FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The first three Notes provide details of the corporate reorganisation, basis of preparation and accounting policies applied in producing these Financial Statements and the critical accounting estimates and judgements therein.
1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Consolidated Financial Statements of Brit PLC and its subsidiaries collectively, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 24 February 2015.
Brit PLC the Company is a limited company, incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, whose shares are publicly traded.
The Groups principal activity is the underwriting of general insurance and reinsurance business.
2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION 2.1 Corporate reorganisation Brit PLC was incorporated as a limited company on 19December2013 and was subsequently re-registered as a public limited company on 24 March 2014.
On 28 March 2014, Brit PLC acquired the entire share capital of the former ultimate holding company of the Group, Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. Brit PLC was introduced as a new parent to the Achilles Insurance Group by the principal investors who were the same before and after the reorganisation.
Brit PLCs ordinary shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2014.
On the basis that the transaction was effected by creating a new parent that is itself not a business, the transaction is considered to be outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
It has therefore been accounted for using the pooling of interest method as a continuation of the existing Group.
The result is that the Consolidated Financial Statements of Brit PLC are the same as those previously presented by Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. except for the share capital being that of Brit PLC.
2.2 Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for financial investments and derivative contracts which have been measured at fair value.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
Certain amounts recorded in the financial information include estimates and assumptions made by management, particularly about insurance liability reserves, investment valuations, interest rates and other factors.
Actual results may differ from the estimates made.
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings collectively, the Group made up to the same accounting date.
132 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION continued The Group has adopted the following new standards and amendments to standards with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014: a Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and also clarify the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting.
These amendments have no impact on the Group.
b Recoverable Amount Disclosures for NonFinancial Assets Amendments to IAS 36 These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement on the disclosures required under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
In addition, these amendments require disclosure of the recoverable amounts for the assets or cash-generating units CGUs for which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed during the period.
Theseamendments have no impact on the Group.
c Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 39 These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
d IFRIC 21 Levies IFRIC 21 was endorsed by the EU for periods commencing on or after 17 June 2014.
Earlier application was permitted and hence the Group has early adopted the IFRIC in accordance with the IASB effective date of 1 January 2014.
It is applicable to all levies imposed by governments under legislation, other than outflows that are within the scope of other standards.
The interpretation clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy no earlier than when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs.
It also clarifies that a levy liability is accrued progressively only if the activity that triggers payment occurs over a period of time, in accordance with the relevant legislation.
IFRIC 21 has no impact on the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements, the following standards which have not been applied in these Financial Statements were in issue but not yet effective: Standard Effective IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 2014 Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue From Contracts With Customers 2014 Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2013 Periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018 In November 2009, as part of the phased project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reconsiders the classification and measurement of financial assets.
This standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group plans to assess the impact of this standard on its Financial Statements in conjunction with the revised standard on IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts which is expected to be effective from no earlier than 2018.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of the other standards in future periods will have no material impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 133 2.3 Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups participation in Lloyds syndicates assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
Subsidiaries are those entities including structured entities that an investor controls, when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Financial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared up to 31Decembereach year.
Consolidation adjustments are made to convert subsidiary accounts from local GAAP into IFRS so as to remove any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date control is transferred from the Group.
All inter-company balances, profits and transactions are eliminated.
2.4 Product classification Insurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The significance of insurance risk is dependent on both the probability of an insured event and the magnitude of its potential effect to the policyholder.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this period.
Where the Group has issued financial guarantee contracts these have been regarded as insurance contracts and have been accounted for in accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.
1 Insurance contracts a Premiums Premiums written relate to business incepted during the year, together with any differences between booked premiums for prior years and those previously accrued, and include estimates of premiums due but not yet receivable or notified, less an allowance for cancellations.
Premiums are accreted to the income statement on a pro rata basis over the term of the related policy, except for those contracts where the period of risk differs significantly from the contract period.
In these circumstances, premiums are recognised over the period of risk in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided.
Reinstatement premiums are accreted to the income statement on a pro rata basis over the term of the original policy to which it relates.
Premiums are shown net of premium taxes and other levies on premiums.
Pipeline premium estimates are typically based on using standard actuarial projection techniques e. g. Basic Chain Ladder on the key assumption that historical development of premiums is representative of future development.
b Profit commissions and overriding commissions receivable Profit commission income arising from whole account quota share contracts is recognised when the economic benefits are highly probable.
Profit commissions and overrider commissions are netted off commission costs which are included within the acquisition cost line in the income statement.
c Deferred acquisition costs Commission and other acquisition costs incurred during the financial period that are related to securing new insurance contracts and or renewing existing insurance contracts, but which relate to subsequent financial periods, are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue margins.
Deferred acquisition costs are capitalised and amortised over the life of the policy to which they relate on a basis consistent with the earnings pattern of that policy.
d Claims incurred Claims incurred comprise claims and claims handling costs paid in the year and changes in the outstanding claims provisions, including provisions for claims incurred but not reported and related expenses, together with any adjustments to claims from prior years.
Claims handling costs are mainly those external costs related to the negotiation and settlement of claims.
134 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION continued e Outstanding claims provisions Outstanding claims represent the estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims including direct and indirect claims settlement costs arising from events which have occurred up to the date of the statement of financial position, including provision for claims incurred but not reported, less any amounts paid in respect of those claims.
The Group does not discount its liabilities for unpaid claims, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with certainty at the date of the statement of financial position.
f Provision for unearned premiums The proportion of written premiums that relate to unexpired terms of policies in force at the date of the statement of financial position is deferred as a provision for unearned premiums, generally calculated on a time apportioned basis.
The movement in the provision is taken to the income statement in order that revenue is recognised over the period of the risk.
g Liability adequacy tests At the date of each statement of financial position, liability adequacy tests are performed, to ensure the adequacy of unearned premiums net of related deferred acquisition costs, employing the current estimates of future cash flows under its insurance contracts.
If, as a result of these tests, the carrying amount of the Groups insurance liabilities is found to be inadequate in comparison to the value of these future cash flows, the deficiency is charged to the income statement for the period by establishing an unexpired risk provision.
The tests are performed at a whole account and portfolio level at the statement of financial position date to ensure the estimated costs of future claims and related deferred acquisition costs do not exceed the unearned premium provision.
h Reinsurance The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business.
Premiums and claims on reinsurance assumed are recognised in the income statement along the same basis as direct business, taking into account the product classification.
Reinsurance premiums ceded and reinsurance recoveries on claims incurred are included in the respective expense and income accounts.
Reinsurance outwards premiums are earned according to the nature of the cover.
Losses occurring during policies are earned evenly over the policy period.
Risks attaching policies are expensed on the same basis as the inwards business being protected.
Reinstatement premiums on both inwards and outwards business are accreted to the income statement on a pro rata basis over the term of the original policy to which they relate.
Reinsurance assets include amounts recoverable from reinsurance companies for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, and ceded unearned premiums.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are calculated with reference to the claims liability associated with the reinsured risks.
Revenues and expenses arising from reinsurance agreements are therefore recognised in accordance with the underlying risk of the business reinsured.
Gains or losses on buying reinsurance are recognised immediately in the income statement.
If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces its carrying amount accordingly, and will immediately recognise the impairment loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset will be deemed to be impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the asset, that the Group may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the contract, and that the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised immediately in the income statement and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position as appropriate.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 135 i Syndicate assets and liabilities For each managed syndicate on which the Group participates, the Groups proportion of the syndicates assets and liabilities has been reflected in its consolidated statement of financial position.
Syndicate assets are held subject to trust deeds for the benefit of the syndicates insurance creditors.
2 Revenue recognition a Fee and commission income Fee and commission income consists mainly of administration and broking fees charged to third parties.
It is recognised in the accounting period in which the service is rendered by reference to completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
b Investment return Investment income comprises all interest and dividend income and realised and unrealised gains and losses less investment management fees.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Realised gains and losses on investments are calculated as the difference between net sales proceeds and cost and are recognised when the sale transaction occurs.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments are calculated as the difference between the valuation at the date of the statement of financial position and the valuation at the last statement of financial position or purchase price, if acquired during the year.
Unrealised investment gains and losses include adjustments in respect of unrealised gains and losses recorded in prior years which have been realised during the year and are reported as realised gains and losses in the current years income statement.
3 Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the contract.
A financial asset is derecognised when either the contractual rights to the assets cash flows expire, or the asset is transferred and the transfer qualifies for derecognition under a combination of risks and rewards and control tests.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished which is when the obligation in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases and sales are purchases and sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
4 Investments The Group has designated on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes investments at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
This is in accordance with the Groups documented investment strategy and consistent with investment risk being assessed on a portfolio basis.
Information relating to investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded in active markets which are the principal markets or the most advantageous markets that maximise the amount that would be received to sell the asset or minimises the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability are based on quoted market bid and ask price for both financial assets and financial liabilities respectively.
136 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION continued The fair value of financial assets and liabilities that are not traded in an active market, including over-the-counter derivatives, is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date.
Valuation techniques include the use of comparable recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and others commonly used by market participants and which make the maximum use of observable inputs.
Gains and losses on investments designated as FVTPL are recognised through the income statement.
Interest income from investments in bonds and short-term investments is recognised at the effective interest rate.
Interest receivable is shown separately in the statement of financial position based on the debt instruments stated rates of interest.
5 Derivatives Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange contracts, forward rate agreements, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value, which represents their cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of recognising movements in this value in the income statement.
Fair values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or over-the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative contracts are individually negotiated between contracting parties and include forwards and swaps.
Derivatives are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial instruments.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and documented under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
The notional or contractual amounts associated with derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions.
6 Intangible assets a Syndicate participation rights Lloyds syndicate participation rights that have been acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary are initially recognised at fair value.
They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as they will provide benefits over an indefinite future period and are therefore not subject to an annual amortisation charge.
The continuing value of the capacity is reviewed for impairment annually by reference to the expected future profit streams to be earned from the respective syndicate, with any impairment in value being charged to the income statement.
b Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internal development costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are also capitalised where the cost can be measured reliably, the Group intends to and has adequate resources to complete development and the computer software will generate future economic benefits.
All computer software costs are finite life assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, not exceeding a period of five years.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 137 c Trade names and distribution channels Trade names and distribution channels that have been acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary are initially recognised at fair value.
They are deemed to be finite life assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic lives, as follows: Trade names 5 years Distribution channels 15 years d Renewal rights Renewal rights are recognised at fair value upon acquisition and amortised straight line over their expected useful lives which varies between two and four years.
7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write-off the cost over their estimated useful economic lives on a straight-line basis having regard to the residual value of each asset, as follows: Office refurbishment costs, office machinery, furniture and equipment 5 years Computers, servers, data storage devices, networks and other IT infrastructure 3 years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed at the date of each statement of financial position and adjusted if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Costs for repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
8 Impairment Syndicate participation rights are not subjected to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment as they are an asset with an indefinite useful life.
Other assets, except for assets arising from insurance contracts, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value of an asset is impaired, it is reduced to the recoverable amount by an immediate charge to the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is based on discounting cash flows at the Groups weighted average cost of capital which is loaded where significant uncertainties exist.
Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Impairment reviews are made by comparing carrying value to recoverable amount.
9 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of acquisition.
138 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION continued 2.5.
10 Income taxes Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an item which is recognised in equity.
a Current income tax Current income tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for the period using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the date of the statement of financial position and any adjustment to the tax payable in respect of previous periods.
The Group calculates current income tax using current income tax rates.
b Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the date of the statement of financial position and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
11 Employee benefits The Group operates a defined contribution group personal pension plan and several other defined contribution schemes.
It also makes payments into a number of personal money purchase pension plans.
Contributions in respect of these schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
The asset recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the fair value of the scheme assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation which is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
The discount rate is based on market yields at the reporting date of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity which approximate to those of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 139 The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability asset.
Past service costs arising in the period are recognised as an expense at the earlier of the date when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and the date when the Group recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
The Group recognises an accrual in respect of profit-sharing and bonus plans where a contractual obligation to employees exists or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
12 Sharebased payments The fair value of equity instruments granted under share-based payment plans are recognised as an expense and spread over the vesting period of the instrument.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards made at the grant date, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
At the date of each statement of financial position, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The fair value of the awards and ultimate expense are not adjusted on a change in market vesting conditions during the vesting period.
13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit after tax attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share requires that the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These arise from awards made under share-based incentive schemes.
Share awards with performance conditions attaching to them are not considered to be dilutive unless these conditions have been met at the reporting date.
Shares held in employee share trusts are excluded from the weighted average number of shares in issue until they have vested unconditionally with the employees.
14 Own shares Where the Company purchases its own share capital, the consideration paid is shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of own shares and any consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
15 Provisions and contingencies Provisions are liabilities with uncertainties in the amount or timing of payments.
Provisions are recognised if there is a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made at the date of the statement of financial position.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events or a present obligation that is not recognised as it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation or the amount of obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
A contingent liability is disclosed but not recognised.
16 Leased assets Where the Group enters into an operating lease, the payments net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
An operating lease is one in which the risks and rewards remain with the lessor.
140 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PREPARATION continued 2.5.
17 Foreign currency translation Items included in the Financial Statements of the parent and subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency which is the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
The Group presents its Consolidated Financial Statements in Sterling which is the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency for each entity using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or at the average rate for the period when this is a reasonable approximation.
Substantially all of the Groups operations have Sterling as their functional currency.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at period end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences on translation are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost denominated in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
18 Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Fair value is normally determined by reference to the fair value of the proceeds received.
Any difference between the initial carrying amount and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
19 Segmental reporting An operating segment is a component of an entity that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision-maker and for which discrete financial information is available.
20 Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
21 Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liability simultaneously.
22 Dividend and capital distributions Dividend and capital distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which they are declared and appropriately approved.
23 Collateral The Group receives collateral from certain reinsurers and pledges collateral where required for regulatory purposes.
Collateral received in the form of cash is recognised as an asset on the statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for the repayment.
Non-cash collateral received is not recognised on the statement of financial position.
Collateral pledged is not derecognised from the statement of financial position unless the Group defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 141 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3.1 Introduction The Group makes various assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
Estimates and judgements are regularly re-evaluated and are based on a combination of historical experience and other factors, including exposure analysis, expectations of future experience and expert judgement.
3.2 The ultimate liability arising from claims made under insurance contracts The estimation of the ultimate liability arising from claims made under insurance contracts is the Groups most critical accounting estimate.
There are several sources of uncertainty that need to be considered in the estimate of the amounts that the Group will ultimately pay to settle such claims.
Significant areas requiring estimation and judgement include: Estimates of the amount of any liability in respect of claims notified but not settled and incurred but not reported claims IBNR to be included within provisions for inwards insurance and reinsurance contracts: The corresponding estimate of the amount of outwards reinsurance recoveries which will become due as a result of the estimated claims on inwards business: The recoverability of amounts due from reinsurers: and Estimates of the proportion of exposure which has expired in the period as represented by the earned proportion of premiums written.
The assumptions used and the manner in which these estimates and judgements are made are set out below, including the reserving process for the estimation of gross, and net of reinsurance, ultimate premiums and claims: Quarterly statistical data is produced in respect of gross and net premiums and claims paid and incurred : Projections of ultimate premiums, reinstatement premiums and claims are produced by the internal actuarial department using standard actuarial projection techniques e. g. Basic Chain Ladder, Bornhuetter-Ferguson, Initial Expected Loss Ratio.
The Basic Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson projection methods are based on the key assumption that historical development of premiums and claims is representative of future development.
Claims inflation is taken into account in the initial expected loss ratio selections but is otherwise assumed to be in line with historical inflation trends, unless explicit adjustments for other drivers of inflation such as legislative developments are deemed appropriate.
Some classes of business have characteristics which do not necessarily lend themselves easily to statistical estimation techniques, e. g. due to low data volumes.
In such cases, for example, a policy-by-policy review may also be carried out to supplement statistical estimates: In the event of catastrophe losses, and prior to detailed claims information becoming available, claims provision estimates are compiled using a combination of output from specific recognised modelling software and detailed reviews of contracts exposed to the event in question: The initial ultimate selections derived by the actuarial department, along with the underlying key assumptions and methodology, are discussed with class underwriters, divisional underwriting directors and the claims team at Pre-Committee meetings.
The actuarial department may make adjustments to the initial ultimates following these meetings: Following the completion of the Pre-Committee meetings and peer review process within the actuarial department, the ultimate selections actuarial estimate, assumptions, methodology and uncertainties are presented to the Reserving Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and reporting to the Executive Management Committee, for discussion and debate: Following review of the actuarial estimate, the Reserving Committee recommends the Committee estimate to be adopted in the Financial Statements: and Claims provisions are subject to independent external actuarial review at least annually.
142 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The results of the independent external actuarial review are presented to both the Reserving Committee and the Audit Committee with key assumptions, methodologies and uncertainties highlighted.
The purpose of the external review is to provide both committees with an independent actuarial view of reserve requirements compared to the recommendations of the internal actuarial department and provide additional information on which to base the establishment of the reserves for the Group.
The estimates and judgements are applied in line with the overall reserving philosophy and seek to state the claims provisions on a best estimate, undiscounted basis.
A management risk margin is also applied over and above the actuarial best estimate to allow for the inherent uncertainty within the best estimate reserve position.
In addition to claims provisions, the reserve for future loss adjustment expenses is also subject to estimation with consideration being given to the level of internal and third-party loss adjustment expenses incurred annually.
The estimated loss adjustment expenses are expressed as a percentage of gross claims reserves and the reasonableness of the estimate is assessed through benchmarking.
Further judgements are made as to the recoverability of amounts due from reinsurers.
Provisions for bad debts are made specifically, based on the solvency of reinsurers, internal and external ratings, payment experience with them and any disputes of which the Group is aware.
The carrying value at the date of the statement of financial position of gross claims reported and loss adjustment expenses and claims incurred but not reported were 2,057.9m 2013:2,097.7m as set out in Note 21 to the accounts.
The amount of reinsurance recoveries estimated at that date is 445.4m 2013:374.0m.
3.3 Pipeline premiums Written premiums include pipeline premiums of 292.2m 2013:234.4m which represent future premiums receivable in respect of in-force insurance contracts.
Pipeline premium estimates are typically based on standard actuarial projection techniques e. g. Basic Chain Ladder on the key assumption that historical development of premiums is representative of future development.
3.4 Intangible assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Determining the assumptions used in the test requires estimation.
The indefinite useful life intangible assets of the Group consist of syndicate participation rights and their carrying amount at the date of the statement of financial position was 45.4m 2013:45.4m.
For further information, refer to Note 17.
3.5 Financial investments Financial investments are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value.
The carrying amount of financial investments at the date of the statement of financial position was 2,259.8m 2013:2,275.9m.
Determining the fair value of certain investments requires estimation.
The Group values investments using designated methodologies, estimations and assumptions.
These securities, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement of financial position, represent the majority of the invested assets.
The measurement basis for assets carried at fair value is categorised into a fair value hierarchy in accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level one : the middle priority to fair values other than quoted prices based on observable market information level two : and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market participants would normally use level three.
At 31 December 2014, financial investments amounting to 202.6m 2013:331.7m were classified as level three.
The classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.
Any change to investment valuations may affect our results of operations and reported financial condition.
For further information, refer to Note 23.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 143 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES This Note provides details of key risks that the Group is exposed to and explains the Groups strategies and the role of management in mitigating these risks.
4.1 Insurance risk Insurance risk arises from the possibility of an adverse financial result due to actual experience being different from that expected when an insurance product was designed and priced.
The actual performance of insurance contracts is subject to the inherent uncertainty in the occurrence, timing and amount of the final insurance liabilities.
This is the principal risk the Group is exposed to as the Groups primary function is to underwrite insurance contracts.
The risk arises due to the possibility of insurance contracts being underpriced, under-reserved or subject to unforeseen catastrophe claims.
The areas of insurance risk discussed below include underwriting including aggregate exposure management, reinsurance and reserving.
1 Underwriting risk a Introduction This is the risk that insurance premiums will not be sufficient to cover the future losses and associated expenses.
It arises from the fluctuations in the frequency and severity of financial losses incurred through the underwriting process by the Group as a result of unpredictable events.
The Group is also exposed to the risks resulting from its underwriters accepting risks for premiums which are insufficient to cover the ultimate claims which result from such policies.
This risk is considered to be heightened in the current competitive underwriting environment which is resulting in significant downwards pressure on premium rates.
This trend in premium rates has been factored into the Groups pricing models and risk management tools and is continually monitored to assess whether any corrective action is required.
Additional controls over the underwriting strategy are described in the section below.
The Group writes all of its business through Lloyds and therefore can take advantage of Lloyds centralised infrastructure and service support.
Lloyds also has an established global distribution framework, with extensive licensing agreements providing the Group access to over 200 territories.
Exclusively using the Lloyds platform subjects the Group to a number of resulting underwriting risks.
The Group relies on the efficient functioning of the Lloyds market and if for any reason, Brit Syndicates Ltd is restricted or otherwise unable to write insurance through the Lloyds market, this would have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
In particular, any damage to the brand or reputation of Lloyds, increase in tax levies imposed on Lloyds participants or deterioration in Lloyds asset base when compared with its liabilities may have a material adverse effect on the Groups ability to write new business.
BSL also benefits from the ability to write business based on the Lloyds financial rating, which allows the Group to write more business as part of the Lloyds platform.
A downgrade in Lloyds financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on the Group.
b Controls over underwriting strategy The Board sets the Groups underwriting strategy for accepting and managing underwriting risk.
The PLC Underwriting Committee chaired by an independent non-executive Director, meets quarterly and is responsible for the management of underwriting risk in line with the RMF using specific measurable targets actions and any breaches are reported to Executive Management, the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board.
The UK Underwriting Committee meets monthly to drive the underwriting strategy and to monitor performance against the plans.
The assessment of underwriting performance is all-encompassing applying underwriting KPIs, technical pricing MI, premium monitoring, delegated underwriting operations and claims MI.
The risks are managed by the committee in line with the underwriting risk policy and within the risk tolerance set by the Board.
The underwriting risk policy also sets out a number of controls, which are summarised below.
144 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued The Group carries out a detailed annual business planning process for each of its underwriting units.
The resulting plans set out premium, territorial and aggregate limits and reinsurance protection thresholds for all classes of business and represent a key tool in managing concentration risk.
Performance against the plans is monitored on a regular basis by the Underwriting Committee as well as by the Boards of the regulated entities.
A dedicated exposure management team also performs Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis on a regular basis to ensure that the Groups net losses remain within its risk appetite.
The Group has developed underwriting guidelines, limits of authority and business plans which are binding upon all staff authorised to underwrite.
These are detailed and specific to underwriters and classes of business.
Gross and net line size limits are in place for each class of business with additional restrictions in place on catastrophe exposed business.
A proportion of the Groups insurance risks are written by third parties under delegated underwriting authorities, with the remaining being written through individual risk acceptances or through reinsurance treaties.
The third parties are closely vetted in advance and are subject to tight reporting requirements.
In addition, the performance of these contracts is closely monitored by underwriters and regular audits are carried out.
The technical pricing framework ensures that the pricing process in the Group is appropriate.
It ensures pricing methodologies are demonstrable and transparent and that technical or benchmark prices are assessed for each risk.
The underwriting and actuarial functions work together to maintain the pricing models and assess the difference between technical price and actual price.
The framework also ensures that sufficient data is recorded and checked by underwriters to enable the Group to maintain an effective rate monitoring process.
Compliance is checked through both a peer review process and, periodically, by the Groups Internal Audit department, which is entirely independent of the underwriting units.
In order to limit risk, the number of reinstatements per policy is limited, deductibles are imposed, policy exclusions are applied and whenever allowed by statute, maximum indemnity limits are put in place per insured event.
c Underwriting risk profile The core insurance portfolio of property, energy and casualty covers a variety of largely uncorrelated events and also provides some protection against the underwriting cycle as different classes are at different points in the underwriting cycle.
The underwriting portfolio is managed to target top quartile underwriting performance and the mix of business is continually adjusted based on the current environment including the current pricing strength of each class.
This assessment is conducted as part of the business planning and strategy process which operates annually and uses inputs from the technical pricing framework.
The business plan is approved by the Board and is monitored monthly.
The Group underwrites a well-diversified portfolio across multiple regions and classes.
While underlying risk and the policyholder may be situated anywhere in the world, more than 90% of the GWP of the Group in 2014 was sourced in London.
The other business written by the syndicate is sourced through a wholly-owned service company in the United States, which accounted for 7.8% of the Groups annual GWP in 2014.
The Group has also recently started writing business through the Lloyds China Platform and from its office in Bermuda which opened in September 2013.
In 2014, 21.3% of the Groups GWP was reinsured to third parties.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 145 d Geographical concentration of premium The Group enters into policies with policyholders from all over the world, with the underlying risk relating to premiums spread worldwide.
This allows the Group to benefit from a wide geographic diversification of risk.
The three principal locations of the Groups policyholders are the United States, UK and Ireland and mainland Europe.
The concentration of insurance premium before and after reinsurance by the location of the underlying risk is summarised below: Gross Net premiums premiums written written m m 2014 United States 501.4 401.9 United Kingdom 96.7 72.6 Europe excluding UK 84.0 51.9 Other including worldwide 620.0 498.5 Total 1,302.1 1,024.9 2013 United States 421.5 336.6 United Kingdom 93.0 68.3 Europe excluding UK 61.8 41.8 Other including worldwide 609.4 509.6 Total 1,185.7 956.3 The nature of the London Market business is such that the insureds and reinsureds are often operating on a multi-territory or worldwide basis and hence coverage is often provided on a worldwide basis.
Premiums written on a multi-territory or worldwide basis are included in Other in the table above.
e Portfolio mix The Groups third party underwriting takes place through the syndicate underwriting business in a wide variety of business lines.
The business lines can be broken down into four principal categories: i short-tail direct insurance: ii long-tail direct insurance: iii short-tail reinsurance: and iv long-tail reinsurance.
The breakdown of premium before reinsurance by principal lines of business is summarised below: 2014 2013 gross gross premiums premiums written written m % m % Short-tail direct insurance Pr operty, marine, energy, accident and health, BGSU, aerospace, terrorism and political 717.6 55% 599.2 50% Long-tail direct insurance Professional lines, specialty lines, specialist liability 339.2 26% 303.9 26% Short-tail reinsurance Property treaty 109.6 8% 139.6 12% Long-tail reinsurance Casualty treaty 135.7 10% 141.4 12% Other Other underwriting and other corporate 1% 1.6 1% Total 1,302.1 100% 1,185.7 100% The Group underwrites a business mix of both insurance and reinsurance, long and short-tail business across a number of geographic areas which results in a diversification of the Groups portfolio.
The business mix is monitored on an ongoing basis with particular focus on the short-tail vs. long-tail split and the proportion of delegated underwriting business.
Long-tail business makes up 36.5% of the portfolio at 31 December 2014 2013: 37.4% and delegated underwriting represents 38.0% 2013: 41.8%.
Underwriting risk is mainly driven by the syndicates US catastrophe exposure.
Casualty Treaty is also a driver due to its long-tail exposure.
146 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued i Shorttail direct insurance Short-tail insurance generally refers to lines of business where the claims are typically settled within a short time of the claim being made: therefore, they are typically classes where a large element of the claims is property damage.
The Groups short-tail business consists of six principal lines of business: Property Property coverage including business interruption on a worldwide basis and delegated underwriting business predominantly in North America.
Marine Coverage for cargo including specie and fine art, hull including yacht and marine liability.
Energy Coverage for upstream offshore and midstream activities related to oil and gasproduction.
US specialty Public and non-profit package on both a self-insured retention SIR and first dollar basis: property and liability package business for US criminal justice service operations: property direct and facultative reinsurance.
Accident and health Coverage for personal accident including kidnap and ransom, bloodstock and contingency.
Terrorism, political and aerospace Coverage for terr orism including aviation war, political and credit risks, and satellites atboth launch and in-orbit.
The key risks on short-tail business are exposures to catastrophe claims, particularly US windstorms, earthquakes and terrorist events.
The property lines are also exposed to an increased frequency of fire and weather-related events.
Coverage on energy is provided in respect of physical damage and business interruption loss of income and would be exposed to large individual claims and extreme catastrophe losses.
Within US specialty, the syndicate writes business in property direct and facultative reinsurance exposed to wind, earthquake and flood catastrophe claims as well as expanding in a number of niche casualty lines.
Accident and health offers further diversification due to low correlation with other business lines.
Personal accident has the potential to suffer from large losses due to a high concentration of multiple deaths from a catastrophe or large claims from highly valued insured individuals.
Medical expense claims are subject to high inflationary costs and may experience a high claim frequency.
Both bloodstock and contingency classes have exposure to multiple claims from a single event location.
Terrorism, aerospace and political classes have key exposures to single catastrophe events and terrorist events or a series of losses.
ii Longtail direct insurance Long-tail insurance refers to insurance where on average the claims are not settled for several years after the expiry of the policy.
The long-tail direct insurance business can be categorised into two principal lines of business: Casualty Includes cover for financial institutions, legal expenses, directors and officers, and professional lines.
Specialist liability Cover for employers liability and public liability both in the UK and internationally but excluding the US.
Key exposures on casualty lines lie with increasing claim frequency due to global recessionary events or international systemic malpractice.
The specialist liability portfolio is subject to large losses resulting in bodily injury claims.
This portfolio is also exposed to the risk of latent claims arising from risks which were not envisaged at the time of writing the policy.
iii Shorttail reinsurance The Groups short-tail reinsurance business centres around property treaty.
This typically covers catastrophic loss accumulation or individual large loss ceded by insurance and reinsurance company clients.
The key exposures which property treaty is exposed to are US windstorms and Californian earthquakes.
Property treaty also has exposures to Japanese earthquakes and European windstorms.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 147 Property treaty Catastrophe excess of loss and risk excess of loss reinsurance.
iv Longtail reinsurance Introduction The Groups long-tail reinsurance business centres around casualty treaty.
Core lines of business include Genral Liability, Professional Indemnity Financial Institutions Directors and Officers, Workers Compensation, Medical Malpractice, Accident & Health, and other accident classes including Property Terror.
Casualty treaty Casualty and accident treaty reinsurance.
Worldwide portfolio, written on excess of loss basis currently only one specialist quota share contract written.
The largest regional block is the US and Canada.
The account is amix of risk, catastrophe and clash business.
The key risks this division is exposed to include exposure to man-made catastrophe claims such as terrorism, increased claim activity in the event of an economic downturn and the potential for latent claims which were not foreseen at the time the policies were underwritten.
This division contains the longest tailed liabilities the Group holds, i. e. there can be a significant delay between the notification and final settlement of a claim.
This delay can result in the final settlement being subject to significant claims inflation.
Aggregate exposure management The Group is exposed to the potential of large claims from natural catastrophe events.
The Groups catastrophe risk appetite is set by the Board who may adjust limits to reflect market conditions.
Overall, the Group has a maximum catastrophe risk tolerance for major catastrophe events as measured through RDS losses such as a Florida Miami windstorm of 30% of Brit PLC Group level net tangible assets.
This equates to a maximum acceptable loss after all reinsurance of 229.7m at 31 December 2014.
The Group closely monitors aggregation of exposure to natural catastrophe events against agreed risk appetites using stochastic catastrophe modelling tools, along with knowledge of the business, historical loss information and geographical accumulations.
Analysis and monitoring also measures the effectiveness of the Groups reinsurance programmes.
Stress and scenario tests are also run, such as Lloyds and internally developed Realistic Disaster Scenarios RDS.
The selection of the RDS is adjusted with development of the business.
Below are the key RDS losses to the Group for all classes combined unaudited : Modelled Modelled Group loss at Group loss at 1 October 2014 1 October 2013 Estimated Note 1 Note 1 industry loss Gross Net Gross Net m m m m m Gulf of Mexico windstorm 71,474 449 110 349 149 Florida Miami windstorm 80,128 346 82 262 83 US North East windstorm 50,000 388 83 304 133 San Francisco earthquake 50,000 382 113 273 89 Japan earthquake 26,745 117 86 93 51 Japan windstorm 8,024 55 46 47 34 European windstorm 17,829 140 80 148 79 Note 1: At 31 December 2014 exchange rates.
148 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued Actual results may differ materially from the losses above given the significant uncertainties within model assumptions, techniques and simulations applied to calculate these event loss estimates.
There could also be unmodelled losses which result in actual losses exceeding these figures.
Moreover, the portfolio of insured risks changes dynamically over time.
Sensitivity to changes in net claims ratio The Group profit on ordinary activities before tax is sensitive to an independent 1% change in the net claims ratio excluding the effect of foreign exchange on non-monetary items for each class of business as follows: Movement in profit Movement in profit year ended year ended 31 December 2014 31December2013 m % m % Short-tail direct insurance 5.1 52% 5.0 52% Long-tail direct insurance 2.5 26% 2.1 22% Short-tail reinsurance 0.7 8% 0.9 10% Long-tail reinsurance 1.3 13% 1.4 15% Other 0.1 1% 0.1 1% Total 9.7 100% 9.5 100% Subject to taxation, the impact on shareholders equity would be the same as that on profit following a change in the net claims ratio.
2 Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance to manage its exposure to individual risks and aggregation of risks arising from individual large claims and catastrophe events.
This allows the Group to mitigate exposure to insurance losses against the risk appetite, reduce volatility of reported results and protect capital.
Proportional quota share reinsurance is purchased to provide protection against claims arising either from individual large claims or aggregation of losses.
Quota share reinsurance is also used to manage the Groups net exposure to classes of business where the Groups risk appetite is lower than the efficient operating scale of the class of business on a gross of reinsurance basis.
These placements are reviewed on the basis of market conditions.
The Group also has in place a comprehensive programme of excess of loss reinsurances to protect itself from severe size or frequency of losses: Facultative reinsurance is used to reduce risk relating to individual contracts.
The amount of cover bought varies by class of business.
Facultative reinsurance is also used as a tool to manage the net line size on individual risks to within tolerance.
Risk excess of loss reinsurance is used to protect a range of individual inwards contracts which could give rise to individual large claims.
The optimal net retention per risk is assessed for each class of business given the Groups risk appetite during the business planning exercise.
An aggregate catastrophe excess of loss cover is in place to protect the Group against combined property claims from multiple policies resulting from catastrophe events.
This is supplemented by specific covers for peril regions, catastrophe swaps and industry loss warrantees where they are a cost-efficient means to ensure that the Group remains within its catastrophe risk appetite.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 149 Given the fundamental importance of reinsurance protection to the Groups risk management, the Group has in place internal controls and processes to ensure that the reinsurance arrangements provide appropriate protection of capital and maintain our ability to meet policyholder obligations.
The Head of Outwards Reinsurance, the CEO of Brit Global Specialty and Chief Risk Officer propose external reinsurance arrangements with input from class underwriters for class level reinsurance.
The CEO of Brit Global Specialty proposes reinsurance arrangements with BIG.
All reinsurance purchases must be signed off by the Groups Underwriting Committee.
The Head of Outwards Reinsurance monitors and reports on the placement of reinsurance protections.
The Group remains exposed to a number of risks relating to its reinsurance programme: It is possible for extremely severe catastrophe losses to exhaust the reinsurance purchased.
Any losses exceeding the reinsurance protection would be borne by the Group.
Some parts of the programme have limited reinstatements which limit the amount that may be recovered from second or subsequent claims.
If the entirety of the cover is exhausted, it may not be possible to purchase additional reinsurance at a reasonable price.
A dispute may arise with a reinsurer which may mean the recoveries received are lower than anticipated.
These risks are managed through a combination of techniques and controls including exposure management, capital modelling and internal actuarial review of outward reinsurance costs.
The counterparty risk in relation to reinsurance purchased is managed by the Groups Credit Committee.
This is further discussed in the credit risk section below.
3 Reserving risk Reserving risk arises as the actual cost of losses for policyholder obligations incurred before 31 December 2014 will differ from the established reserves due to inaccurate assumptions or unforeseen circumstances.
This is a key risk for the Group as the reserves for unpaid losses represent the largest component of the Groups liabilities and are inherently uncertain.
The Reserving Committee is responsible for the management of Syndicate 2987s reserving risk, and the BIG Management Committee performs a similar function for BIG.
The Group has a rigorous process for establishing reserves for insurance claim liabilities and a number of controls are used to mitigate reserving risk.
The reserving process starts with controls over claims data which ensure complete and accurate recording of all paid and notified claims.
Claims staff validate policy terms and conditions, adjust claims and investigate suspicious or disputed claims in accordance with the Groups claims policy.
Case reserves are set for notified claims using the experience of specialist claims staff, underwriters and external experts where necessary.
While the case reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet the claims amount when it is settled, incurred but not reported IBNR claims require additional reserves.
This is particularly the case for the longest tailed classes of business where the final settlement can occur several years after the claim occurred.
Actuarial triangulation techniques are employed by the Groups experienced actuaries to establish the IBNR reserve.
These techniques project IBNR reserves based on historical development of paid and incurred claims by underwriting year.
For the most uncertain claims, the triangulation techniques are supplemented by additional methods to ensure the established reserve is appropriate.
The actuarial team work closely with other business functions such as underwriting, claims and exposure management to ensure that they have a full understanding of the emerging claims experience across the Group.
Further details on the actuarial methods used can be found in Note 21.
The Groups reserving policy sets out the approach to estimating claims provisions and is designed to produce accurate and reliable estimates that are consistent over time and across classes of business.
The actuarial best estimate set out in the policy is subject to sign-off by the Reserving Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and reporting to the Executive Management Committee, as part of the formal governance arrangements for the Group.
The estimate agreed by the committees is used as a basis for the Group Financial Statements.
Amanagement risk margin is also applied over and above the actuarial best estimate to allow for the inherent uncertainty within the best estimate reserve position and wider inherent uncertainty across the economic and insurance environment.
This margin increases the reserves reflected in the Group Financial Statements above the mean expectation.
Finally, the reserves in the Financial Statements are presented to the Audit Committee for recommendation to the Board who are responsible for the final sign-off.
The reserves are subject to an independent external actuarial review at least annually.
150 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued The reserves can be more or less than is required to meet the claims arising from earned business.
The level of uncertainty varies significantly between the classes written by the Group but typically is highest for those classes where there are significant delays in the settlement of the final claim amount.
More specifically, the key areas of uncertainty within the Groups reserves are considered to be claims from the casualty treaty and specialty liability classes.
The issues contributing to this heightened uncertainty are common to all entities which write such business.
Further details on the reserve profile and claims development tables can be found in Note 21.
1 Introduction This section describes the Groups approach to managing its investment risk, from both a quantitative and a qualitative perspective.
Investment risk includes market risk which is covered in section 4.3, investment credit risk which is covered in section 4.4 and liquidity risk which is covered in section 4.5.
2 Investment governance framework Investment risk is managed in line with the elements of the Group Risk Management Framework RMF identification, measurement and management.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the investment strategy, including defining the amount of risk tolerance.
This is achieved through investment policies, guidelines and the Groups strategic asset allocation, by which the assets are managed, which reflect the risk appetite and the business strategy of the Group.
The Groups strategic asset allocation is discussed is section 4.2.
The Investment Committee has been mandated to review, advise and make recommendations to the Board on investment strategy with a view to optimising the Groups investment performance.
The Investment Committee can assign the management of these assets to external investment and fund managers as well as to the internal investment team.
The Risk Oversight Committee ensures that the investment risk is managed within the framework and also reports to the Board.
An Operational Risk Working Group oversees the operational risk that is relevant to the investment management function.
Monthly information is provided covering portfolio composition, performance, forecasting and the results of stress and scenario tests.
Any operational issues and breaches to the Risk Appetite Framework are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board quarterly.
3 Risk tolerance Investment risk tolerances are set by the Board, defining the Groups appetite to investments earnings risk, solvency risk due purely to investment, currency risk and liquidity risk.
The appetite to these elements of investment risk is derived from the overall risk appetite and business strategy of the Group and reflects a number of factors, including the current and expected economic climate, capital management strategy, liquidity needs and asset liability matching ALM policy.
The investment risk tolerance helps determine the strategic asset allocation.
Risk metrics are monitored and reported on regularly to ensure that performance is within the Board-approved levels, and limits continue to remain appropriate, within the governance framework highlighted above.
4 Strategic asset allocation The strategic asset allocation represents the medium-term target asset allocation across the economic cycle with the aim to optimise risk-adjusted returns.
Funds are allocated across various asset classes defined by type or risk reflecting entity-level considerations and governance matters.
Tactical ranges known as the tactical asset allocation around the asset allocation in the strategic asset allocation provide flexibility to optimise the balance between risk and return.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 151 The strategic asset allocation has been designed and is managed within the constraints of the Groups Credit, Foreign Exchange, Liquidity, and ALM Policies and Guidelines.
The strategic asset allocation, the tactical asset allocation and the investment guidelines form part of the guidelines framework that is set by the Investment Committee and approved by the Board, in line with the Groups risk appetite and business strategy.
5 Solvency matching Assets are considered by both currency and duration profile in relation to the liabilities thereby managing the impact of foreign exchange and interest rate risk on the solvency position.
Under this strategy, the total assets of each Group underwriting entity are sought to be held in currencies in proportion to the currencies in that entitys technical provisions.
The Group seeks to implement this through the use of cash, investments and foreign exchange forward contracts in the respective currencies.
For each Group underwriting entity, a solvency matched duration target is calculated that seeks to minimise the sensitivity of the Group to changes in interest rates impacting its solvency position.
Within the investment guidelines for each entity, limits above and below this solvency matched position are stipulated.
Cash, investments and interest rate derivatives are structured to target appropriate positioning within this range recognising the current yield curve.
6 Investment management The Group outsources investment management where it is believed to be in its best interest.
Where the Group sees fit, investment activities will also be carried out, analysed and monitored by the investment department.
The Group aims to appoint best-in-class managers, targeting their specific area of expertise.
The managers are subject to a rigorous manager selection process.
The Group also monitors and controls its third-party investment managers on an ongoing basis.
Investment management agreements with each internal and external manager document the relevant guidelines and procedures in place to deal with monitoring of performance and controls.
The investment guidelines specify the allowable strategic asset allocations for each investing entity along with the detailed concentration limits surrounding each of the investment portfolios.
The tactical ranges around the asset allocation provide flexibility to optimise the balance between risk and return.
Investment manager agreements are constructed so that in aggregate the investment portfolios are consistent with the parameters set out in the investment guidelines.
The investment guidelines, derived from the strategic asset allocation and tactical asset allocation, issued to fund managers stipulate exposure limits for counterparties, credit quality and subordination levels to help control credit risk.
1 Introduction Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk.
Credit risk on financial investments and cash is covered in the credit risk section.
2 Interest rate risk Introduction Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value and or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its investment portfolio, borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity of the price of these financial exposures is indicated by their respective durations.
This is defined as the modified duration which is the change in the price of the security subject to a 100 basis points parallel shift in interest rates.
The greater the duration of a security, the greater the possible price volatility.
152 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued The banded durations of the Groups financial investments and cash and cash equivalents sensitive to interest rate risk are shown in the table below: 1 year or less 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Equities Total Duration m m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 321.4 321.4 Financial investments 1,222.2 311.2 231.0 468.2 27.2 2,259.8 Total 1,543.6 311.2 231.0 468.2 27.2 2,581.2 At 31December2013 Cash and cash equivalents 315.7 315.7 Financial investments 1,055.7 415.3 251.5 505.8 47.6 2,275.9 Total 1,371.4 415.3 251.5 505.8 47.6 2,591.6 The Group takes into account the duration of its required capital, targeting an investment portfolio duration that, under a variation in interest rates, preserves the solvency ratio of the Group.
The duration of the investment portfolio is then set within an allowable range relative to the targeted duration.
This is achieved by the use of interest rate derivatives.
As the claims liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis, the reported liabilities are not sensitive to changes in interest rates.
This leads to the conflict between targeting a longer duration to protect the solvency position against movements in interest rates, while a shorter duration for the assets will reduce the possible volatility around the income statement.
Sensitivity to changes in bond yields The sensitivity of the profit to the changes in investment yields is set out in the table below.
The analysis is based on the information at 31 December 2014.
2014 2013 Impact on profit before tax m m Increase: 25 basis points 6.8 14.4 50 basis points 13.5 28.7 100 basis points 27.0 57.5 Decrease: 25 basis points 6.8 14.4 50 basis points 13.5 28.7 100 basis points 27.0 57.5 Subject to taxation, the effect on shareholders equity would be the same as the effect on profit.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 153 4.3.
3 Currency risk Introduction Currency risk is the risk that the fair value of assets and liabilities or future cash flows will fluctuate as a result of movements in the rates of foreign exchange.
As the Group reporting currency is Sterling it is exposed to currency risk because it underwrites insurance business internationally, dealing in five main currencies: US dollars, Sterling, Canadian dollars, Euros and Australian dollars.
All other currencies are included as Sterling.
The split of assets and liabilities for each of the Groups main currencies, converted to Sterling, is set out in the table below: GBP US $ conv.
Conversely, reported gains may arise should Sterling weaken.
The Group matches its currency position so holds net assets across a number of currencies.
The Group takes into consideration the underlying currency of its required capital and invests its assets proportionately across these currencies so as to protect the solvency of the Group, and hence capital available for distribution to shareholders, against variation in foreign exchange rates.
As a result, the Group holds a significant proportion of its assets in foreign currency investments.
In part, foreign currency forward contracts are used to achieve the desired exposure to each currency.
From time to time the Group may also choose to utilise options on foreign currency derivatives to mitigate the risk of reported losses due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The degree to which options are used is dependent on the prevailing cost versus the perceived benefit to shareholder value from reducing the chance of a reported loss due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The details of all foreign currency derivatives contracts entered into are given in Note 24.
As a result of the accounting treatment for non-monetary items, the Group may also experience volatility in its income statement due to fluctuations in exchange rates.
In accordance with IFRS, non-monetary items are recorded at original transaction rates and are not revalued at the reporting date.
These items include unearned premiums, deferred acquisition costs and reinsurers share of unearned premiums.
Consequently, a mismatch arises in the income statement between the amount of premium recognised at historical transaction rates, and the related claims that are valued using foreign exchange rates in force at the reporting date.
The Group considers this to be a timing issue which can cause volatility in the income statement.
154 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued Sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates The table below gives an indication of the impact on profit of a percentage movement in the relative strength of Sterling against the value of the US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Euro simultaneously.
2014 2013 Impact on profit before tax m m Sterling weakens: 10% against other currencies 104.1 72.1 20% against other currencies 208.3 144.2 Sterling strengthens: 10% against other currencies 104.1 72.1 20% against other currencies 208.3 144.2 Subject to taxation, the effect on shareholders equity would be the same as the effect on profit.
4 Other price risk Introduction This is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk, whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the individual financial instrument or its issuer, or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
Financial assets and derivatives that are recognised at their fair value are susceptible to losses due to adverse changes in their prices.
This is known as price risk.
Listed investments are recognised in the Financial Statements at quoted bid price.
If the market for the investment is not considered to be active, then the Group establishes fair valuation techniques.
This includes using recent arms length transactions, reference to current fair value of other similar investments, discounted cash flow models and other valuation techniques that are commonly used by market participants.
The prices of fixed and floating rate income securities are predominantly impacted by currency, interest rate and credit risks.
Credit risk on investments is discussed in the following section of this Note.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 155 The Group invests a proportion of its assets in equities and hedge funds.
These investments are limited within the investment guidelines to a diverse, small and manageable part of the Group investment portfolio.
Sensitivity to changes in other price risk The sensitivity of the profit to the changes in the prices of equity and hedge fund investments is set out in the table below.
Theanalysis is based on the information at 31 December 2014.
2014 2013 Impact on profit before tax m m Increase in fair value: 10% 34.1 28.0 20% 68.2 56.1 30% 102.3 84.1 Decrease in fair value: 10% 34.1 28.0 20% 68.2 56.1 30% 102.3 84.1 Subject to taxation, the effect on shareholders equity would be the same as the effect on profit.
4.4 Credit risk This is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation.
The main sources of credit risk relate to: Reinsurers: through the failure to pay valid claims against a reinsurance contract held by the Group.
Brokers and coverholders: where counterparties fail to pass on premiums or claims collected or paid on behalf of the Group.
Investments, through the issuer default of all or part of the value of a financial instrument or the market value of that instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents: through the default of the banks holding the cash and cash equivalents.
The insurance and non-insurance related counterparty credit risks are managed separately by the Group.
1 Investment credit risk Investment credit risk management process The Investment Committee chaired by the Group CEO is responsible for the management of investment credit risk.
Theinvestment guidelines and investment policy set out clear limits and controls around the level of investment credit risk.
TheGroup has established concentration guidelines that restrict the exposure to any individual counterparty.
The investment guidelines further limit the type, credit quality and maturity profile of both the Groups cash and investments.
In addition, the investment risk framework further limits potential exposure to credit risk through aggregate investment risk limits.
156 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued Investment credit risk profile The summary of the investment credit risk exposures for the Group is set out in the tables below: BB and AAA AA A BBB P-1 P-2 below Equities Not rated Total At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m m m Financial investments 199.1 239.8 1,063.8 42.4 18.8 338.9 27.2 329.8 2,259.8 Derivative contracts 7.8 7.8 Cash and cash equivalents 151.9 60.9 108.6 321.4 Total 351.0 239.8 1,063.8 42.4 79.7 108.6 338.9 27.2 337.6 2,589.0 At 31 December 2013 Financial investments 221.2 310.1 978.0 57.5 5.7 382.5 47.6 273.3 2,275.9 Derivative contracts 12.7 12.7 Cash and cash equivalents 243.5 4.0 37.1 31.1 315.7 Total 464.7 310.1 982.0 57.5 42.8 31.1 382.5 47.6 286.0 2,604.3 The table above gives an indication of the level of credit worthiness of assets that are most exposed to credit risk.
The ratings are mainly sourced from Standard & Poors and where these are not available an equivalent rating agency.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 157 4.4.
2 Insurance credit risk Insurance credit risk management process The Credit Committee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and reporting to the Executive Management Committee, is responsible for the management of credit risk arising from insurance activities.
Some responsibilities for reinsurance related credit decisions have been delegated to the Reinsurance Security Committee chaired by the Head of Group Financial Performance.
Reinsurer credit risk is managed by transacting only with reinsurance counterparties that satisfy a minimum level of financial strength or provide appropriate levels of collateral, and have been approved for use by the Reinsurance Security Committee.
The reinsurer security list, which sets out the list of approved reinsurance counterparties, is reviewed at least annually and following any significant change in risk profile, which includes any changes to reinsurers financial ratings.
Credit risk appetite limits are set for reinsurance entities and groups to limit accumulations of risk.
These positions are monitored quarterly against current balance sheet exposures and in relation to a number of extreme loss scenarios.
Reinsurance aged debt is monitored and managed against tolerance limits set by the Board.
A bad debt provision is held against all non-rated reinsurers or any reinsurer where there is deemed to be a specific risk of non-payment.
Any breaches of credit risk appetite are reported to the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board on at least a quarterly basis.
Insurance credit risk profile The summary of the insurance credit risk exposures for the Group is set out in the tables below: BBB and AAA AA A below Collateral Not rated Total At 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Reinsurance assets 0.4 201.9 148.7 82.9 11.5 445.4 Insurance receivables 424.2 424.2 Total 0.4 201.9 148.7 82.9 435.7 869.6 At 31 December 2013 Reinsurance assets 174.5 134.9 3.5 36.4 24.7 374.0 Insurance receivables 16.5 335.3 351.8 Total 174.5 134.9 3.5 52.9 360.0 725.8 Insurance credit risk arises primarily from reinsurers whereby reinsurers fail to pay recoveries due to the Group in a timely manner and brokers and coverholders whereby intermediaries fail to pass on premiums due to the Group in a timely manner.
As at 31 December 2014, collateral of 250.7m 2013:64.1m is held in third-party trust accounts or as a letter of credit LOC to guarantee Syndicate 2987 against reinsurance counterparties and is available for immediate drawdown in the event of a default.
Of this amount, 82.9m 2013:36.4m had been drawn against reinsurance assets at 31 December 2014.
As at 31 December 2013, 16.5m was included within insurance receivables relating to funds provided to RiverStone Insurance Limited as collateral for standby letters of credit.
158 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued The following table shows movements in impairment provisions during the year: Impairment Impairment provision provision against against reinsurance insurance assets receivables m m 2014: Opening provision at 1 January 0.8 6.5 Release strengthening for the year 0.2 2.0 Net foreign exchange differences 0.3 Closing provision at 31December 0.6 8.8 2013: Opening provision at 1 January 0.4 6.4 Strengthening for the year 0.4 0.2 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 Closing provision at 31December 0.8 6.5 The following table shows the amount of insurance receivables that were past due but not impaired at the end of the year.
2014 2013 m m 0-3 months past due 9.1 7.5 4-6 months past due 2.2 1.7 7-9 months past due 0.6 1.3 10-12 months past due 0.2 1.0 More than 12 months past due 0.5 1.8 Total 12.6 13.3 4.5 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The predominant liquidity risk the Group faces is the daily calls on its available cash resources in respect of claims arising from insurance contracts.
The Group monitors the levels of cash and cash equivalents on a daily basis, ensuring adequate liquidity to meet the expected cash flow requirements due over the short-term.
The Group also limits the amount of investment in illiquid securities in line with the liquidity policy set by the Board.
This involves ensuring sufficient liquidity to withstand claim scenarios at the extreme end of business plan projections, by reference to modelled realistic disaster scenarios.
Contingent liquidity also exists in the form of a Group revolving credit facility.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 159 The tables below present the fair value of monetary assets and the undiscounted value of monetary liabilities of the Group into their relevant maturing groups based on the remaining period at the end of the year to their contractual maturities or expected repayment dates.
Borrowings are stated at their nominal value.
Statement Fair values of financial position 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years Equities Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Assets: Reinsurance assets 445.4 120.5 142.1 74.9 107.9 445.4 Financial investments 2,259.8 1,222.2 311.2 231.0 468.2 27.2 2,259.8 Derivative contracts 7.8 7.8 7.8 Insurance receivables 424.2 424.2 424.2 Cash and cash equivalents 321.4 321.4 321.4 Total 3,458.6 2,096.1 453.3 305.9 576.1 27.2 3,458.6 Statement Undiscounted values of financial position 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years Equities Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m Liabilities: Insurance contract liabilities 2,057.9 568.7 671.2 349.2 468.8 2,057.9 Derivative contracts 2.7 2.7 2.7 Borrowings 124.5 135.0 135.0 Insurance and other payables 220.8 220.8 220.8 Total 2,405.9 792.2 671.2 349.2 603.8 2,416.4 Statement Fair values of financial position 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years Equities Total 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m Assets: Reinsurance assets 374.0 108.3 124.7 62.8 78.2 374.0 Financial investments 2,275.9 1,055.7 415.3 251.5 505.8 47.6 2,275.9 Derivative contracts 12.7 12.7 12.7 Insurance receivables 351.8 351.8 351.8 Cash and cash equivalents 315.7 315.7 315.7 Total 3,330.1 1,844.2 540.0 314.3 584.0 47.6 3,330.1 Statement Undiscounted values of financial position 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years 5 years Equities Total 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m Liabilities: Insurance contract liabilities 2,097.7 600.1 691.4 356.3 449.9 2,097.7 Derivative contracts 11.1 11.1 11.1 Borrowings 123.2 135.0 135.0 Insurance and other payables 187.3 187.3 187.3 Total 2,419.3 798.5 691.4 356.3 584.9 2,431.1 160 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES continued 4.6 Operational risk Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from the failure of people, process or technology or the impact of external events.
The nature of operational risk means that it is dispersed across all functional areas of Brit.
Operational risk exposures are managed through a consistent set of management processes that drive risk identification, assessment, control and monitoring.
The Chief Operating Officer chairs the Operational Risk Working Group ORWG that provides a dedicated forum for managing operational risk in line with the operational risk policy and appetite limits set by the Board.
This group reports to the EMC where it is augmented by operational risk owners within executive management who actively manage operational risk within their respective areas such as underwriting, claims, investments and finance.
An operational risk management framework is in place to ensure an appropriate standard approach is taken to managing operational risk across the Group.
The key elements of this framework are: Allocation of responsibility for the identification and assessment of operational risk.
Standard tools are used to facilitate theseassessments: Definition of standard elements of sound operating controls that are expected to be in place to address all identified operational risks: A process that integrates with Brits internal model to support the setting and monitoring of operational risk appetite and tolerances: Governance, reporting and escalation for operational risk: Infrastructure supporting the operational risk management framework: and Operational risk management training and awareness.
4.7 Capital management The Groups capital policy is to hold management capital at an entity level and surplus capital resources at both entity and Group level.
Management capital is the capital required by each entity for current trading purposes based on our business strategy and regulatory requirements.
The level of the surplus capital held at Group level is based on our risk appetite and provides flexibility, allowing the Group to deal with shock events and to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
The capital policy is set by the Board and is based on the output of the internal model which reflects the risk profile of the business.
The policy requires capital to be held well in excess of regulatory minimum requirements and underpins the Groups statement of financial position strength.
The policy ensures the capital adequacy of the Group, and each entity, through an efficient capital structure.
The Group proactively responds to developments in the financial environment to ensure its capital strength is maintained while optimising risk-adjusted returns.
At Brit we seek to hold capital resources in a range of 120% to 140% of our requirement.
We believe this is an appropriate level of capital for the business and provides management with: The flexibility to absorb major losses while still being in a position to take advantage of subsequent market dislocations: The ability to pursue opportunity-driven growth in our core business: and The support to provide continuity in regular dividend payments to shareholders.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 161 The Group manages Adjusted net tangible assets, Subordinated debt, Letters of credit and Contingent funding as capital which amounted to 1,050.5m as at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: 909.4m.
All external capital requirements have been complied with during the year by the Company as well as its individual insurance subsidiaries.
The Lloyds market is subject to the solvency and capital adequacy requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, as a result of which the Group may be adversely affected.
The PRA may impose more stringent requirements on Lloyds which may result in higher capital requirements or a restriction on trading activities for entities within the Group.
If Lloyds fails to satisfy its solvency test in any year, the PRA may require Lloyds to cease trading and or its members to cease or reduce their underwriting exposure, which may result in a material adverse effect to the Groups reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
Brit Global Specialty solely underwrites through the Groups wholly-aligned Lloyds Syndicate 2987 which benefits from the Lloyds credit ratings of A Excellent from A. M. Best, AA Very Strong from Fitch and A Strong from Standard & Poors.
Adowngrade in Lloyds financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on the Group.
The Groups business plan and underwriting capacity for the syndicate may be affected by a decrease in the value of the Groups Funds at Lloyds or by recommendations from the Lloyds Franchise Board.
The Group is also reliant upon the compliance of Lloyds with US regulations, including the maintenance by Lloyds of its trading licences and approvals in the US.
162 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION This Note breaks down the operating results summarised in the income statement and the assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position into the main business areas of the Group.
It also shows how our revenue is split globally.
This analysis is designed to help you understand how each segment of our business has performed and how we have allocated our shareholders capital.
As at 31 December 2014, the reportable segments identified were as follows: Brit Global Specialty Direct, which underwrites the Groups international and US business, other than reinsurance.
In the main, Brit Global Specialty Direct deals with wholesale buyers of insurance, rather than individuals.
Risks are large and usually syndicated by several underwriters by means of the subscription market.
Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance, which underwrites reinsurance business essentially the insurance of insurance and reinsurance companies and includes writing non-proportional cover for major events such as earthquakes or hurricanes.
These insurance and reinsurance companies calculate how much risk they want to retain and then pass on their remaining exposure to reinsurers in return for a premium.
Other underwriting, which comprises excess of loss reinsurance ceded from the strategic business units to a cell of Brit Insurance Gibraltar PCC Limited and life Syndicate 389.
Other corporate, which is made up of residual income and expenditure not allocated to other segments.
Foreign exchange differences on non-monetary items are separately disclosed.
This provides a fairer representation of the claims ratios and financial performance of the strategic business units SBUs which would otherwise be distorted by the mismatch arising from IFRSs whereby unearned premium, reinsurers share of unearned premium and deferred acquisition costs are treated as non-monetary items and the majority of other assets and liabilities are treated as monetary items.
Non-monetary items are carried at historic exchange rates, while monetary items are translated at closing rates.
The Group investment return is managed centrally and an allocation is made to each of the strategic business units based on the average risk-free interest rate for the period being applied to the opening insurance funds of each strategic business unit.
The annualised average risk-free rate applied to insurance funds was 1.5% for the year ended 31 December 2014 31December2013: 1.5%.
The ratios set out in the segmental analysis are calculated as follows: The claims ratio is calculated as claims incurred, net of reinsurance divided by earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
The expense ratio is calculated as acquisition costs and other insurance-related expenses divided by earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
The combined ratio is the sum of the claims and expense ratios.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 163 Information regarding the Groups reportable segments is presented below.
a Statement of profit or loss by segment Total Total underwriting underwriting excluding after the the effect Effect of effect of of foreign foreign foreign Brit Global Brit Global exchange on exchange on exchange on Specialty Specialty Other Intra nonmonetary nonmonetary nonmonetary Other Continuing Discontinued Direct Reinsurance underwriting Group items items items corporate operations operations Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m m m m Gross premiums written 1,056.8 245.3 22.1 22.1 1,302.1 1,302.1 1,302.1 1,302.1 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 250.9 45.3 3.1 22.1 277.2 277.2 277.2 277.2 Premiums written, net of reinsurance 805.9 200.0 19.0 1,024.9 1,024.9 1,024.9 1,024.9 Gross earned premiums 993.8 247.4 14.6 14.6 1,241.2 10.7 1,251.9 1,251.9 1,251.9 Reinsurers share 237.4 46.2 1.8 14.6 270.8 1.4 272.2 272.2 272.2 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 756.4 201.2 12.8 970.4 9.3 979.7 979.7 979.7 Investment return 16.6 7.2 0.1 23.9 23.9 46.2 70.1 70.1 Return on derivative contracts 7.3 7.3 7.3 Other income 0.5 0.5 0.5 Net foreign exchange gains 13.3 13.3 0.4 12.9 12.9 Total revenue 773.0 208.4 12.9 994.3 22.6 1,016.9 53.6 1,070.5 1,070.5 Gross claims incurred 574.6 86.6 5.9 9.9 657.2 657.2 657.2 657.2 Reinsurers share 170.2 11.7 0.4 9.9 172.4 172.4 172.4 172.4 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 404.4 74.9 5.5 484.8 484.8 484.8 484.8 Acquisition costs commission 232.4 35.3 0.1 267.6 2.3 269.9 269.9 269.9 Acquisition costs other 46.8 9.3 2.6 58.7 58.7 58.7 58.7 Other insurancerelated expenses 42.3 15.0 57.3 57.3 57.3 57.3 Other expenses 37.2 37.2 37.2 Total expenses excluding finance costs 725.9 134.5 8.0 868.4 2.3 870.7 37.2 907.9 907.9 Operating profit 47.1 73.9 4.9 125.9 20.3 146.2 16.4 162.6 162.6 Finance costs 13.5 13.5 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 149.1 149.1 Tax expense 10.1 10.1 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 139.0 139.0 Claims ratio 53.5% 37.2% 43.0% 50.0% 49.5% Expense ratio 42.5% 29.6% 19.5% 39.5% 39.4% Combined ratio 96.0% 66.8% 62.5% 89.5% 88.9% 164 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Total Total underwriting underwriting excluding after the the effect Effect of effect of of foreign foreign foreign Brit Global Brit Global exchange on exchange on exchange on Specialty Specialty Other Intra non-monetary non-monetary non-monetary Other Continuing Discontinued Direct Reinsurance underwriting Group items items items corporate operations operations Total Year ended 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m m m m Gross premiums written 903.1 281.0 6.0 4.4 1,185.7 1,185.7 1,185.7 1,185.7 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 181.5 50.1 2.2 4.4 229.4 229.4 229.4 229.4 Premiums written, net of reinsurance 721.6 230.9 3.8 956.3 956.3 956.3 956.3 Gross earned premiums 868.1 283.8 6.1 4.2 1,153.8 2.1 1,151.7 1,151.7 1,151.7 Reinsurers share 162.4 45.7 2.2 4.2 206.1 0.1 206.2 206.2 206.2 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 705.7 238.1 3.9 947.7 2.2 945.5 945.5 945.5 Investment return 16.8 7.8 0.2 24.8 24.8 32.1 56.9 56.9 Return on derivative contracts 11.0 11.0 11.0 Profit on disposal of asset held for sale 4.4 4.4 4.4 Other income 1.4 1.4 Total revenue 722.5 245.9 4.1 972.5 2.2 970.3 47.5 1,017.8 1.4 1,019.2 Gross claims incurred 482.3 93.1 3.5 2.7 576.2 576.2 576.2 576.2 Reinsurers share 111.9 6.0 1.8 2.7 117.0 117.0 117.0 117.0 Claims incurred, net of reinsurance 370.4 87.1 1.7 459.2 459.2 459.2 459.2 Acquisition costs commission 196.5 39.3 0.4 236.2 0.4 235.8 235.8 235.8 Acquisition costs other 38.8 9.7 3.2 51.7 51.7 51.7 51.7 Other insurancerelated expenses 43.4 18.8 62.2 62.2 62.2 1.2 63.4 Other expenses 16.9 16.9 16.9 Net foreign exchange losses 4.2 4.2 65.4 69.6 69.6 Total expenses excluding finance costs 649.1 154.9 5.3 809.3 3.8 813.1 82.3 895.4 1.2 896.6 Operating profit loss 73.4 91.0 1.2 163.2 6.0 157.2 34.8 122.4 0.2 122.6 Loss on sale of subsidiary 1.5 1.5 Finance costs 15.0 15.0 Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 107.4 1.3 106.1 Tax expense 6.5 0.1 6.6 Profit loss attributable to owners of the parent 100.9 1.4 99.5 Claims ratio 52.5% 36.6% 43.6% 48.5% 48.6% Expense ratio 39.5% 28.5% 92.3% 36.9% 37.0% Combined ratio 92.0% 65.1% 135.9% 85.4% 85.6% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 165 b Depreciation, amortisation, impairment and capital expenditure by segment Brit Global Brit Global Specialty Specialty Direct Reinsurance Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.6 2.0 Amortisation of intangibles 4.0 1.7 5.7 Capital expenditure 3.7 1.0 4.7 Year ended 31 December 2013 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.4 0.6 2.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of intangibles 3.3 1.5 4.8 Impairment of intangibles 0.2 0.2 Capital expenditure 4.6 1.1 5.7 Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets but excludes assets recognised on business combinations.
c Geographical information The Groups strategic business units operate mainly in four geographical areas, though the business is managed on a worldwide basis.
The segmental split shown below is based on the location of the underlying risk.
Gross premiums written Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m US 501.4 421.5 UK 96.7 93.0 Europe excluding UK 84.0 61.8 Other including worldwide 620.0 609.4 1,302.1 1,185.7 The nature of the London Market business is such that the insureds and reinsureds are often operating on a multi-territory or worldwide basis and hence coverage is often provided on a worldwide basis.
166 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 INVESTMENT RETURN This Note shows the income we have generated through investing our funds.
It also shows the gains and losses that we have generated onvarious types of investment assets as a result of the movement in their market values.
Net Net Total Investment realised unrealised investment income losses gains losses gains return Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m Equity securities 0.8 2.2 0.6 2.4 Debt securities 26.5 2.5 5.0 24.0 Loan instruments 9.8 1.7 3.9 7.6 Specialised investment funds 20.1 6.3 15.1 41.5 Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 0.7 Total investment return before expenses 57.9 12.7 5.6 76.2 Investment management expenses 6.1 6.1 Total investment return 51.8 12.7 5.6 70.1 Year ended 31December2013 Equity securities 0.3 0.1 1.0 1.2 Debt securities 43.5 15.3 8.2 20.0 Loan instruments 8.3 0.8 3.0 12.1 Specialised investment funds 4.9 15.7 8.3 28.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.1 0.6 Total investment return before expenses 57.5 1.2 4.1 62.8 Investment management expenses 5.9 5.9 Total investment return 51.6 1.2 4.1 56.9 7 RETURN ON DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS This Note shows the effect on the income statement of derivative contracts we were party to during the year.
The main reason we entered into these derivative contracts was to help manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives are shown analysed between investment related derivatives and currency related derivatives, reflecting the way we manage our business.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Interest rate swaps 6.6 2.6 Futures 1.4 0.4 Non-currency options 0.4 Investment related derivatives 5.6 2.2 Currency forwards 4.1 13.2 Currency options 2.4 Currency related derivatives 1.7 13.2 7.3 11.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 167 8 NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAINS LOSSES The Group operates in multiple countries and currencies and is exposed to gains and losses arising as a result of movement in various foreign currency exchange rates.
This Note explains the foreign exchange gains or losses as a result of converting the income, expenses, assets and liabilities from foreign currencies to Sterling.
The Group recognised foreign exchange gains of 12.9m 31December2013: losses of 69.6m in the income statement in the period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses result from the translation of the statement of financial position to closing exchange rates and the income statement to average exchange rates.
However, as an exception to this, IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates requires that net unearned premiums and deferred acquisition costs UPR DAC, being non-monetary items, remain at historic exchange rates.
This creates a foreign exchange mismatch, the financial effects of which are shown in the table below.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Losses gains on foreign exchange arising from: Translation of the statement of financial position and Income statement 0.4 65.4 Maintaining UPR DAC items in the statement of financial position at historic rates 20.3 6.0 Maintaining UPR DAC items in the income statement at historic rates 7.0 1.8 Net foreign exchange gains losses 12.9 69.6 Principal exchange rates applied are set out in the table below.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Average Closing Average Closing US dollar 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.66 Canadian dollar 1.82 1.81 1.61 1.76 Euro 1.24 1.29 1.18 1.20 Australian dollar 1.83 1.91 1.62 1.85 In accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, exchange gains and losses are presented on a net basis.
Theyare reported within revenue where they result in a net gain and within expenses where they result in a net loss.
168 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 ACQUISITION COSTS AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES This Note shows the analysis of costs incurred in acquiring and underwriting insurance contracts and the running costs of our business during the year.
We have separated out the more material costs in order to provide a more detailed insight into our costbase.
Year ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31December2013 Other Other Acquisition operating Acquisition operating costs expenses Total costs expenses Total m m m m m m Salary, pension and social security costs Note 10 25.6 45.4 71.0 20.8 37.8 58.6 Other staff-related costs 0.8 3.9 4.7 0.7 3.1 3.8 Accommodation costs 3.5 3.1 6.6 3.1 3.3 6.4 Legal and professional charges 1.7 4.8 6.5 1.3 5.7 7.0 IT costs 0.5 11.9 12.4 0.6 11.8 12.4 Travel and entertaining 2.8 1.9 4.7 2.0 1.8 3.8 Marketing and communications 0.2 1.0 1.2 0.1 4.4 4.5 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 0.7 5.0 5.7 0.5 4.5 5.0 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.8 2.0 0.2 2.0 2.2 Regulatory levies and charges 21.3 21.3 22.1 0.2 22.3 Costs relating to initial public offering 13.7 13.7 2.0 2.0 Other 1.4 2.0 3.4 0.3 2.5 2.8 Expenses before commissions 58.7 94.5 153.2 51.7 79.1 130.8 Commission costs 269.9 269.9 235.8 235.8 Acquisition costs and other operating expenses continuing operations 328.6 94.5 423.1 287.5 79.1 366.6 Acquisition costs and other operating expenses discontinued operations 1.2 1.2 Total acquisition costs and other operating expenses 328.6 94.5 423.1 287.5 80.3 367.8 Netted off against commission costs above are 1.2m 2013:8.8m of profit commissions receivable in respect of whole account quota share reinsurance contracts ceded by the Group.
10 STAFF COSTS This Note gives a breakdown of total cost of employing our staff including executive and non-executive Directors and gives the average number of people employed by the Group during the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 60.5 48.0 Social security costs 6.7 6.5 Pension costs 3.8 4.1 Staff costs from continuing operations 71.0 58.6 Staff costs from discontinued operations 1.2 Total staff costs 71.0 59.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 169 The average number of employees during the year, including executive and non-executive Directors, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number Front office staff: Underwriters 139 112 Claims staff 50 44 Other underwriting and direct support staff 97 94 Total front office staff 286 250 Back office staff: Management 76 74 Administration 103 93 Total back office staff 179 167 Total employees 465 417 Management includes non-executive Directors and employees who have other members of staff reporting to them.
11 EARNINGS AND NET ASSETS PER SHARE Earnings per share shows the profit for each share our shareholders own.
We have also provided information to show the amount of net assets both tangible assets and tangible and intangible assets combined attributable to each share.
The numbers of shares used for calculating the earnings per share and net assets per share are those of Brit PLC.
The number of Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. shares in the comparative periods have been converted into the equivalent number of Brit PLC shares to reflect the corporate reorganisation on 28 March 2014.
For further information refer to Note 2.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 The calculations of the basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations are based on the following figures: Profit on ordinary activities after tax, attributable to the parent m 139.0 100.5 Basic weighted average number of shares number in millions 399.4 416.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares number in millions 399.7 417.2 Basic earnings per share pence per share 34.8 24.1 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 34.8 24.1 The calculations of the total basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the following figures: Profit on ordinary activities after tax, attributable to the parent m 139.0 99.1 Basic weighted average number of shares number in millions 399.4 416.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares number in millions 399.7 417.2 Basic earnings per share pence per share 34.8 23.8 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 34.8 23.8 170 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 EARNINGS AND NET ASSETS PER SHARE continued The calculations of the net assets and net tangible assets per share are based on the following figures: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Net assets m 827.7 711.0 Intangible assets m 62.2 62.7 Net tangible assets m 765.5 648.3 Number of shares in issue at the end of the period number in millions 400.5 393.0 Number of own shares number in millions 0.8 0.9 Number of shares in issue less own shares number in millions 399.7 392.1 Net assets per share pence per share 207.1 181.3 Net tangible assets per share pence per share 191.5 165.3 12 FINANCE COSTS Finance costs arise from interest due on moneys borrowed by the Group and any other amounts payable in respect of those borrowings or borrowing facilities.
The Groups borrowings consist of a revolving credit facility and listed unsecured subordinated debt, details of which are set out in Note 27.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Revolving credit facility and other bank borrowings 3.2 4.9 Lower tier two subordinated debt 10.3 10.1 Total finance costs 13.5 15.0 13 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group engages Ernst & Young LLP to perform the audit of the Group.
From time to time, Ernst & Young LLP are also engaged to perform additional work.
Details of the additional permitted work and the approval process for such work are explained in the Report of the Audit Committee.
This Note breaks down fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP for both the audit and other work.
The remuneration of the auditors or its associates is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Audit of the Group and Company Financial Statements 0.4 0.3 Fees payable for the audit of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Total audit 0.7 0.6 Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.3 Taxation compliance services 0.1 All taxation advisory services 0.9 Corporate finance services excluding amounts covered above in taxation advisory services 2.0 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.3 Total non-audit services 3.4 0.6 Total audit and non-audit services 4.1 1.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 171 14 PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF ASSET HELD FOR SALE This Note sets out the details of and financial effect of the disposal of assets held for sale.
It also gives an update on the contingent consideration receivable in respect of one of these disposals.
Year ended 31 December 2014 On 20 May 2014, Avoca Loan Fund 1, a qualifying investment fund treated as a consolidated structured entity at 31December2013 was categorised as an asset held for sale following a decision by management to dispose of this fund.
Thedisposal was made in stages during the remainder of the year and all consideration received was equal to the fair value ofthe underlying assets.
Year ended 31 December 2014 m Consideration 43.9 Carrying value 43.9 Profit on disposal Year ended 31December2013 On 10 August 2012, the Group entered into various contracts with the other owners of Verex Limited and Jardine Estates Limited.
These contracts effectively converted 6.0m of Verex loan notes and accumulated interest previously held by the Group into 250,000 B shares and a put option whereby Jardine Estates Limited are required to buy the B shares for the higher of 10% of the aggregate value of Verex and 3.5m at any time after 10 August 2016.
The contracts also committed the Group to sell its 35.3% of the ordinary share capital of Verex Limited at par to Jardine Estates Ltd. On 8 May 2013, following Financial Conduct Authority approval, the disposal was completed and the carrying value was transferred from asset held for sale to derivative contracts.
On 20 April 2013, the Group entered into a contract to dispose of its equity holding in Xbridge Limited to Intercede Limited.
This disposal received the approval of the Financial Conduct Authority on 24 June 2013 and completed on 17 July 2013.
Verex Xbridge Limited Limited Total m m m Initial consideration 1.9 17.4 19.3 Contingent consideration 1.8 1.8 Carrying value 1.9 14.8 16.7 Gain on sale 4.4 4.4 The range of the undiscounted contingent consideration receivable from the disposal of Xbridge Limited is nil to 5.3m.
The outcome will depend on the performance of Xbridge Limited during the three years commencing 1 January 2013 and on distributions and proceeds that the purchaser receives up to and including their ultimate exit from Xbridge Limited.
The contingent consideration of 1.8m has been derived from a probability weighted model of possible outcomes on a discounted basis and had not been adjusted by 31 December 2014 except for the unwinding of the discount.
172 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 TAX EXPENSE Income tax is tax charged on our trading activities during the year.
This Note shows the breakdown of tax payable in the current period current tax and also tax that may become payable some time in the future deferred tax.
a Tax charged credited to income statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Current tax: Current taxes on income for the year 5.1 2.0 Overseas tax on income for the year 4.1 2.8 9.2 4.8 Double tax relief 3.5 2.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 2.2 Total current tax 4.5 0.4 Deferred tax: Relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.0 8.5 Relating to changes in tax rates 1.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 1.0 Total deferred tax 5.6 6.1 Total tax charged to income statement from continuing operations 10.1 6.5 Total tax charged to income statement from discontinued operations 0.1 Total tax charged to income statement 10.1 6.6 Overseas tax and double tax relief principally arise from taxes suffered as a result of the Groups operations at Lloyds.
Double tax relief is effectively limited to an amount equal to the tax due at the UK tax rate on the same source of income.
b Tax charged to other comprehensive income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 173 c Tax reconciliation Based on the analysis of Group profits, the weighted average rate of tax is 10.8% 2013: 10.2%.
The tax on the Groups profits before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise based on the weighted average rate of tax as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Profit on continuing ordinary activities before tax 149.1 107.4 Loss on sale of subsidiary Note 16 1.5 Income less expenses of discontinued business Note 16 0.2 Total profit on ordinary activities before tax 149.1 106.1 Tax calculated at weighted average rate of tax on income 16.1 10.8 Non-deductible and non-taxable items 2.6 2.6 Taxes on income at rates in excess of the domestic rate and where credit is unavailable 0.5 0.6 Effect of temporary differences not recognised 0.2 2.4 Effect of revaluation of deferred tax following change in rate of tax 1.4 Other items 1.1 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 2.6 3.2 10.1 6.6 Tax expense on profit on ordinary activities 10.1 6.5 Tax expense on profit on discontinued operations 0.1 Total tax charged to income statement 10.1 6.6 The weighted average rate of tax is based on the geographic split of profit across Group entities in jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
As the mix of taxable profits changes, so will the weighted average rate of tax.
16 LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS This Note analyses the components of the loss recognised in the consolidated income statement from the Groups discontinued operations.
The Group had no ongoing discontinued operations during 2014.
An analysis of the result of discontinued operations is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Total income 1.4 Total expenses 1.2 0.2 Loss on sale of subsidiary 1.5 Loss before tax of discontinued operations 1.3 Tax relating to discontinued operations 0.1 Loss on discontinued operations 1.4 On 12 October 2012, the Group completed the sale of Brit Insurance Limited to RiverStone Group.
Brit Insurance Limited was subsequently renamed RiverStone Insurance Limited.
The proceeds recognised in 2012 were dependent on the outcome of certain trading results in RiverStone Insurance Limited.
The final outcome of these results was established in 2013 and the proceeds reduced by 1.5m.
174 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS An intangible asset is an asset without any physical substance but which has long-term value to our business.
Brits intangible assets relate to contracts to sell our products through independent brokers and agents distribution channels our brand names trade names, our relationshipwith our customer base renewal rights, our rights to underwrite policies at Lloyds syndicate participations and our internally developed software.
With the exception of our syndicate participation rights at Lloyds, which we classify as an indefinite life asset, we reduce the value of these assets according to their useful life by way of amortisation.
Amortisation is included as an expense in the incomestatement.
We also carry out our annual assessment of the carrying value of these assets and, if necessary, make an impairment charge to the income statement.
All software additions in 2014 and 2013 were internally developed.
The software amortisation charge for the year of 2.2m 2013:2.3m is included in the other operating expenses line in the income statement.
There were impairments to intangible assets of 0.2m in 2013 which have been included in the other operating expenses line in the income statement.
Assets not yet in use with a total cost of 1.8m 2013: 3.8m are included in software.
Further information is given in Note 5 b. Impairment tests for syndicate participations Syndicate participations are indefinite life intangible assets and are therefore reviewed annually for impairment.
They have been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Global Specialty Direct 33.8 33.8 Global Specialty Reinsurance 11.6 11.6 45.4 45.4 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined using a value in use calculation.
Each value in use calculation uses cash flow projections based on business plans approved by senior management covering a three year period and subsequent cash flows which assume a nil growth rate.
These cash flows have been discounted using a risk-adjusted discount rate of 9.1% 2013: 8.7%.
In each syndicate participation impairment review, the recoverable amount significantly exceeds the carrying value of the CGU including its associated syndicate participations, and it is considered that a reasonably possible change in key assumptions will not cause the carrying value of the CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
The key assumptions used for the impairment calculations were that cash flows and profit levels will mainly depend on the level of premiums written by each strategic business unit, the rates at which these premiums are written and the claims activity on both prior and future underwriting years.
The business plans reflect senior managements best estimates based on historical experience, growth rates for the respective insurance industry sector, the insurance pricing cycle and expected results from ongoing and future strategic business unit product and distribution strategies.
Commissions and other insurance-related expenses are assumed to remain materially in line with current amounts relative to premium levels.
176 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This Note gives a breakdown of the type of assets in use in our offices such as computer equipment, office fixtures and fittings and furniture.
We reduce the value of these assets according to their useful life by way of depreciation.
Depreciation is included as an expense in the income statement.
We also carry out an annual assessment of the carrying value of these assets and, if necessary, make an impairment charge to the income statement.
The depreciation charge for the year of 2.0m 2013:2.0m is included in the other operating expenses line in the income statement.
There were impairments to property, plant and equipment of 0.2m in 2013 which have been included in the other operating expenses line in the income statement.
Further information is given in Note 5 b.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 177 19 DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS Acquisition costs are costs incurred in underwriting insurance risks and include commissions paid to third parties and some internally generated costs such as underwriter salaries.
These costs are deferred and are charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract.
We show the movement in these deferred costs and releases to the income statement in this Note.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 125.7 113.3 Costs deferred during the year 337.2 299.9 Amortisation charge for the year 328.6 287.5 At 31 December 134.3 125.7 20 DEFERRED TAXATION This Note describes the tax that we may have to pay in future.
Deferred tax arises from differences in the way that tax is calculated for accounts purposes and tax purposes.
Unrealised losses profits Intangible on investments Pensions assets Underwriting Other Total m m m m m m At 1January2013 0.3 3.3 15.9 4.5 12.9 10.5 Movements in the year: Credited to income statement 0.3 0.6 3.0 17.2 9.0 6.1 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 15 b 0.5 0.5 At 31December2013 4.4 12.9 21.7 21.9 17.1 At 1January2014 4.4 12.9 21.7 21.9 17.1 Movements in the year: Charged credited to income statement 1.2 3.0 14.1 21.5 5.6 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 15 b 0.1 0.1 At 31December2014 5.7 9.9 7.6 0.4 22.8 The movements in the year charged to the income statement of 5.6m includes the re-categorisation of certain deferred tax balances included in the brought forward Other and Intangible assets categories to fully align the categorisation for deferred tax disclosure purposes with the categorisation for accounting disclosure purposes.
The net effect of these categorisations on the movement in the year is nil.
Deferred tax has not been set up in respect of losses carried forward of 61.8m 2013:60.3m as it is not considered probable that they can be utilised in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax has not been provided in respect of the profits of subsidiaries in the Group as tax exemptions, for example the participation exemption, are expected to apply.
Deferred tax assets arising on decelerated capital allowances of 11.1m 2013:5.0m have not been provided for due touncertainty over the timing of their utilisation.
178 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE CONTRACTS This Note deals with balances carried in respect of insurance contracts liabilities and reinsurance contracts assets.
It examines the statement of financial position, splitting both insurance and reinsurance balances into their component parts, and explains the assumptions applied in arriving at these figures.
The Note also shows how our claims have developed before and after the effects of reinsurance over a period of time by setting out the cumulative development at the end of each calendar year in respect of claims arising from business written in a particular underwriting year.
It ends by analysing the movements in insurance and reinsurance contracts during the year.
a Balances on insurance and reinsurance contracts 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Gross: Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 914.4 994.7 Claims incurred but not reported 1,143.5 1,103.0 2,057.9 2,097.7 Unearned premiums 546.4 496.2 Total gross liabilities 2,604.3 2,593.9 Recoverable from reinsurers: Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 216.8 202.3 Claims incurred but not reported 229.2 172.5 Impairment provision 0.6 0.8 445.4 374.0 Unearned premiums 81.0 76.0 Total reinsurers share of liabilities 526.4 450.0 Net: Claims reported and loss adjustment expenses 697.6 792.4 Claims incurred but not reported 914.3 930.5 Impairment provision 0.6 0.8 1,612.5 1,723.7 Unearned premiums 465.4 420.2 Total net insurance liabilities 2,077.9 2,143.9 Insurance contracts assumptions and changes in assumptions Process used to decide on assumptions required The risks associated with these insurance liabilities are complex and subject to a number of variables that complicate quantitative analysis, particularly with casualty insurance liabilities.
The Group uses several statistical methods to incorporate the various assumptions made in order to estimate the ultimate costs of claims.
The two methods more commonly used are the chain-ladder and the Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods.
Chain-ladder methods may be applied to premiums, paid claims or incurred claims i. e. paid claims plus case estimates.
The basic technique involves the analysis of historical claims development factors and the selection of estimated development factors based on these historical patterns.
The selected development factors are then applied to cumulative claims data for each underwriting year that is not yet fully developed to produce an estimated ultimate claims cost for each underwriting year.
Chain-ladder techniques are most appropriate for mature classes of business that have a relatively stable development pattern.
Chain-ladder techniques are less suitable in cases in which the insurer does not have a developed claims history for a particular class of business or for underwriting years at early stages of development where the outcome is still highly uncertain.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 179 The Bornhuetter-Ferguson method uses a combination of a benchmark or market-based estimate and an estimate based on claims experience.
The former is based on a measure of exposure such as premiums: the latter is based on the paid or incurred claims to date.
The two estimates are combined using a formula that gives more weight to the experience-based estimate as time passes.
This technique is used in situations in which developed claims experience are not available for the projection recent underwriting years or new classes of business.
The choice of selected results for each year of each class of business depends on an assessment of the technique that has been most appropriate to observed historical developments.
In certain instances, this has meant that different techniques or combinations of techniques have been selected for the individual underwriting year or groups of underwriting years within the same class of business.
Standard statistical techniques may not be solely appropriate for assessing ultimate claims for a number of classes of business e. g. Casualty Treaty and particular events e. g. natural catastrophes and therefore alternative methodologies may be employed to add additional rigour to the process.
Examples include reviewing potential exposure on a policy by policy basis and taking account of market intelligence to determine Brits share of the loss.
In addition to the estimation of claims reserves, certain estimates are produced for unearned premiums.
For open market business, earned premium is calculated at policy level.
However, premium derived from delegated underwriting authorities is calculated by applying the 1 144ths method to estimated premiums applied to the master policy.
This assumes that attachments to master policies arise evenly throughout the period of that master policy.
Risks attaching policies are earned on the same basis as the inwards business being protected.
Changes in assumptions The Group did not change its estimation techniques for the insurance contracts disclosed in this Note during the year.
Claims development tables The tables below show the development of claims over a period of time on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The claims development tables have been presented on an underwriting year basis.
The tables show the cumulative incurred claims, including both notified and IBNR claims, for each successive underwriting year at the end of each year, together with cumulative paid claims at the end of the current year.
The claims have been adjusted to make them comparable on a year-by-year basis.
They have been grossed up to include 100% of the managed syndicate claims rather than the claims that reflects the Group percentage ownership of each syndicates capacity during the respective underwriting years.
In addition, claims in currencies other than Sterling have been retranslated at 31 December 2014 exchange rates.
The development patterns reflect our conservative reserving philosophy where positive development from the initial reserving position is slowly recognised as experience begins to emerge.
The development of the 2007 and 2008 years of account was impacted by exposure to the financial crisis which resulted in reserving action which has subsequently led to stability in the ratios for a number of years.
The 2010 year of account includes the impact of natural catastrophes occurring in 2011 which attached back to policies incepting in the 2010 year of account.
During 2014, the net aggregate reserve releases from prior years amounted to 32.1m, of which 87.9% was derived from the 2011 and prior underwriting years 2013:57.3m 88.5% from the 2010 and prior underwriting years.
Reserves in Brit Global Specialty Direct and Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance experienced releases of 3.4m 2013:releases of 13.0m and 29.2m 2013:releases of 45.3m respectively with a strengthening of 0.5m 2013:strengthening of 1.0m within Other Underwriting.
182 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE CONTRACTS continued b Movements in insurance and reinsurance contracts i Claims and loss adjustment expenses 31 December 2014 31December2013 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m As at 1 January 2,097.7 374.0 1,723.7 2,099.0 361.5 1,737.5 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 758.7 112.5 646.2 542.1 99.2 442.9 Increase in liabilities 657.2 172.4 484.8 576.2 117.0 459.2 Net foreign exchange differences 61.7 11.5 50.2 35.4 5.3 30.1 As at 31 December 2,057.9 445.4 1,612.5 2,097.7 374.0 1,723.7 ii Unearned premiums 31 December 2014 31December2013 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m As at 1 January 496.2 76.0 420.2 462.2 52.8 409.4 Premiums written in the year 1,302.1 277.2 1,024.9 1,185.7 229.4 956.3 Premiums earned during the year 1,251.9 272.2 979.7 1,151.7 206.2 945.5 As at 31 December 546.4 81.0 465.4 496.2 76.0 420.2 22 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS This Note explains the pension schemes operated by the Group for its employees.
For the Groups defined benefit scheme in which no further benefits are being accrued, it sets out the amount carried on the Group statement of financial position, gains and losses incurred during the year, amounts paid into the scheme, together with further information about the scheme.
For the Groups two defined contribution schemes, it sets out the costs incurred during the year.
a Brit Group Services Limited Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Through Brit Group Services Limited, the Group operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme providing pensions and death benefits to its members.
The scheme closed to new entrants on 4 October 2001 and closed to future accrual of benefits on 31December 2011.
All active members of the defined benefit scheme joined the defined contribution plan for future service.
Following closure to future accruals, benefits now increase broadly in line with inflation.
The weighted average duration to payment of the schemes expected cash flows is 18years 2013: 18years.
The scheme is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is operated separately from the Group and managed by an independent Trustee.
The Trustee is responsible for payment of the benefits and management of the plans assets.
The scheme is subject to UK regulations overseen by the Pensions Regulator, which require the Group and Trustee to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule for the scheme every three years.
The most recent triennial review of the scheme was undertaken at 31 July 2012 and identified a funding deficit of 11.6m.
The Group agreed to pay three contributions of 4.5m on each subsequent 31 July and a final contribution of 1.6m on 31 July 2016 to remove this deficit by 31 July 2016.
The Group expects to contribute 4.5m to the scheme in 2015.
The Group has also committed to pay further contributions to the scheme of at least 2.0m a year from 1 January 2017 to 31 July 2024, while the scheme remains in deficit when calculated on a buyout basis.
These contributions are payable by Brit Group Services Limited and backed-up by a cross-company guarantee from Brit Insurance Holdings Limited and Brit Overseas Holdings S.. r. l. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 183 Net amount recognised in the statement of financial position for the scheme: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 140.8 125.0 Fair value of scheme assets 168.6 146.9 Net pension asset 27.8 21.9 Changes in the net pensions asset recognised in the Statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Opening statement of financial position 21.9 14.7 Credit to Income statement 1.0 0.7 Amount recognised outside income statement 0.4 2.0 Contributions paid 4.5 4.5 Closing statement of financial position 27.8 21.9 The net pension asset is expected to become available to the Group in the form of a refund, subject to income tax.
This refund is expected to arise in the very long-term when the last scheme benefit has been paid at which point the Group would have an unconditional right to any remaining surplus in the scheme.
Net credit recognised in the income statement comprised: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Net interest on net defined benefit asset 1.0 0.7 Net credit 1.0 0.7 This credit has been recognised in the other operating expenses line in the income statement.
The allocation of the schemes assets was as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Equities 56.8 58.4 Index-linked UK government bonds 88.1 71.2 Non-UK index-linked bonds 8.9 5.5 Fixed interest government bonds 8.8 Cash and net current assets 3.2 7.1 Gold and gold mining equities 1.9 2.1 Other scheme assets 0.9 2.6 Fair value of scheme assets 168.6 146.9 All scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets.
The scheme does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group.
184 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued Investment strategy The Trustee determines the schemes investment strategy after taking appropriate advice from its investment consultants.
Themanagement of the assets is delegated to State Street Global Advisors and Ruffer LLP.
The Trustees investment objective is to ensure that the scheme has adequate resources to meet its liabilities and thereafter to maximise the long-term total rate of return on the assets.
Investment risk is managed by diversifying the assets across asset classes whose return patterns are not highly correlated and by periodically rebalancing asset classes.
The assets include a portfolio of UK index-linked government bonds which aim to match a significant part of the schemes inflation-linked benefits and therefore help to reduce the Groups exposure to investment and inflation risks.
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 125.0 119.1 Interest on defined benefit obligation 5.5 5.2 Remeasurements due to: Changes in financial assumptions 14.4 5.8 Changes in demographic assumptions 1.4 Experience on benefit obligations 1.5 0.1 Benefits paid 4.0 5.2 Closing defined benefit obligation 140.8 125.0 Movements in the fair value of the scheme assets were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Opening fair value of scheme assets 146.9 133.8 Interest income 6.6 5.9 Actual return excluding interest income 14.6 7.9 Contributions by the employer 4.5 4.5 Benefits paid 4.0 5.2 Closing fair value of scheme assets 168.6 146.9 The principal actuarial assumptions at the yearend were: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Discount rate 3.6% 4.5% Retail Prices Index RPI inflation 3.2% 3.5% Consumer Prices Index CPI inflation 2.2% 2.5% Pension increases in payment 3.1% 3.4% Mortality assumptions: Life expectancy of male aged 60 at statement of financial position date 27.4 years 27.4 years Life expectancy of female aged 60 at statement of financial position date 29.7 years 29.7 years Life expectancy of male aged 60 retiring in 20 years time 29.4 years 29.4 years Life expectancy of female aged 60 retiring in 20 years time 31.4 years 31.4 years FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 185 The assumptions used to determine end-of-year benefit obligations are also used to calculate the following years cost.
Sensitivity analysis Change in defined benefit Assumption Change in assumption obligation at end of period Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 13.3m Future RPI inflation increases Increase by 0.5% Increase by 7.9m Future CPI inflation increases Increase by 0.5% Increase by 2.3m Assumed life expectancy at age 60 Increase by 1 year Increase by 3.9m The calculations in this section have been carried out using the same method and data as the Groups pensions and accounting figures with each assumption adjusted as shown above.
Each assumption has been varied individually and a combination of changes in assumptions could produce a different result.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks in relation to its defined benefit scheme, the most significant of which are detailed below: Risk Investment strategy Changes in asset values are not matched by changes in the schemes defined benefit obligations.
For example, if equity values fall with no changes in corporate bond yields, the net pension asset would reduce.
Investment returns Future investment returns are lower than anticipated and so additional contributions are required from the Group to pay all the benefits promised.
Improvements in life expectancy Scheme members live longer and so benefits ar e payable for longer than anticipated.
Inflation Actual inflation is higher and so benefit payments are higher than anticipated.
Regulatory In future the Scheme may have backdated claims or liabilities arising from future legislation, emerging practice or court judgments.
b Brit Group Services Limited Defined Contribution Personal Pension Plan Brit Group Services Limited operates a defined contribution group personal pension plan.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund.
The pension charge to the income statement represents contributions payable by Brit Group Services Limited to the fund and amounted to 4.6m 2013:4.4m.
At 31 December 2014, no contributions were payable to the fund 2013:nil.
c Brit Insurance Services USA Inc. 401 k Safe Harbor Plan Brit Insurance Services USA Inc. operates a 401 k Safe Harbor Plan.
The pension charge to the income statement represents contributions payable by Brit Insurance Services USA Inc. to the fund and amounted to 0.2m 2013:0.3m.
186 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS This Note summarises the total value of the financial investments of the Group and shows how much we have invested in each class of asset.
It also explains how each asset is categorised under three different levels of hierarchy, the methods used to value assets within each level and assets transferred between levels.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Equity securities 27.2 47.6 Debt securities 985.6 998.8 Loan instruments 169.3 292.7 Specialised investment funds 1,077.7 936.8 2,259.8 2,275.9 All financial investments have been designated as held at fair value through profit or loss.
Basis for determining the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments The Group has classified the fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making those measurements.
The fair value hierarchy comprises the following levels: a Level one quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets: b Level two inputs other than quoted prices included within level one that are observable for the asset, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and c Level three inputs for the assets that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety is determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The significance of an input is assessed against the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Assets are categorised as level one where fair values are determined in whole directly by reference to an active market relate to prices which are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis, i. e. the market isstill active.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level of input that is significant tothe fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 187 Fair values for level two and level three assets include: Values provided at the request of the Group by pricing services and which are not publicly available or values provided by external parties which are readily available but relate to assets for which the market is not always active: and Assets measured on the basis of valuation techniques including a varying degree of assumptions supported by market transactions and observable data.
For all assets not quoted in an active market or for which there is no active market, the availability of financial data can vary and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is new and not yet established in the marketplace, and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
To the extent that valuation is based on the models or inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires additional judgement.
Accordingly, the degree of judgement exercised is higher for instruments classified in level three and the classification between level two and level three depends highly on the proportion of assumptions used, supported by market transactions and observable data.
Valuation techniques Level one Assets included in level one are government bonds, treasury bills, exchange-traded equities and exchange-traded funds which are measured based on quoted prices.
Level two Level two securities contain certain investments in US and non-US government agency securities, US and non-US Corporate debt securities, loan instruments, structured products Asset Backed Securities ABSs, Collateralised Mortgage Obligations CMOs, Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBSs, Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs, Mortgage Backed Securities MBSs and Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBSs and specialised investmentfunds.
US and non-US government agency securities are priced using valuations from independent pricing vendors who use discounted cash flow models supplemented with market and credit research to gather specific information.
US and non-US corporate debt securities are investment grade and the information collected during pricing of these instruments includes credit data as well as other observations from the market and the particular sector.
Prices for all these securities are based on a limited number of transactions so they are derived indirectly using inputs that can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level two loan instruments consist primarily of below investment-grade debt of a wide variety of corporate issuers and industries.
These instruments are mostly over the counter OTC traded.
These instruments are priced using pricing models whose inputs are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data through correlation or other means for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level two structured products include certain ABSs, CMOs, CMBSs, CLOs, MBSs and RMBSs.
These structured products include pools of assets with a variety of underlying collateral.
During pricing, the prepayment models might be adjusted for the underlying collateral and current price data, treasury curve, swap curve as well as the cash settlement.
Level two specialised investment funds contain alternative and credit opportunities funds that are valued based on the underlying assets in the fund on a security by security basis.
A number of direct and indirect inputs such as benchmark yield curves, credit spreads, estimated default rates, anticipated market interest rate volatility, coupon rates and anticipated timing of principal repayments are considered during their valuation.
Level three Level three securities contain certain investments in ABSs, CMOs, CMBSs and RMBSs as well as investments in Insurance-Linked Securities ILS, loan instruments and specialised investment funds.
Level three ABSs, MBSs and CMBSs include debt securities backed by pools of loans with a variety of underlying collateral.
These instruments are priced using unobservable inputs.
188 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Level three CMOs are non-agency mortgage backed securities that are valued using unobservable data at the time of valuation.
Level three RMBSs include non-agency RMBS backed by non-conforming residential mortgages.
Pricing models factor in interest rates, bond or credit swap spreads and volatility.
ILSs are financial instruments whose performance is primarily driven by insurance and or reinsurance loss events.
Instead of an active market, there is a secondary market existing for ILS contracts.
Valuations of these securities require mark-to-market considerations when evaluating risk return and pricing models use at least one significant input not being based on observable market data.
Level three loan instruments consist primarily of below investment-grade debt of a wide variety of corporate issuers and industries.
Level three specialised investment funds include securities that are valued using techniques appropriate to each specific investment.
The valuation techniques include fair value by reference to Net Asset Values NAVs adjusted and issued by fund managers based on their knowledge of underlying investments and credit spreads of counterparties.
Disclosures of fair values in accordance with the fair value hierarchy Level one Level two Level three Total 31 December 2014 m m m m Equity securities 27.2 27.2 Debt securities 142.9 702.7 140.0 985.6 Loan instruments 165.2 4.1 169.3 Specialised investment funds 686.3 332.9 58.5 1,077.7 856.4 1,200.8 202.6 2,259.8 Level one Level two Level three Total 31 December 2013 m m m m Equity securities 47.6 47.6 Debt securities 251.6 489.8 257.4 998.8 Loan instruments 292.7 292.7 Specialised investment funds 792.9 69.6 74.3 936.8 1,092.1 852.1 331.7 2,275.9 Fair values are classified as level one when the financial instrument or derivative is actively traded and a quoted price is available.
In accordance with the Groups policy if an instrument classified as level one subsequently ceases to be actively traded, it is immediately transferred out of level one.
In such cases, instruments are classified into level two, unless the measurement of its fair value requires the use of significant unobservable inputs, in which case it is classified as level three.
All fair value measurements above are recurring as they are required to be measured and recognised at the end of each reporting period.
All unrealised gains of 5.6m 31 December 2013: 4.1m and realised gains of 12.7m 31 December 2013: 1.2m on financial investments held during the period, are presented in investment return in the consolidated income statement.
Transfers from level one to level two A total of 190.4m of funds were transferred from level one to level two during 2014 2013: nil.
Additional information was obtained in 2014 from one fund manager relating to the underlying assets within their specialised investment funds which identified that the majority of the underlying assets were level two.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 189 Reconciliation of movements in level three financial investments measured at fair value Specialised Debt Loan investment Securities instruments funds Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 19.2 49.8 69.0 Transfers from level two 88.0 88.0 Total losses gains recognised in the income statement 0.4 6.7 6.3 Purchases 159.5 73.7 233.2 Sales proceeds 9.1 52.5 61.6 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 3.4 3.2 At 31 December 2013 257.4 74.3 331.7 Transfers to from level two 83.0 0.2 22.1 104.9 Total gains recognised in the income statement 1.8 0.1 1.2 2.9 Purchases 20.3 3.9 3.7 27.9 Sales proceeds 64.6 2.1 66.7 Foreign exchange gains 8.1 0.1 3.5 11.7 At 31 December 2014 140.0 4.1 58.5 202.6 Total Total net gains recognised in the income statement under investment return in respect of level three financial investments for the period amounted to 2.9m 31 December 2013: 6.3m.
Included in this balance are 0.7m of unrealised gains 31 December 2013: 0.9m attributable to assets still held at the end of the year.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 the transfers of financial assets between fair value hierarchy level two and level three is as follows: Transfers from level two to level three A loan of 0.2m 2013:nil was transferred from level two to level three due to its inputs becoming unobservable during 2014.
Transfers from level three to level two There were transfers amounting to 105.1m 2013:nil, which comprised the following: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m ABSs 49.0 CMOs 3.0 CMBSs 9.7 RMBSs 18.1 Specialised investment funds 22.1 Other financial assets 3.2 105.1 The availability of financial data for structured products such as ABSs, CMOs, RMBSs and CMBSs can vary and is affected by a wide variety of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether it is established in the marketplace and other characteristics specific to each transaction.
At the time the 2014 levelling exercise was performed, there was an increase in the availability of indirect observable market inputs e. g. interest rates, yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, credit risk, default rates over those inputs available at the time of the 2013 levelling exercise.
This increase in the availability of inputs was driven by an increase in trading of the instruments held by the Group or through an increase in trading of similar instruments.
These factors, together with the pricing validation exercise conducted on a regular basis throughout 2014, has given management comfort and allowed it to reassess certain structured products as level two in the fair value hierarchy.
A total of 22.1m of funds were transferred from level three to level two during 2014 2013: nil.
Additional information was obtained in 2014 from fund managers relating to the underlying assets within their specialised investment funds which identified that the majority of the underlying assets were level two.
190 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS continued Sensitivity of level three financial investments measured at fair value to changes in key assumptions The following table shows the sensitivity of the fair value of level three financial investments to changes in key assumptions.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Effect of Effect of possible possible alternative alternative Carrying assumptions Carrying assumptions amount amount m m m m Debt securities 144.1 4.6 257.4 12.9 Specialised investment funds 58.5 1.3 74.3 5.1 202.6 331.7 In order to determine reasonably possible alternative assumptions, the Group adjusted key unobservable model inputs asfollows: For debt securities, the Group adjusted, dependent on the type and valuation methodology of the investment, key variables including the probability of spread movements, leverage ratio changes and changes in mortgage default rates used in the models.
For specialised investment funds, the assumptions have been adjusted by between 5% and 8% as determined by historic movements in volatility of valuations or price changes in the underlying investments.
24 DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS This Note summarises the total value of the derivative contracts of the Group.
It also explains how each derivative contract is categorised under three different levels of hierarchy, the valuation methods used to value derivative contracts and amounts transferred between levels.
At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, the options and interest rate swaps formed part of our investment management strategy, while the currency forwards formed part of our foreign exchange management strategy.
The disclosure provided in the tables below include derivatives that are set off in the Groups statement of financial position.
Derivative contract assets Gross Related amounts of Net amounts amount derivative of derivative of cash contract contract collateral Gross liabilities assets received not amounts of set off in the presented in set off in the derivative statement the statement statement contract of financial of financial of financial assets position position position Net amount 31 December 2014 m m m m m Currency forwards 474.5 469.1 5.4 5.4 Options 2.4 2.4 2.4 476.9 469.1 7.8 7.8 31 December 2013 Currency forwards 478.9 468.2 10.7 10.7 Options 2.0 2.0 2.0 480.9 468.2 12.7 12.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 191 Derivative contract liabilities Gross Related amounts of Net amounts amount derivative of derivative of cash contract contract collateral Gross assets set liabilities pledged and amounts of off in the presented in not set off in derivative statement the statement the statement contract of financial of financial of financial liabilities position position position Net amount 31 December 2014 m m m m m Currency forwards 326.8 325.4 1.4 1.4 Interest rate swaps 1.3 1.3 1.4 0.1 328.1 325.4 2.7 1.4 1.3 31 December 2013 Currency forwards 348.6 340.2 8.4 8.4 Interest rate swaps 2.7 2.7 2.1 0.6 351.3 340.2 11.1 2.1 9.0 Disclosures of fair values in accordance with the fair value hierarchy Level one Level two Level three Total 31 December 2014 m m m m Derivative contract assets 5.4 2.4 7.8 Derivative contract liabilities 2.7 2.7 Level one Level two Level three Total 31 December 2013 m m m m Derivative contract assets 10.7 2.0 12.7 Derivative contract liabilities 8.4 2.7 11.1 Valuation techniques Level one Futures contracts are forward-based derivative contracts that are standardised, transferable and exchange-traded, and therefore quoted prices are available in an active market.
Level two The fair value of the interest rate swaps are determined using pricing models based on observable market data such as prices of instruments with similar maturities and characteristics, interest rate yield curves and measures of interest rate volatility.
The value is adjusted to reflect the credit risk of the counterparty.
The valuation technique used to determine the fair value of forward contracts is derived from observable inputs such as active foreign exchange and interest rate markets that may require adjustments for certain unobservable inputs.
Level three The valuation technique to measure the fair value of put options is to use pricing models which require market-based inputs such as expected volatility, expected dividend yield and the risk-free rate of interest.
192 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 DERIVATIVE CONTRACTS continued Reconciliation of movements in level three derivative contracts measured at fair value Currency Put options forwards Total m m m At 1 January 2013 0.7 0.7 Transferred to level 1 0.7 0.7 On disposal of asset held for sale 2.0 2.0 At 31December2013 2.0 2.0 Purchases 0.1 0.1 Total gains recognised in the income statement 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2014 2.4 2.4 25 INSURANCE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES This Note sets out the various categories of amounts which are owed to the Group.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Arising out of direct insurance operations 117.9 156.2 Arising out of reinsurance operations 306.3 195.6 Prepayments 8.5 8.0 Accrued income 4.0 5.2 Outstanding settlement on investments 11.9 12.3 Other debtors 4.1 3.6 Total 452.7 380.9 26 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS This Note analyses the amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash equivalents are investment instruments with less than 90 days left to maturity when purchased by the Group.
We have also provided some additional analysis which explains where our cash and cash equivalents are held and why we are holding them.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and on deposit 294.2 284.3 Cash equivalents 27.2 31.4 Total 321.4 315.7 The carrying amounts disclosed above reasonably approximate fair values.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 193 The source of these amounts can be further analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Classification Definition m m Cash within segregated fund mandates Short-term investment funds, money market funds, treasury bills or cash held within segregated mandates.
58.8 64.5 Lloyds trust funds Cash within the Lloyds Overseas Deposits Trust Funds held to meet regulatory requirements.
31.8 29.9 Self-managed cash Highly liquid instruments held to meet ongoing working capital requirements.
136.1 189.5 Letter of credit cash collateral Cash held as collateral for letters of credit.
60.6 2.0 Derivative operating cash Cash within segregated accounts held to meet margin calls and to enable derivative positions to be rolled.
34.1 29.8 Total 321.4 315.7 The cash and cash equivalent balances held in Lloyds Trust Funds and as letter of credit collateral are not available for use by the Group.
27 BORROWINGS This Note describes the main sources of borrowing available to the Group and the amounts currently borrowed from each of those sources.
31 December 2014 31December2013 Initial Initial capitalised capitalised borrowing Amortised borrowing Amortised Effective costs cost Fair value costs cost Fair value Maturity Call interest rate m m m m m m Non-current: Lower tier two subordinated debt 2030 2020 8.3% 1.8 124.5 137.3 1.8 123.2 131.0 Revolving credit facility 2018 LIBOR 2.3% 9.4 8.2 11.2 124.5 137.3 10.0 123.2 131.0 As at 31 December 2014, the fair value of the lower tier two subordinated debt was determined by reference to trading market values on recognised exchanges and was therefore categorised as a level one in the fair value hierarchy.
As at 31December2013, the fair value of the lower tier two subordinated debt was determined by reference to a portfolio of securities with similar characteristics with a discount applied to allow for illiquidity and was therefore categorised as a level two measurement in the fair value hierarchy.
For further information relating to the fair value hierarchy, refer to Note 23.
Lower tier two subordinated debt The lower tier two subordinated debt has a nominal value of 135.0m and interest is payable annually at a rate of 6.625%.
It is listed and callable in whole by the Group on 9 December 2020 and following this date the interest rate resets to the higher of: i 3.4% above the gross redemption yield of the 4.75% Treasury Gilt due 2030 quoted on the Reset Date: or ii 3.4% above the gross redemption yield of the 8% Treasury Gilt due 2021 quoted on the Reset Date.
The effective interest rate method of accounting has been applied over the term up to the call date.
194 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 BORROWINGS continued Revolving credit facility During 2014, the Group renegotiated its 225m revolving credit facility with its existing banking partners, with certain amendments taking effect on the date of the corporate reorganisation.
The main changes were to reduce the margin from 3.0% to 2.3% and to extend the expiry date from 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018.
At 31 December 2014, a US$80.0m 51.3m 2013: US$80.0m 48.2m, letter of credit had been put in place under the facility while the remainder was undrawn.
At 31 December 2014, the US$80.0m was fully collateralised 2013:uncollateralised.
28 PROVISIONS A provision is recognised instead of an amount payable when there is uncertainty over the amount and timing of any future payment.
The Group maintains two types of provisions, one related to leased properties which are currently unoccupied and one relating to dilapidation costs which we will have to pay when we vacate leasehold properties.
Onerous lease Dilapidation provision provision Total m m m At 1 January 2013 2.9 1.5 4.4 Amounts utilised during the year 2.1 0.3 2.4 Unwinding of discount 0.2 0.2 0.4 At 31December2013 1.0 1.4 2.4 At 1 January 2014 1.0 1.4 2.4 Amounts utilised during the year 0.6 0.1 0.7 Unwinding of discount 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2014 0.5 1.4 1.9 29 INSURANCE AND OTHER PAYABLES This Note sets out the various categories of amounts which are owed by the Group.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Arising out of direct insurance operations 6.0 14.7 Arising out of reinsurance operations 156.3 111.8 Other taxes and social security costs 1.4 1.2 Accruals and deferred income 34.7 31.0 Outstanding settlements on investments 17.3 23.8 Other creditors 5.1 4.8 Total 220.8 187.3 The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate fair values as all amounts are payable within one year of the date of the statement of financial position.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 195 30 SHARE CAPITAL This Note sets out the number of shares we have in issue and their nominal value.
31 December 31 December On 31 December 31 December On 2014 2013 incorporation 2014 2013 incorporation 1p each 200p each 200p each m m m Number Number Number Ordinary shares: Allotted, Issued and fully paid 4.0 400,452,960 1 1 m Number As at 31December2013 1 Issue of ordinary shares on corporate reorganisation 800.0 399,999,999 Capital reduction 796.0 Shares issued in respect of share-based incentive schemes 452,960 As at 31 December 2014 4.0 400,452,960 Following court approval, on 30 April 2014, the share capital of the Company was reduced by the cancellation of 199p from the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The number of shares reported is for Brit PLC, the ultimate parent of the Group.
Brit PLC was incorporated on 19December2013.
31 DIVIDENDS This Note gives details of the amount we have paid to our shareholders during 2014 by way of dividends.
It also sets out what the Board are proposing to the annual general meeting as a final 2014 dividend and as a special 2014 dividend, and the timetable for those dividends.
A final ordinary dividend of 12.5p per share 2013: nil and a special dividend of 12.5p per share 2013: nil was agreed by the Board on 24 February 2015 and is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 21 April 2015.
These Financial Statements do not include as a liability the provision for these dividends.
Subject to annual general meeting approval, both the final ordinary and special dividends are payable on 30 April 2015 to shareholders on the register on 20 March 2015.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 19 March 2015.
An interim dividend of 6.25p 2013: nil per share was paid on 26 September 2014.
196 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32 OWN SHARES This Note gives information about the holding the Group has in Brit PLC shares, including the number and the rationale for holding them.
At 31 December 2014, the number of own shares held in trust amounted to 829,913 2013: 874,399 Brit PLC shares after reflecting the corporate reorganisation on 28 March 2014 with a value of 0.9m 2013: 1.6m.
The purpose of the own shares is to satisfy awards under the share-based payment schemes.
33 RESERVES This Note gives information about the reserves carried on the Groups statement of financial position at 31December2013.
Following the reorganisation in 2014, the balance at 31 December 2014 was nil.
The reserve balance of 94.4m at 31December2013 was a reserve of Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. which mainly resulted from a share cancellation made by that company during 2013.
Following the corporate reorganisation on 28 March 2014 and the introduction of Brit PLC as the new ultimate holding company, the amount was no longer recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
34 COMMITMENTS The Group has various financial commitments resulting from lease arrangements it has entered into.
These amounts, which are not provided for on the consolidated statement of financial position, are set out in this Note.
Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into a number of operating lease arrangements to lease properties and office equipment.
Property leases typically have rent reviews every five years where the lease payments could be increased to reflect market rates.
Operating lease payments recognised in the consolidated income statement during 2014 were 3.3m 2013:3.1m.
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Not later than one year 3.1 3.4 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.5 6.5 Total 4.6 9.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 197 35 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES The table below shows how our profit for the year translates into cash flows generated from our operating activities.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 149.1 107.4 Adjustments for non-cash movements: Realised and unrealised gains losses on investments 18.3 5.3 Realised and unrealised gains losses on derivatives 7.3 11.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.7 4.8 Impairment of intangible assets 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2.0 2.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Foreign exchange gains losses on cash and cash equivalents 5.3 2.0 Profit on disposal of asset held for sale 4.4 Charges to equity in respect of employee share schemes 0.6 0.1 Interest income 37.2 56.1 Dividend income 20.7 1.4 Finance costs on borrowing 13.5 15.0 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Deferred acquisition costs 8.6 12.4 Insurance and other receivables excluding accrued income 73.0 38.6 Insurance and reinsurance contracts 66.0 3.1 Financial investments 9.5 41.5 Derivative contracts 3.8 10.6 Insurance and other payables 31.7 11.6 Employee benefits 5.5 5.2 Provisions 0.5 2.0 Cash flows provided by operating activities 45.5 55.9 36 NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS During 2013 and 2014, the Group has bought out a number of minority shareholders who had interests in Group subsidiary companies.
Following this, all of the Groups subsidiary companies are now fully owned by the ultimate parent company, BritPLC.
On 15 March 2013, the Group completed the buy-out of the non-controlling interests in Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. remaining from its acquisition on 9 March 2011.
On 28 March 2014, as part of the corporate reorganisation, the Group exchanged the non-controlling shares in Achilles Holdings 2 S.. r. l. for shares in Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. which in turn were exchanged for shares in Brit PLC.
198 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 SHAREBASED PAYMENTS The Group rewards it employees through various share-based incentive schemes.
This Note explains the different schemes used to facilitate those share-based payments and the charge recognised in the consolidated income statement in respect of theseschemes.
The Group has a number of long-term employee incentive schemes.
These schemes are described below and further information is available in the Remuneration Report.
The compensation cost recognised in the income statement under International Financial Reporting Standard 2 Share-based Payments for the Groups share-based payments arrangements are shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Equitysettled plans: Retention Partnership Plan 0.2 0.1 Performance Share Plan PSP 0.2 Brit All Employee Share Plan 0.1 Cashsettled plans: PSP dividend equivalents settled in cash 0.1 Total 0.6 0.1 The total liability in respect of cash-settled plans at 31 December 2014 was 0.1m 2013: nil.
The total intrinsic value of cash-settled awards which had vested at 31 December 2014 was nil 2013: nil.
a Retention Partnership Plan RPP During 2011, selected employees in the senior management team were invited to buy a number of shares in Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. under the RPP.
For each share bought, the participant was granted five nil-cost options over shares in Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l.. As a result of the corporate reorganisation, the outstanding RPP awards were exercised with an effective date of 28 March 2014.
Reconciliation of movement in the number of Retention Partnership Plan options Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number of options of options Outstanding at 1 January 401,080 451,512 Forfeited 50,135 Exercised 401,080 Outstanding at 31 December 401,080 The numbers of shares in Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. have been converted into the equivalent number of Brit PLC shares in order to reflect the corporate reorganisation on 28March2014.
b Performance Share Plan PSP During 2014 selected employees were awarded the right to acquire a defined number of Brit PLC shares at no cost to the employee.
Subject to continued service and the satisfaction of the performance conditions, the right to acquire shares may be exercised in differing proportions with effect from the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date.
These proportions are 50%, 25% and 25% respectively.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 199 The performance conditions are: 75% of each award is subject to achieving specific targets for average annual Return on Net Tangible Assets RoNTA over a fixed three-year performance period: and 25% of each award is subject to the Groups total shareholder return TSR achieving specific targets relative to a bespoke industry comparator group over a fixed three-year performance period.
Participants do not receive any dividends until after the shares have been received.
A payment may be made at the time of vesting to reflect the dividend that would have accrued on vested shares between the date of grant and vesting.
The fair value of the PSP share awards with a TSR performance condition is calculated at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo simulation.
This valuation process simulates the future TSRs for the Group and each stock in the comparator group over the three performance periods.
The TSR for each stock is simulated by assuming a log-normal model of share returns.
The inputs to that model are: the risk-free interest rate, expected future dividends, the expected volatility of share returns over the life of the awards and the historical correlation matrix of returns between companies.
Expected dividends are deducted in the calculation of fair value because any dividends accrued over the vesting period are expected to be paid separately in cash.
The fair value of the PSP share awards with a RoNTA performance condition is equal to the share price on date of grant less the value of expected dividends in respect of the shares.
The value of expected dividends is excluded because it is anticipated, as for the PSP awards with vesting based on TSR, that they will be paid separately in cash.
For PSP share awards granted during the year, the following key assumptions have been made: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Risk-free interest rate 3-5 year terms 1.3% 1.8% pa Expected volatility 22.0% pa Expected dividend yield 7.7% pa The risk-free rate is equal to the yields available on zero-coupon UK government bonds at the date of grant with terms equal to the expected lives of the awards.
Expected volatility is based on the historic volatility of the Groups share returns since the IPO and the historic volatility of the comparator group companies over periods commensurate with the expected term of the awards.
The expected dividend yield is based on declared dividends and the Groups dividend policy as at the date of grant and the share price on the date of grant.
The calculation of the compensation cost recognised in the income statement in respect of these awards assumes forfeitures due to employee turnover of 5% per annum prior to vesting, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual experience.
Reconciliation of movement in the number of PSP awards Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number of awards of awards Outstanding at 1 January Granted 2,596,365 Outstanding at 31 December 2,596,365 There were no awards exercisable at the end of the year.
The weighted average fair value at date of grant for equity-settled awards granted during 2014 was 158p.
In addition, the weighted average fair value at date of grant for the related dividend equivalents, which are cash-settled, was 54p.
200 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 SHAREBASED PAYMENTS continued The weighted average remaining contractual life at the end of the year was 3.5 years.
c Brit AllEmployee Share Plan The Brit All-Employee Share Plan comprising the Share Incentive Plan SIP for UK employees and the International Share Incentive Plan for overseas employees provides for the award of Brit PLC Free Shares, Partnership Shares, Matching Shares and Dividend Shares.
In 2014, Free Share awards were granted with a vesting period of three years from the Award Date.
Vesting is unconditional for participants still in-service at the vesting date.
Participants will also receive Dividend Shares which represent the value of reinvested dividends that would have accrued over the vesting period on the shares in the Free Share award.
No Partnership or Matching shares had been awarded by 31 December 2014.
The fair value of the Brit All-Employee Share Plan awards is equal to the share price on date of grant.
Dividends are not deducted in the calculation of fair value because dividends will be accumulated over the vesting period and repaid in equivalent dividend shares.
The calculation of the compensation cost recognised in the income statement in respect of these awards assumes forfeitures due to employee turnover of 10% per annum prior to vesting, with subsequent adjustments to reflect actual experience.
Reconciliation of movement in the number of Brit AllEmployee Share Plan awards Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number of awards of awards Outstanding at 1 January Granted 528,205 Forfeited 19,555 Vested 6,108 Outstanding at 31 December 502,542 The weighted average fair value at date of grant for awards granted during 2014 was 239p.
The weighted average remaining contractual life at the end of the year was 2.5 years.
Employee share trusts and award settlement Awards under the RPP were settled by the transfer of shares from an independent trust.
New Brit PLC shares have been issued to an independent trust in order to settle awards as they vest under the Share Incentive Plan SIP for UK employees.
38 ACQUISITIONS Acquisitions made by the Group in 2013 and 2014 are described below, including the nature of the acquisition, the cost of the acquisition and the accounting treatment adopted.
On 1 June 2014, the Group acquired an aviation underwriting and claims team from QBE Underwriting Limited.
The Group purchased this team and the renewal rights to their London-based dedicated Lloyds aviation business through a cash payment of 1.2m and a further 0.9m of estimated contingent consideration.
This has been recognised as a renewal right intangible asset of 2.1m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 201 On 15 March 2013, the Group reached an agreement to acquire a portion of the formerly exclusive wholesale broker, Protected Self Insurance Manager from Risk Placement Services, Inc.
The Group purchased this team and access to renewal rights through a cash payment of 0.3m.
This has been recognised as a renewal right intangible asset.
The Group reached agreement on 1 May 2013 to acquire Maiden Specialty from Maiden Re Insurance Company.
The Group purchased this team and access to renewal rights and certain items of office equipment through a cash payment of 0.9m and a further 0.4m of estimated contingent consideration.
This has been recognised as a renewal right intangible asset of 1.2m and property, plant and equipment of 0.1m.
39 INTERESTS IN STRUCTURED ENTITIES This Note defines a structured entity and sets out the Groups interests in such vehicles and how we account for them.
A structured entity is defined as an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, or when the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
a Interests in consolidated structured entities During 2013, the Group invested in a Qualifying Investment Fund QIF, Avoca Loan Fund 1, which was a sub-fund of Avoca Capital Investments plc, the purpose of which was to invest in fixed income securities.
By 31 December 2014, the Group had sold its investment in the sub-fund.
In determining whether the Group controlled the sub-fund, it considered how sub-fund investment decisions were made, voting or other rights and the design of the sub-fund.
Based on these criteria, Avoca Loan Fund 1 was considered to be a consolidated structured entity.
The carrying value of the Groups investment in Avoca Loan Fund 1 represented the Groups maximum exposure to loss from the sub-fund and the Group provided no financial or other support to Avoca Loan Fund 1 during its ownership outside of any contractual arrangements in place.
b Interests in unconsolidated structured entities As part of its investment activities, the Group has the following interests in unconsolidated structured entities: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities 831.4 651.3 Mortgage-backed securities 128.5 85.4 Commercial Mortgage-backed securities 11.9 13.3 Other asset-backed structures 124.5 133.0 Total 1,096.3 883.0 These assets are included within the debt securities and specialised investment funds classification in Note 23 and form part of financial investments on the Group statement of financial position.
They are carried at fair value.
The risk that the Group faces in respect of the investments in structured entities is similar to the risk it faces in respect of other financial investments held on the statement of financial position in that the fair value is determined by market supply and demand.
This is in turn driven by investor evaluation of the credit risk of the structure and changes in the term structure of interest rates which might change investor expectation of the cash flows associated with the instrument and therefore its value in the market.
202 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 INTERESTS IN STRUCTURED ENTITIES continued The maximum exposure to loss in respect of these structured entities would be the carrying value of the instruments that the Group holds.
Generally, default rates would have to increase substantially from their current level before the Group would suffer a loss and this assessment is made prior to investing and continually through the holding period for the security.
The Group does not invest in securities which have a contingent liability to the borrowers or structures that provide any type of guarantee, revolving credit facility, callable loans or liquidity arrangement facilities to third parties such as overdrafts.
The Group has received investment returns from UCITS funds during 2014 amounting to 35.7m 2013:11.2m comprised of dividend income 19.0m 2013:3.5m and capital gains of 16.7m 2013:7.7m.
The Group has also received investment returns from structured products mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and other asset backed securities during 2014 amounting to 6.1m 2013:5.9m comprised of interest 5.0m 2013:7.7m and capital gains of 1.1m 2013:losses of 1.8m.
The Group has provided no financial or other support, other than through the normal purchase of tradable securities, to structured entities either held at the date of the statement of financial position or held during 2013 or 2014 and has no current intention to do so.
40 CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES The principal entities which are members of the Brit PLC Group and whose results and financial position are consolidated to produce the Group result and financial position are set out in this Note.
All subsidiaries of the Company are 100% owned.
The principal subsidiaries of the Company at 31 December 2014, together with their main function, are listed below by country of incorporation.
United Kingdom Brit Insurance Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Brit Syndicates Limited Lloyds managing agent Brit UW Limited Lloyds corporate member Brit Group Services Limited Group services company BGS Services Bermuda Limited Service company United States of America Brit Insurance Services USA Inc. Service company Gibraltar Brit Insurance Gibraltar PCC Limited Insurance company 41 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group has a number of related parties which includes its principal investors and its key management.
Sometimes it transacts business with these related parties.
This Note sets out those transactions.
a Principal investors The principal investors in Brit PLC are a number of Apollo and CVC investment funds.
The Group has paid monitoring fees to Apollo and CVC-affiliated investment funds amounting to 7.4m 31December2013: 2.0m of which 5.4m 31 December 2013: nil was paid in connection with the termination of those monitoring fee arrangements on 27 March 2014.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 203 Apollo Capital Management LP and Athene Asset Management LLC are members of the Apollo Group and CVC Credit Partners LLC is a member of the CVC Group.
The Group has incurred investment management fees, including performance fees, payable to these companies as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Apollo Capital Management, LP 0.6 0.4 Athene Asset Management, LLC 1.0 0.9 CVC Credit Partners, LLC 0.2 0.1 1.8 1.4 The Group has made investments in Apollo and CVC investment funds as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Apollo Offshore Credit Strategies Fund 27.2 22.1 CVC Credit Partners European Opportunities Fund 15.3 17.0 42.5 39.1 The Group has made investments in the loan notes of members of the Apollo Group as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Great Wolf Resorts Inc. 0.6 1.5 Rexnord Corporation 1.3 1.7 1.9 3.2 b Key management i Compensation The amount of the emoluments granted in respect of the financial year to the members of the administrative, managerial and supervisory bodies by reason of their responsibilities, and any commitments arising or entered into in respect of retirement pension for former members of those bodies, are broken down as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 6.6 6.3 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.1 Termination benefits 0.5 6.9 7.0 For the purposes of International Accounting Standard 24, Related Party Disclosures, key managers are defined as the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Management Committee which is the primary vehicle for implementing Board decisions in respect of UK-managed operations.
Information relating to Directors remuneration and Directors shareholdings and share interests are included in the Remuneration Report.
204 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued ii Loans On 27 March 2014, certain key managers and certain other employees of the Group entered into loan agreements with Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. pursuant to which they borrowed 1.4m from Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. for the purpose of funding their acquisition of additional shares in Achilles Holdings 2 S.. r. l. a Group company.
The loans are interest free and are repayable in full on 28 February 2015 or, if earlier, the date on which the borrower ceases to be employed by a Group company.
As part of the corporate reorganisation, the relevant shares in Achilles Holdings 2 S.. r. l. were exchanged for shares in Achilles Holdings 1 S.. r. l. which in turn were exchanged for shares in Brit PLC.
Each key manager and employee has been required to sell 25% of all of their shares in Brit PLC resulting from the corporate reorganisation and use 50% of the post-tax consideration for full or partial repayment of their respective loan.
As at 31 December 2014, the total amount of such loans outstanding was 0.2m.
One of the loans referred to above was made to a Director, Mark Cloutier.
The initial loan was 0.5m and the amount outstanding at 31 December 2014 was 0.2m.
iii Other transactions with Directors Certain Directors are also directors of other companies as set out in the Governance section of this Annual Report.
Some of these companies are their subsidiaries made with companies within the Brit Group.
All such trading is carried out on arms-length commercial terms.
42 GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES This Note explains guarantees issued by Group companies and any contingent liabilities they may be exposed to.
a Lloyds Assets have been pledged, as Funds at Lloyds, by way of deposits and fixed and floating charges for Brit UW Limited, the corporate member of the Group.
As at 31 December 2014, the Funds at Lloyds requirement amounted to 490.9m 2013:551.2m.
b Revolving credit facility The Group has access to a 225.0m revolving credit facility.
For further information, refer to Note 27.
Guarantees have been made by Brit PLC and Brit Insurance Holdings Limited to the syndicated banks providing the facility.
As at 31 December 2014, a US$80m 51.3m letter of credit had been provided to Lloyds 2013: US$80.0m 48.2m.
At31December 2014, this letter of credit was fully collateralised with USD cash held in a charged bank account 31December2013: uncollateralised.
c Collateral pledged As part of its reinsurance arrangements, a subsidiary company entered into a collateralised reinsurance arrangement with a counterparty and the fair value of the assets held to support this liability as at 31December2013 was 428.1m.
The reinsurance arrangements ceased on 18 August 2014 and the collateral pledged was withdrawn on that date.
A Group company, Brit Syndicates Limited, has a letter of credit facility with Citibank PLC.
Letters of credit to the value of US$14.6m 9.3m were in issuance at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: US$3.3m 2.0m and were fully collateralised in cash.
d Taxation The Group operates in a wide variety of jurisdictions around the world through its Lloyds syndicate and uncertainties therefore exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax laws and practices of those territories.
The Group establishes provisions for taxes other than current and deferred income taxes, based upon various factors which are continually evaluated, if there is a present obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Income taxes are provided for as set out in accounting policy Note 2.5.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 205 43 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS This Note explains any events which have occurred between the date to which these statements are prepared 31 December 2014 and to the date of this report 24 February 2015.
Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending on whether the condition existed in 2014.
If non-adjusting events after the year end are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the Financial Statements.
Therefore, in this section we disclose details of any material non-adjusting events after the reporting period.
On 17 February 2015, the boards of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited Fairfax and the Company announced that they had reached agreement regarding the terms of a recommended cash offer through which the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of the Company would be acquired by FFHL Group Ltd, an entity wholly-owned by Fairfax.
Under the terms of this offer, shareholders of the Company would be entitled to receive 305 pence in cash for each Brit share, comprising 280 pence in cash and 25 pence by way of the 2014 final ordinary and special dividends recommended by the Board of the Company.
