COMPANY INFORMATION Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 219 COMPANY INFORMATION Directors Eligible shareholders can participate in Brits Dividend Dr Richard Ward Chairman Reinvestment Plan.
This scheme offers shareholders Mark Cloutier Chief Executive Officer the opportunity to use their cash dividends to buy new Ipe Jacob senior independent non-executive Director sharesin Brit.
Jonathan Feuer non-executive Director The recommended final ordinary and special dividends Hans-Peter Gerhardt non-executive Director will, subject to AGM approval, be paid on 30 April 2015 to Maarten Hulshoff non-executive Director shareholders on the register on 20 March 2015.
The shares Sachin Khajuria non-executive Director will go ex-dividend on 19 March 2015.
Gernot Lohr non-executive Director Electronic communication Kamil Salame non-executive Director Shareholders can choose to receive dividend statements, Willem Stevens non-executive Director notices of meetings, Annual Reports and other important Group Company Secretary Company information electronically by contacting David Gormley Computershare.
You may register online at www.
Head of Investor Relations Sam Dobbyn Annual general meeting Telephone: 44 0 20 7984 8800 Brit PLCs 2015 AGM will take place at 9.30am on Tuesday, 21 April 2015 at 55 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3AS.
Registered Office 55 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3AS Auditors Telephone: 44 0 20 7984 8500 Ernst & Young LLP 1 More London Place Incorporation and listing London SE1 2AF Brit PLC is incorporated in the UK and its registered number is 8821629.
Brit PLC is listed on the London Stock Joint stockbrokers Exchange and trades under the symbol BRIT.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street Registrar Canary Wharf Computershare Investor Services PLC London E14 5JP The Pavilions Numis Securities Limited Bridgwater Road The London Stock Exchange Building Bristol BS99 6ZZ 10 Paternoster Square Telephone: 0870 889 3156 London EC4M 7LT Lines are open from 8.30am to 5pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
Corporate lawyers Website Slaughter and May www.
com One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY The Company website provides information about Brit PLC including information on the business, Annual Reports, Clifford Chance half-yearly reports and announcements to the London 10 Upper Bank Street Stock Exchange.
London E14 5JJ Share capital Principal bankers Brit PLC has one class of shares ordinary shares of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 0.01, each of which constitutes equity security and hold 280 Bishopsgate voting rights.
London EC2M 4RB Lloyds Bank plc Dividends 25 Gresham Street Brit pays cash dividends to shareholders resident in the London EC2V 7HN UK into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to their registered address.
Please contact Computershare for a dividend mandate form.
220 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 GLOSSARY A Binder business: Business conducted by a coverholder Acquisition costs: Costs incurred in the course of writing acting under a binding authority.
business and issuing policies including commissions paid Binding authority: See delegated underwriting authority.
to intermediaries and related internal expenses such as BISI: Brit Insurance Services USA, Inc. a company underwriter related costs.
Adjusted net tangible assets or adjusted NTA: Total Broker: An intermediary who negotiates contracts of equity, less intangible assets net of the deferred tax liability insurance or reinsurance, receiving a commission for on those intangible assets.
placement and other services rendered.
Adjusted net tangible assets per share: Calculated C as closing adjusted net tangible assets divided by the Capital ratio: Available capital resources expressed as a number of shares in issue at the statement of financial percentage of management entity capital requirement.
position date less own shares.
Captive: An entity that provides risk-mitigation services for Admitted market: Insurance provided by an insurer that other entities within the same Group only.
is admitted or licensed in the US state in which the policy Catastrophe or Cat: Perils including earthquakes, was sold.
Admitted insurance must also be sold by an hurricanes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, floods, fires, agent who is licensed in that state.
tornadoes, explosions and other natural or man-made Aggregate exposure: The expected maximum total of disasters.
Catastrophe losses may also arise from acts of claims that could be incurred by an insurer in respect of war, acts of terrorism and political instability.
any event or series of similar events.
Also see realistic Claims: Moneys demanded by an insured for indemnity disaster scenarios.
Apollo: Means i AP Achilles Holdings EH-1, LLC, AP Claims development triangles: Tabulations of claims Achilles Holdings EH-2, LLC, AP Achilles Holdings EH-3, development data, set out with underwriting years along LLC, and AP Achilles Holdings EH-4, LLC: ii AP Helios one axis and calendar years of development along Co-Invest, L. P. : and iii AP Selene Co-Invest, L. P. theother.
Asset allocation: The allocation of our investments across Claims incurred: Claims arising from events that have different kinds of asset classes, such as equities, bonds, occurred, regardless of whether or not they have been and cash, in order to achieve a balance between return reported to the insurer.
Claims ratio: Calculated as total claims incurred expressed Asset leverage: The ratio of invested assets to adjusted as a percentage of net earned premiums excluding the net tangible assets.
In this calculation, both invested effect of foreign exchange movements on non-monetary assets and adjusted net tangible assets are reduced items.
The claims ratio is the aggregate of the reserve by the amount of any recommended final ordinary and release ratio, major claims ratio and the attritional specialdividends.
Attritional losses: Common losses, as opposed to a major Clash reinsurance: A form of reinsurance that provides or catastrophe losses, incurred from ordinary insurance additional cover in the event that the reinsured is exposed and or reinsurance operations.
to multiple claims from two or more of its insureds arising Attritional loss ratio: Attritional losses incurred out of the same loss occurrence.
expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums Combined ratio or CoR: Calculated as total claims excluding the effect of foreign exchange movements incurred and total expenses incurred by the underwriting on non-monetary items.
divisions, expressed as a percentage of net earned Available capital resources: Adjusted net tangible premiums excluding the effect of foreign exchange assets, subordinated debt and Letters of credit movements on non-monetary items.
The combined ratio is contingentfunding.
the aggregate of the claims ratio and the expense ratio.
B Commission ratio: Commission expense incurred by the BGSB: Brit Global Specialty Bermuda, the business of the underwriting division expressed as a percentage of net Group operating in Bermuda.
earned premiums excluding the effect of foreign exchange BGSU: Brit Global Specialty USA, the business of the movements on non-monetary items.
Group operating in the United States, of which BISI is the Commutation: An agreement between a ceding insurer managing general agent.
and a reinsurer that provides for the valuation, payment BIG: Brit Insurance Gibraltar PCC Limited, the Groups and complete discharge of all obligations between the captive reinsurer incorporated in Gibraltar.
parties under a particular reinsurance contract.
GLOSSARY Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 221 Constant FX rates: An increase or decrease in figures lines business is largely unregulated as to rate and form between two years after eliminating the effect of FX rate but insurers must be authorised to write such business in movements.
astate by the local regulator.
Corporate member: A company providing the capital to Excess of loss or XL: A type of reinsurance that covers support the underwriting activity of a syndicate at Lloyds.
specified losses incurred by the reassured party in excess Brits corporate member is Brit UW Limited.
of a stated amount the excess up to a higher amount of Coverholder: An entity authorised by an insurer to enter limit, for example 5m excess of 1m.
Such coverage can into a contract of insurance on its behalf.
operate on a per loss basis or an aggregate basis.
CVC: Means i Bishop, L. P. and ii the CVC European Executive Management Committee or EMC: A Equity V Funds.
committee at Brit consisting of the senior management CVC European Equity V Funds: Means CVC European and the CEO.
Equity Partners V A L. P. CVC European Equity Partners Expense ratio: Calculated as total expenses incurred by V B L. P. CVC European Equity Partners V C L. P. CVC the underwriting divisions expressed as a percentage of a European Equity Partners V D L. P. and CVC European percentage of net earned premiums excluding the effect Equity Partners V E L. P. whose shareholdings in the of foreign exchange movements on non-monetary items.
Company are held directly by their wholly owned direct The expense ratio is the aggregate of the commission ratio subsidiary, White Poolco Holdings Limited.
and the operating expense ratio.
Cycles: Trends or patterns that may exist in a given market F environment.
See hard market and soft market.
FCA: The UK Financial Conduct Authority, established D pursuant to the Financial Services Act 2012 and Deferred acquisition costs or DAC: Costs incurred for responsible for, among other things, the conduct the acquisition or renewal of insurance policies which are regulation of all firms authorised and regulated under capitalised and amortised over the term of those policies.
FSMA and the prudential regulation of firms which are not Delegated underwriting authority: An authority granted regulated by the PRA.
by an underwriter to an agent known as a coverholder First Dollar: An insurance policy written with low excess whereby that agent is entitled to accept, within certain and deductible, and written in the admitted market.
limits, insurance business on behalf of the underwriter.
FSC: The Financial Services Commission of Gibraltar, a The coverholder has full power to commit the underwriter statutory body corporate established by the 1989 Financial within the terms of the authority.
Services Commission Ordinance since replaced by the Financial Services Commission Act 2007, responsible for E regulating the financial services industry in Gibraltar.
Earned premium: That proportion of a premium which Funds at Lloyds or FAL: Funds held in trust at Lloyds to relates to the portion of a risk which has expired during support a Lloyds underwriters underwriting activities.
Energy downstream: Cover for the petrochemical refiningsector.
G Energy midstream: Cover for elements of production not Gearing ratio: Calculated as total borrowings covered by energy upstream including land rigs, gas plants subordinated debt, revolving credit facility cash and general midstream energy excluding petrochemical drawdowns and uncollateralised drawn letters of and refining.
Coverage provided for physical damage, credit divided by adjusted net tangible assets and business interruption.
Energy upstream: Cover for exploration and upstream Gross written premium or gross premiums written or production including construction, operational physical GWP: Amounts payable by the insured, including any damage risk, business interruption loss of production brokerage or commission deducted by intermediaries but income, liabilities on a package basis, operators extra excluding any taxes or duties levied on the premium.
expenses and the typical ancillary coverages required by H the energy sector.
Hardening or hard market: An insurance market where Excess and Surplus or E&S: A generic US regulatory prevalent prices are high, with more restrictive terms and classification referring to insurance coverage not ordinarily conditions offered by insurers.
written by insurers fully admitted in various states.
The E&S 222 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 GLOSSARY Higher hazard liability business: The provision of cover London Market: The London insurance market, which to industries that have inherent and significant hazards, includes the Lloyds market.
including industries where personnel work at height, depth Longtail: The term used to describe business where the or in confined space.
difference between the timing of the average premium HMRC: Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
receipt and the timing of the average claim payment is over three years.
I Incurred but not reported or IBNR: Claims incurred but M not reported, including claims which are incurred but not Major claims: Claims arising from natural or man-made enough reported i. e. where the amount of the notification catastrophes, or claims in excess of 10.0m net of is insufficient.
reinsurance and allowing for reinstatement from large International Accounting Standards or IAS: See single risk loss events.
Major claims ratio: Major claims incurred expressed as a International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS: percentage of net earned premiums excluding the effect Accounting and reporting Standards established by the of foreign exchange movements on non-monetary items.
International Accounting Standards Board, as adopted Management entity capital requirement: The capital by the European Commission for use in the European required by an entity for based on business strategy and Union.
UK listed entities have reported on an IFRS basis regulatory requirements.
Managing Agency: A company that manages a Invested assets: Financial investments, cash and cash syndicate at Lloyds on behalf of the member or members equivalents and investment related derivatives.
Brits managing agency is Brit Investment related derivatives: Includes options and Syndicates Limited.
N Investment return: Income, net realised and unrealised Net earned premium or NEP: The net written premium gains and losses on financial investments, cash and cash adjusted by the change in net unearned premium equivalents and investment related derivatives net of i. e. thepremium for which insurance exposure has yet investment management fees.
Investment return percentage: Investment return Net tangible assets or NTA: The total assets of a expressed as a percentage of average invested assets, company, minus any intangible assets, less all liabilities.
calculated on a month by month basis.
Net tangible assets per share: Calculated as closing net L tangible assets divided by the number of shares in issue at Lead underwriter or lead: A lead underwriter usually the statement of financial position date less own shares.
a specialist in the field of the insurance concerned is Net written premiums or NWP: Gross premiums written the first underwriter to take a portion of a risk, quote an during a specified period less outwards reinsurance appropriate rate of premium and set terms and conditions.
Letter of credit or LoC: A written undertaking by a O financial institution to provide funding if required.
Operating expense ratio: Calculated as operating LIBOR: The daily London Interbank Offered Rate set by expenses incurred by the underwriting divisions the British Banking Association.
expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums Line size: The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance excluding the effect of foreign exchange movements on risk that is accepted by an underwriter or which an non-monetaryitems.
underwriter is willing to accept.
Ordinary dividend interim and final : The sustainable Lloyds China Platform: The branch of Lloyds in Shanghai regular dividend that the Company aims to pay in the Peoples Republic of China operated through Lloyds shareholders.
Dividends are linked to past performance Insurance Company China Limited, on which certain and future prospects, expected cash flows and Lloyds syndicates have representation.
working capital needs, as well as the availability of Lloyds of London: The Society of Lloyds and Corporation .
of Lloyds created and governed by the Lloyds Acts 1871- Outstanding claims: Claims which have been notified at 1982, including the Council of Lloyds and its delegates the statement of financial position date but not settled.
and other persons through whom the Council may act, as the context may require.
GLOSSARY Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 223 Own risk and solvency assessment or ORSA: The name Realistic Disaster Scenarios or RDS: Specific scenarios given to the entirety of the processes and procedures which the Group uses to test its ability to settle claims employed by an insurer to identify, assess, monitor, arising from certain types of disaster.
manage and report the short and long term risks it faces Reinsurance: The transfer of some or all of an insurance ormay face and to determine the capital necessary to risk to another insurer.
The company transferring the risk is ensure that the insurers overall solvency needs are met called the ceding company and the company assuming atall times.
the risk is called the assuming company or the reinsurer.
Representative office: An office established by Brit P to conduct marketing and other non-transactional Portfolio director: The employees of the Group operationsoverseas.
appointed to manage the Groups underwriting portfolios: Reserves: Outstanding claims and claims incurred but short-tail direct, long-tail direct, short-tail reinsurance and notreported.
Reserve releases: The amount of the reserves at the end Pps: Pence per share.
of the previous period determined as being excess to PRA: The UK Prudential Regulation Authority established requirements at the end of the current period.
pursuant to the Financial Services Act 2012 and Reserve release ratio: The amount of reserve releases responsible for the prudential regulation and supervision of expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums banks, building societies, credit unions, insurers and major excluding the effect of foreign exchange movements investment firms.
Premium leverage: The ratio of gross written premium Retention rate: The ratio, in percent, of the value of to adjusted net tangible assets.
For this calculation the premiums relating to risks written in one year renewed adjusted net tangible assets are reduced by the amount of inthe following year.
The data used is risk adjusted the recommended final ordinary and special dividends.
i. e. it allows for changes to terms and conditions.
Premium trust fund or PTF: The premiums and Retrocession: The transfer of some or all of a reinsurance other monies that members receive in respect of their risk to another reinsurer.
underwriting at Lloyds which are held by their managing Return on equity or RoE: See Return on net tangible agents in trust for them subject to the discharge of their assets before foreign exchange movements and IPO costs underwriting liabilities.
Protected cell company or PCC: A company that has Return on net tangible assets before foreign exchange been separated into legally distinct portions or cells.
The movements and IPO costs or RoNTA: Profit after tax revenue streams, assets and liabilities of each cell are kept before the effects of foreign exchange movements on separate from all other cells.
Each cell has its own separate monetary and non-monetary items, before the return on portion of the PCCs overall share capital, allowing currency related derivative contracts, before charges in shareholders to maintain sole ownership of an entire cell.
respect of intangible assets and before costs incurred in respect of the IPO, expressed as a percentage of adjusted Q opening net tangible assets.
The adjusted opening net Quota share or QS: A type of reinsurance which provides tangible assets are also modified on a weighted average that the reassured shall cede to the reinsurer a specified basis for capital distributions, share buybacks or share percentage of all the premiums that it receives in respect issues during the period.
of a given section or of all of its underwriting account for Risk adjusted rate change: Change in premium rates a given period in return for which the reinsurer is obliged during the year expressed as a percentage of opening to pay the same percentage of any claims and specified premium rates.
The data reflects internal estimates by expenses arising on the reinsured business.
Britsunderwriters, based on available year-on-year underlying renewal data after allowing for changes to R terms and conditions.
Ratio of front office employees to back office Risk management framework or RMF: The Groups own employees: Calculated as the average number of front internal framework for risk management.
office staff divided by the average number of back office Running yield: The income return, expressed either as a staff employed during the year.
Front office employees are percentage of invested assets.
defined as underwriters, other underwriting staff, claims staff and direct support staff.
The balance of employees are classified as back office.
224 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 GLOSSARY S T Service companies: Subsidiary companies set up to Tactical asset allocation: This is the allocation of invested operate a binding authority on behalf of the Syndicate assets from time to time within the strategic asset to write business from non-Lloyds brokers or direct from allocation ranges and investment risk framework to reflect policymakers.
shorter-term changes in market conditions.
Shorttail: The term used to describe business where the Tail: See short-tail and long-tail.
difference between the timing of the average premium Technical price: The price for the risk which is expected receipt and the timing of the average claim payment is to produce the long-term required return on capital for under three years.
Softening or soft market: An insurance market where The Company: Brit PLC.
prevalent prices are low, and terms and conditions offered The Group: Brit PLC and its subsidiaries.
by insurers are less restrictive.
Solvency capital requirement or SCR: The higher of the Total available resources: Sum of the closing adjusted net two capital levels required by Solvency II.
The SCR is the tangible assets, subordinated debt and letters of credit prudent amount of assets to be held in excess of liabilities contingent funding.
and functions as an early warning mechanism if it is Total invested assets: The sum of financial investments, breached.
The SCR is calculated using either the standard assets held for sale, cash and cash equivalents and net formula or an approved internal model.
Solvency matched: The matching of the currencies of Total operating expenses: These represent all expenses the Groups liabilities and management entity capital incurred by the Group, excluding commission costs.
They requirements with the currencies of the assets held by include costs incurred in respect of the IPO.
Total value created: Calculated as closing adjusted net Solvency II: A combination of several EU Directives that tangible assets plus dividends paid during the year, less codify and harmonise EU insurance regulation, primarily opening adjusted net tangible assets.
concerning the amount of capital that EU insurance Treaty: A reinsurance contract pursuant to which the companies must hold to reduce the risk of insolvency.
reinsurer is obliged to accept, within agreed limits, all risks Principal components are Directive 2009 138 EC on the underwritten by the reinsured within specified classes of taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and business in a given time period.
reinsurance and Directive 2012 23 EU on the financial U position of insurance undertakings.
Solvency II will come Ultimate claims: The total forecast claims expected to into force in all EU member states on 1January2016.
arise from a policy or class of business.
Ultimate claims Special dividend: Any dividend paid in excess of the include those losses paid, those notified and IBNR.
In the event that the Groups capital Underlying operating expenses: Calculated as Total position is in excess of requirements and that excess operating expenses less IPO related expenses, project capital is not needed for growth opportunities, the costs and other timing differences.
Underlying operating Company will consider returning it to its shareholders.
This expenses include bonus costs.
will be done via a special dividend.
Underwriting capacity: The maximum premium income Strategic asset allocation or SAA: The Groups strategic which a Lloyds syndicate is permitted to underwrite.
asset allocation defines the overall Group investment Acapacity figure is assigned to each underwriting year and strategy and reflects entity-level considerations and the relevant premium income is defined as gross written governance matters.
Syndicate: A group of underwriting members of Lloyds Underwriting profit: Operating profit generated by our or a single corporate member managed as a unit to underwriting segments less investment return.
underwrite insurance business at Lloyds to which a Unearned premium reserve or UPR: The portion of particular syndicate number is assigned by or with the premium income written in the calendar year that is authority of Lloyds of London.
Brit operates through attributable to periods after the statement of financial Lloyds Syndicate 2987. position date.
It is accounted for as unearned premiums in the underwriting provisions.
Unrealised gains or losses: Gains or losses that are yet to be crystallised in the form of a cash movement from disposals of invested assets.
Designed and produced by Bruce Associates Printed by Cousin Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 Brit PLC 55 Bishopsgate, London, EC2N 3AS www.
com SEEING THE DIFFERENCE MAKES THE DIFFERENCE
