110 Notes to the financial statements 17.
Derivatives continued Fair value of financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the companys financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to its fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2014 and 2013.
The carrying amounts are included in the company balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying value of oating rate investments approximated to their fair values due to the frequent re-set of interest rates to market rates.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the companys bonds, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist.
The carrying value of oating rate borrowings approximated to their fair values due to the frequent re-set of interest rates to market rates.
The fair value of the companys outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts were the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models that the company would receive or pay in order to terminate such contracts in an arms length transaction taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange of the balance sheet date.
Audit Services Information relating to fees for audit services paid or payable to the companys auditor,  LLP, is included in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements of BT plc.
