Notes to the consolidated financial statements 51 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual Goodwill arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs The recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs has been incurred in the initial contract set up, transition or transformation phase, determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations which is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
These costs require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over future revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating the remaining contract term, unless the pattern of service delivery cash ows for each CGU.
indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will generate As a result of the split of BT Retail into two separate businesses, future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular BT Business and BT Consumer, as set out on page 49, the BT Retail CGU basis.
was split into two separate CGUs, BT Consumer and BT Business.
Goodwill previously within BT Retail was reallocated accordingly.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial outcome performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 11. of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal Providing for doubtful debts to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is expected BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to nil.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
factors as the current state of the economy and particular industry issues.
Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 15. estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
3. significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these Multiple element arrangements consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, revenue stated.
is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements Revenue on the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate revenue Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or recognition criteria are applied to each element as described above.
receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable Operating and reportable segments that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the The groups operating segments are reported based on financial group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured information provided to the BT Group plc Operating Committee, as reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, it recognises detailed on page 2, which is the key management committee and revenue net of directly attributable costs.
represents the chief operating decision maker.
During the year, BT Retail split into two separate businesses, BT Business Services and BT Consumer.
The split enables BT to better serve its customers and Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is focus even more on delivering its strategic priorities.
Each of BT Business recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental and BT Consumer meet the criteria for operating and reportable of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly segments, as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The segment over the period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is recognised at disclosure reects this new structure.
the time the call is made over the groups network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and The groups organisational structure reects the different customer other internet access or voice services, are recognised as revenue as the groups to which it provides communications products and services via service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT Business, BT trafc between other telecommunications operators is recognised at the Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
The customer-facing lines of time of transit across the groups network.
business are supported by an internal service unit: BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
Equipment sales The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of the the customer.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups centralised functions including procurement and supply chain, eet and property Long-term contractual arrangements management.
Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements including xed price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised based on Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of the recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full contract such as the proportion of costs incurred relative to the impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results and offset in estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion such as the group results through the utilisation of the provision previously the achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as the significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the service is rendered.
denition of specic items as detailed on page 49.
52 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. significant accounting policies continued write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customer-facing lines account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
of business to reect the services it provides to them.
Depreciation and The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to the networks and systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer-facing lines of Land and buildings business is allocated to the lines of business based on their respective Freehold buildings 40 years utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT TSO for specic projects Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business is or 40 years, whichever is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure the shorter incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line Network infrastructure of business, capital expenditure is allocated between them based on the Transmission equipment proportion of estimated future economic benets.
BT TSO and the Duct 40 years groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as they did Cable 3 to 25 years not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Fibre 5 to 20 years Segments for any of the years presented.
Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on adjusted Other network equipment 2 to 20 years EBITDA, dened as EBITDA before specic items, as included in the Other assets internal financial reports reviewed by the BT Group plc Operating Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Committee.
EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or loss before Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of the operating Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the performance of the lines of business because it approximates the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and useful lives underlying operating cash ow by eliminating depreciation and are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised amortisation and also provides a meaningful analysis of trading prospectively.
performance by excluding specic items, which are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
Specic items are detailed in Intangible assets note 8 and are not allocated to the reportable segments as this reects Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls how they are reported to the BT Group plc Operating Committee.
the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to the Finance expense and income are not allocated to the reportable asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be reliably segments, as the central treasury function manages this activity, measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised over together with the overall net debt position of the group.
The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern Retirement benets cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value Goodwill of the plan assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualied actuary value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions at intangible assets of the acquired business.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business The income statement expense is allocated between an operating combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is expected to benefit charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge from the business combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting from the represents the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period and monitored for internal management purposes.
the costs of administering the plans.
The net finance income or expense reects the interest on the retirement benefit obligations recognised in Software the group balance sheet, based on the discount rate at the start of the Software comprises computer software licences purchased from third year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Computer which they occur and are presented in the group statement of software licences purchased from third parties are initially recorded at comprehensive income.
Costs directly associated with the production of internally developed software are capitalised only where it is probable that the The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and the software will generate future economic benets.
income statement expense represents the contributions payable for the year.
Telecommunications licences Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications Property, plant and equipment activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at cost Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment of the licence period.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from Customer relationships the continued use of the asset.
The difference between the sale Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recognised in at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in operating costs in the income statement.
estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment are acquired businesses.
direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to Notes to the consolidated financial statements 53 3. significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply in Estimated useful economic lives the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal categories rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
of intangible assets are as follows: Computer software 2 to 10 years Basis of consolidation Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Customer relationships and brands 5 to 15 years BT plc the company and its subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of associates and joint ventures using the equity Programme rights method of accounting.
Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for which the A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual commitments the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when the in note 14.
Payments made to receive commissioned or acquired investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes involvement with the Investee and has the ability to affect those returns are classied as prepayments.
through its power over the Investee.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised those interests at the date of the original business combination and from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, as combination, are not material to the groups financial statements.
The amortisation charge is recorded within operating costs in the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets at necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned with production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate portion the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group transactions including of relevant overheads, and charged to the income statement over the any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full period of the related broadcast.
Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out below.
disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the Related cash outows are classied as operating cash ows in the cash fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained ow statement.
interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling Provisions interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is normally recognised as a Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or specic item.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the Business combinations amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks and the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions are initially acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost acquirees identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease provisions are value at the acquisition date.
measured at the lower of the cost to full or to exit the contract.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured Current and deferred income tax at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and any over the net of the fair values of the identiable assets and generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions liabilities at the date of acquisition.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes Impairment of non-financial assets provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and be paid to tax authorities.
equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the carrying Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is performed, temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets and present value of the expected future cash ows value in use of the liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset relevant cash generating unit and the fair value less cost to sell.
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment losses taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable are recognised in the income statement, normally as a specic item.
If a entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated rstly Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be other assets.
suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. significant accounting policies continued the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The Government grants obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently that the conditions associated with the grants have been complied with measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
and the grants will be received.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and equipment the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the are deducted from the cost of the related assets and reduce future income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Grants for the reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the related category of costs Share-based payments in the income statement.
Government grants received relating to future The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc operates a number of expenditure are recognised as payments received in advance within equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the Other payables.
group receives services from employees in consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
Equity Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS 37 of grant excluding the effect of non market-based vesting Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and the impact of non-vesting conditions for example the Foreign currencies requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined at Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency the grant date is recognised as an expense on a straight line basis using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of options or shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are measured using either the Binomial options pricing model or Monte recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to the share-based reects the nature of the item or transaction.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the the case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure to cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation immediately recognised in the income statement.
As the requirement to reserve.
save under an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities condition, employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation difference Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income associated with the undertaking in the translation reserve is charged or statement reversing all previously recognised charges in the year in credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income which they lapse or are forfeited.
Termination benets Research and development Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including the accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The group cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable that the affected employees leaving the group.
economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical Financial instruments feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an Financial liabilities at amortised cost intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when the Trade and other payables asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development costs Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially include direct and indirect labour, materials and directly attributable recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, overheads.
and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is Loans and other borrowings based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings of a specic asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest right to use the asset.
method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting amortisation of fair value finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, are recognised in the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 55 3. significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting Available-for-sale investments Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any Liquid and other investments are classied as available-for-sale resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify for investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective both to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for changes in prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for effectiveness exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment at inception and in subsequent periods in which the hedge remains in losses, which are recognised in the income statement recognised in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualies for cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
income statement, in the line that most appropriately reects the nature The group designates certain derivatives as either cash ow hedges or of the item or transaction.
On disposal or impairment of the fair value hedges.
investments, any gains and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassied to the income statement.
Cash ow hedges Dividends on equity investments are recognised in the income When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly statement when the groups right to receive payment is established.
probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the expected to be sold within one year.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or Loans and receivables liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity Trade and other receivables and recognised in the same line of the income statement and in the Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the income usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried at statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less provisions recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions are made specically where income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
statement line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances Fair value hedges with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to cash When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and have an variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the rm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement at dened above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the included within loans and other borrowings, in current liabilities on the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments not yet Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss effective IFRS 9 Financial Instruments All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for trading and classied as fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was reissued in October 2010 and amended in November 2013.
It is applicable to financial assets and Derivative financial instruments financial liabilities.
The standard covers the classication, measurement The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The groups policy with a new hedge accounting model.
The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that to add new requirements for impairment.
The mandatory effective date for IFRS 9 is 1 January 2018.
The standard has not yet been endorsed do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specically not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate are initially recognised by the EU.
The group will consider the impact of IFRS 9 when the and subsequently measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Gains remaining phases of the IAS 39 Replacement Project are complete.
and losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income statement in Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or Liabilities transaction to which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are The amendments clarify existing application issues relating to the classied as current assets or current liabilities where they have a offsetting requirements.
Specically, the amendments clarify the maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-off and a instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, they are simultaneous realisation and settlement.
The amendments are classied within either non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
effective for the group from 1 April 2014.
The group does not expect Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition is not these changes to have a significant impact on the groups results or supported by observable market data and differs from the transaction financial position.
price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is not recognised in the There are no other standards or interpretations that are not yet effective income statement.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to that would be expected to have a material impact on the group.
the income statement based on the remaining contractual term and as observable market data becomes available.
