Parent company accounting policies 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Accounting basis telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term across the companys network.
company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
These separate financial statements of the company are presented as Equipment sales required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate financial Turnover from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
The principal accounting policies are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
Long-term contractual arrangements The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements, including xed under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised of certain financial instruments at fair value.
based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to Exemptions the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
31 March 2014 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of statement.
costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within debtors due after The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended more than one year.
These costs are then recognised in the profit 31 March 2014 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the and loss account on a straight line basis over the remaining contract company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic of the BT Group.
contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
31 March 2014 contain financial instruments disclosures which The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable measurement Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, turnover Changes in presentation of the financial statements is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that During the year, BT Retail was divided into two separate lines of such turnover is expected to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to business, BT Business and BT Consumer.
Segmental reporting within bring the margin to nil.
Recognised turnover and profits are subject the consolidated financial statements for the current and previous to revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the years has been revised to reect the new structure as have the cash overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
We have revised revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such balance sheet comparatives to present them on a consistent basis.
revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and Accrued income at 31 March 2013 increased by 53m, with a estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated turnover for a corresponding increase of 53m in deferred income.
There was no contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
impact on the results of the company resulting from these changes.
Multiple element arrangements ii Turnover Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when it is probable contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the the company and the amount of turnover and associated costs can appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element be measured reliably.
Where the company acts as an agent in a as described above.
transaction, it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
iii Research and development Services Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred evenly over the period to which it relates.
Turnover from calls is unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the recognised at the time the call is made over the companys network.
company from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other 96 Parent company accounting policies Research and development costs include direct and indirect labour, The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: materials and directly attributable overheads.
Land and buildings Freehold buildings 40 years iv Leases Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease or 40 years, lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires whichever is the shorter an assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the Network infrastructure arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Transmission equipment: Duct 40 years Leases of tangible xed assets where the company holds Cable 3 to 25 years substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as Fibre 5 to 20 years finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value Other network equipment 2 to 20 years of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in Other respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years interest method.
Software 2 to 10 years Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are the period of the lease.
v Foreign currencies viii Impairment of xed assets, intangible assets and goodwill Foreign currency transactions are translated into the reporting Fixed assets, intangible assets and goodwill are tested for currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the reporting date indicate that the carrying amount might not be settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and recoverable.
Goodwill is also reviewed for impairment at the end of liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange the first financial year after its initial recognition.
rates are recognised in the profit and loss account in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the vi Goodwill expected future cash ows value in use of the continued use of Goodwill arising from the purchase of businesses represents the the asset, and the fair value less cost to sell.
Impairment losses are excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair recognised in the profit and loss account.
value of the identiable net assets acquired.
ix Government grants Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have been normally presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
complied with and the grants will be received.
If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised Grants for the purchase or production of xed assets are deducted goodwill is included in the profit and loss account in the period of from the cost of the related assets and reduce future depreciation disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Grants for the reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the related category of costs in the vii Tangible xed assets profit and loss account.
Government grants received relating to Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost, net of any future expenditure are recognised as payments received in advance accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment within Other payables.
On disposal of tangible xed assets, the difference between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of x Investments in subsidiary undertakings disposal is recorded in operating costs in the profit and loss account.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment reviewed for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying are direct and indirect labour costs, materials, and directly value may not be recoverable.
Depreciation is provided on tangible xed assets on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for xi Stocks use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not and consumable items.
Equipment and consumable items are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
Parent company accounting policies 97 xii Programme rights measured using either the Binomial options pricing model or Monte Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to the share-based point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any contractual commitments in note 13.
Payments made to receive other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments right to broadcast the programmes are classied as prepayments.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting and all as appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded within remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the profit operating costs in the profit and loss account.
As the requirement to save under an employee sharesave arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee Programmes produced internally are recognised within current cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the profit and profit and loss account over the period of the related broadcast.
loss account reversing the previously recognised charges in the Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the year in which they lapse or are forfeited.
companys policy for impairment of xed assets, intangible assets and goodwill set out on page 96. xvi Current and deferred income tax Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted xiii Redundancy costs or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The company Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these interpretation, and the company establishes provisions where benets.
The company recognises redundancy or leaver costs appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised, in respect of timing differences between the carrying amount of the companys assets and liabilities and their xiv Post retirement benets tax base.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis The companys obligation in respect of dened benefit pension of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there plans is the present value of the dened benefit pension obligation will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the less the fair value of the plan assets.
The calculation of the foreseeable future against which the deductible timing difference obligation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected can be utilised.
unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, The profit and loss account charge is allocated between an based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not charge reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation discounted.
resulting from pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period.
The net finance income reects the expected return xvii Dividends on the assets of the plan offset by the unwinding of the discount Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in applied to the liabilities of the plan, based on conditions prevailing which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds.
The company also operates dened contribution pension schemes xviii Provisions and the profit and loss account charge represents the contributions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or payable for the year.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and xv Share-based payments the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that equity settled share-based arrangements, as detailed in note 19 to reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which the the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions company receives services from employees as consideration for are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at equity instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full or the date of grant excluding the effect of non market-based the cost to exit the contract.
vesting conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and the impact of non-vesting conditions for example the xix Financial instruments requirement for employees to save.
The fair value determined at Financial assets the grant date is recognised as an expense on a straight line basis Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss over the vesting period, based on the companys estimate of the A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired options or shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets at fair 98 Parent company accounting policies value through profit and loss are initially recognised and interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in value are re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the hedged recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any direct transaction risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce other than those for which the company may not recover exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The company substantially all of its initial investment, other than because of does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial credit deterioration, which are classied as available-for-sale.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction hedge accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in profit and loss account.
the profit and loss account in net finance expense.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or current Fixed asset investments liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period diminution in value.
greater than 12 months, they are classied within either xed assets or creditors falling due after more than one year.
Available-for-sale financial assets Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are resultant gain or loss depends upon the nature of the hedge.
either specically designated in this category or not classied in To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly initially recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no are recognised in the profit and loss account recognised in equity longer qualies for hedge accounting or the company chooses to until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the end the hedge relationship.
The group designates certain cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
the profit and loss account in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Cash ow hedges When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Debtors variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Financial assets within debtors are initially recognised at fair value, probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity in the carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or provisions made for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made specically liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from where there is evidence of a risk of non payment, taking into equity and recognised in the same line in the profit and loss account account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects conditions.
the profit and loss account.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised Cash immediately in the profit and loss.
Where ineffectiveness arises on Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the profit and loss account line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item Impairment of financial assets or transaction.
The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there Fair value hedges is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impairment unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows profit and loss account at each reporting date, together with any discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Financial liabilities Creditors Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation Financial liabilities within creditors are initially recognised at fair Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the method.
extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
Loans and other borrowings Any ineffectiveness arising on a hedge of a net investment in a Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus foreign operation is recognised in net finance expense.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
