Parent company accounting policies 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES i Accounting basis telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term across the companys network.
company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
These separate financial statements of the company are presented as Equipment sales required by the Companies Act 2006.
The separate financial Turnover from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by the customer.
The principal accounting policies are set out below and have been applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
Long-term contractual arrangements The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements, including xed under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised of certain financial instruments at fair value.
based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to Exemptions the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
31 March 2014 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual in FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, not to present its own cash ow arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of statement.
costs incurred in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within debtors due after The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended more than one year.
These costs are then recognised in the profit 31 March 2014 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the and loss account on a straight line basis over the remaining contract company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related term, unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with other members prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specic of the BT Group.
contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
31 March 2014 contain financial instruments disclosures which The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable measurement Consequently, the company is exempted from the disclosure of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial requirements of FRS 29 in respect of its financial instruments.
outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, turnover Changes in presentation of the financial statements is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that During the year, BT Retail was divided into two separate lines of such turnover is expected to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to business, BT Business and BT Consumer.
Segmental reporting within bring the margin to nil.
Recognised turnover and profits are subject the consolidated financial statements for the current and previous to revisions during the contract if the assumptions regarding the years has been revised to reect the new structure as have the cash overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
We have revised revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which such balance sheet comparatives to present them on a consistent basis.
revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and Accrued income at 31 March 2013 increased by 53m, with a estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated turnover for a corresponding increase of 53m in deferred income.
There was no contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
impact on the results of the company resulting from these changes.
Multiple element arrangements ii Turnover Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised when it is probable contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the the company and the amount of turnover and associated costs can appropriate turnover recognition criteria are applied to each element be measured reliably.
Where the company acts as an agent in a as described above.
transaction, it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
iii Research and development Services Research expenditure is recognised in the profit and loss account in Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised the profit and loss account in the period in which it is incurred evenly over the period to which it relates.
Turnover from calls is unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the recognised at the time the call is made over the companys network.
company from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other
