50 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of Preparation continued the IAS 19 Revised 2011 pension liability at 31 March 2014, and of management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee the income statement charge in 2014 15 to changes in these of BT Group plc.
Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled assumptions are disclosed in note 18. measures used by other companies.
Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software Specic items include disposals of businesses and investments, The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, business switching equipment operating for over ten years and underground restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, property ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and the settlement systems and platforms that supports the products and services provided of multiple tax years in a single payment.
to our customers and that is also used within the group.
The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the estimated Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 8. service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on the 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires plans including the groups bre rollout programme, prospective the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned.
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Changes to the service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2013 groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, had no significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended assumptions and judgements based on available information and 31 March 2014. experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
Management has The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures disclosed in notes 11 and 12.
The useful lives applied to the principal with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee.
The areas involving a categories of assets are disclosed on pages 52 and 53. higher degree of judgement or complexity are described below.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Long-term customer contracts As disclosed in note 17, the groups provisions principally relate to Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits may restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
Under be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract.
our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a number If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract will be of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to sub-let this unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of the cost immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract will be less of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any sub-lease profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully recognised as a provision.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Key factors reviewed include: The prices at which certain services are charged are regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators.
Estimates are used Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
For all risks, the which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be market position and other factors such as general economic dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to transition, development, transformation and deployment phases contingent liabilities see note 28 through assessing the likelihood that for customer contracts.
a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible The status of commercial relations with customers and the range of financial outcomes.
implication for future revenue and cost projections.
Our estimates of future staff and third-party costs and the degree Current and deferred income tax to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for the tax to be transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services paid on our past profits which we recognise in our financial statements.
contracts is disclosed in note 15.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years to Pension obligations resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension benets different from the estimates reected in the financial statements and to approximately 313,000 people over a period of more than 80 years.
may result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit in The accounting cost of these benets and the present value of our the income statement.
pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, price Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in ination and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our recognised, taking into account the expected timing and level of future financial statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and taxable income.
our judgement regarding future expectations.
The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is disclosed on The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2014, the key the balance sheet on page 46.
The carrying value of the groups financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the sensitivity of deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 9.
