82 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Valuation methodology Maintainable earnings balance reliability and relevance.
Investments are measured at the directors estimate of fair Generally, the latest historical accounts are used unless reliable value at the reporting date, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair forecast results for the current year are available.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset adjusted where appropriate for exceptional or non-recurring could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in items and an average of more than one years earnings may an arms length transaction.
be used to estimate maintainable earnings for cyclical or Publicly traded securities volatile businesses.
Investments listed in an active market are valued at their bid Net assets price on the reporting date.
When a bid price is unavailable, The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate for a the price of the most recent transaction will normally be used.
business whose value derives mainly from the underlying value Unlisted companies of its assets rather than its earnings, such as a property holding Unlisted company investments are valued by applying an company or an investment business.
It may also be appropriate appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum use of for a business that is not making an adequate return on assets market-based information, is consistent with models generally and for which a greater value can be realised by liquidating the used by market participants and is applied consistently from business and selling its assets.
A third party valuation may be period to period, except where a change would result in a better used to give the fair value of a certain asset or group of assets.
Fund interests The value of an unlisted company investment is generally Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to create crystallised through the sale or flotation of the entire business, a designated pool of capital to invest in a wider range of assets rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
Therefore, than is feasible for an individual investor and to share the costs the estimation of fair value is based on the assumed realisation and benefits.
of the underlying business at the reporting date, based on the Open-ended funds, including investment companies with International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, Guidelines December 2012.
Recognition is given to the which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate fair value.
uncertainties inherent in estimating the fair value of unlisted If the price reported by the fund is not available at the reporting companies and appropriate caution is applied in exercising date, the latest available price is used and may be adjusted to judgments and making the necessary estimates.
take account of changes or events to the reporting date.
Enterprise value is normally determined using one of the Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment companies following valuation methodologies: and limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value Price of recent investment estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value Where the investment being valued was recently acquired of the underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports or a recent transaction has taken place, its cost or transaction may be used where there is evidence that the valuation is price will generally provide a good indication of fair value.
derived using fair value principles and may be adjusted to take This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited account of changes or events to the reporting date.
Adjustment period after the date of the relevant transaction.
may also be necessary for features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as performance fees or Multiples carried interest.
This methodology involves the application of an earnings multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business and is Other investments likely to be appropriate for an investment in an established Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or business with an identifiable stream of continuing earnings.
facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments that are The earnings multiple used is determined by reference to not publicly traded and do not form part of an investment in an market-based multiples appropriate for the business and unlisted company.
For such investments, appropriate valuation correlating to the period and calculation of earnings of the techniques are adopted and used consistently.
The aim is to identify comparator companies that are similar in terms of risk and growth prospects to the company being valued.
Earnings multiples are adjusted for points of difference between the comparator and the company being valued where appropriate, including the ability of Caledonia to effect change in the company and risks associated with holding an unlisted share.
