64 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Significant accounting policies The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company General information and the group have adequate resources to continue in Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company operational existence for the foreseeable future, as discussed domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England on page 56.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going in 1928, under the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address concern basis of preparing the financial statements.
of its registered office is Cayzer House, 30 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6NN.
The ordinary shares of the company are Adopted IFRSs premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In the current year, the group has adopted the following standards and amendments: These financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 28 May 2014.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements These financial statements are presented in pound sterling, IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities as this is the currency of the primary economic environment IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements in which Caledonia operates.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised 2011 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Fair values of financial instruments IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Many of the groups financial instruments are measured at IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement fair value in the statement of financial position and it is usually possible to determine their fair values within a reasonable IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
IFRS 10 provides that an investment entity shall not consolidate For the majority of the groups financial instruments, quoted its subsidiaries or apply IFRS 3 when it obtains control of market prices are readily available.
However, certain financial another entity.
Instead IFRS 10 requires that an investment instruments, such as unlisted securities, are fair valued using entity shall measure an investment in a subsidiary at fair value valuation techniques, including reference to the current fair through profit or loss.
Subsidiaries that provide investment values of instruments that are substantially the same subject related services or activities either to the entity or a third party to appropriate adjustments.
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, In addition, IFRS 10 redefines the term control for the purpose based on market conditions and information about the financial of identifying if an investor controls an investee.
These estimates are subjective in nature and involve controls another entity, the parent company shall include the uncertainties and matters of significant judgement e. g. interest subsidiary in full in its consolidated financial statements.
Under rates, volatility, estimated cash flows and therefore cannot be the new definition, control is established if the potential parent determined with precision.
entity has power over the potential subsidiary investee as a result of voting rights or other rights and actual circumstances, Significant accounting policies is exposed or has rights to positive or negative variable returns Basis of accounting from its involvement with the investee, and above all has the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance ability to use its power over the investee to affect significantly with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the amount of its returns.
as adopted for use in the EU and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRS 12 sets out the disclosure requirements for interests IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the in other entities.
This standard requires a much wider range International Accounting Standards Board and its predecessor of disclosures than previously required by the rules set out body as well as interpretations issued by the International in IAS 27, IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body.
IFRS 13 sets out in a single IFRS a unified framework for measuring fair value in financial statements prepared in The financial statements have been prepared on an historical accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial and enhances quantitative disclosures.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial IAS 19R relates to accounting for defined benefit pension Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital obligations and requires a net interest amount to be calculated Trusts SORP issued by the Association of Investment by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability Companies in January 2009 is consistent with the requirements or assets, in place of the interest cost on scheme liabilities and of IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the directors have sought to the expected return on scheme assets.
There was no overall prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the change in the net assets of the group.
IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 19R were applied retrospectively and The statement of comprehensive income of the company has the prior period impact of adopting these new standards and been omitted from these financial statements in accordance amendments is shown in note 28. with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS 13 is applied prospectively and the remaining standards Under The UK Corporate Governance Code and applicable have no significant impact on the net assets, financial position regulations, the directors are required to satisfy themselves that or reported results of the group.
it is reasonable to presume that the company is a going concern.
Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 65 The companys share of net income from limited partnerships IFRSs not yet applied is recognised as revenue when received.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standard, which has not been applied in these Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount financial statements, was in issue but not yet effective.
already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the amount in respect of which the recovery has ceased to be IFRS 9 Financial Instruments probable, is recognised as an expense.
When the uncertainty The directors anticipate that the adoption of this standard over collectability is removed, normally on receipt, the income in future periods will have no material impact on the is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Expenses Basis of consolidation All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
In the The consolidated financial statements include the financial financial statements, management expenses and performance statements of the company and service entities controlled by fees are included in revenue reserves.
Expenses of acquisition the company made up to the reporting date.
Control is achieved of an investment designated as held at fair value through profit where the company has the power over the potential investee or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or disposal of an as a result of voting rights or other rights, has rights to positive investment are presented as transaction costs or deducted or negative variable returns from its involvement with the from the proceeds of sale as appropriate and included in investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee capital reserves.
to affect significantly the amount of its returns.
Operating leases Foreign currencies Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Employee benefits and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting Pension schemes date are translated to the functional currency at the foreign Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an exchange rate ruling at the reporting date.
Non-monetary assets expense as they fall due.
and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary determined using the projected unit credit method, with assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values which they occur.
They are recognised in other comprehensive were determined.
income and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
In the financial statements, foreign exchange gains or losses are Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that recognised in capital or revenue reserve depending on whether the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as revenue The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the statement when the shareholders right to receive payment has been of financial position represents the present value of the defined established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where no ex-dividend benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service date is available, dividends receivable on or before the period end cost and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset are treated as revenue for the period.
Provision is made for any resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, dividends not expected to be received.
plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity future contributions to the plan.
shares are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which Profit sharing and bonus plans is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets profit sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration net carrying amount.
the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where lease term.
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
66 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable that certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of measured at fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is the assets to be recovered.
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Dividend distribution on the groups estimate of the number of shares that will Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are eventually vest.
appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the entity.
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date equity instruments of its parent as consideration for the services on which they are paid and, for final dividends, the date on which provided to the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises an equitythey are approved in general meeting.
settled share-based payment transaction expense with a Investments corresponding increase recognised in equity representing Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date a contribution from the parent.
where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract An employee share trust is used for distributing option and whose terms require delivery of the investment within the performance share and deferred bonus awards to employees timeframe established by the market concerned and are initially under Caledonias share remuneration schemes.
The trustee measured at cost, excluding transaction costs.
purchases shares with money lent interest free by Caledonia Investments held as part of the groups business of investing and transfers shares to participating employees on receipt in financial assets are designated as measured at fair value of the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
through profit or loss in both the consolidated financial The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are statements and the company financial statements.
considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Investments designated as held at fair value through profit Caledonia.
The transactions of the employee share trust are or loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair included in the separate financial statements of the parent value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the value of company and, following the requirements of IFRS 10, in the investments designated as held at fair value through profit or consolidated financial statements as if they arose in that loss, including foreign exchange movements, are included in net company.
Own shares held by the employee share trust as at the profit or loss for the period as a capital return.
reporting date are accounted for as if they were treasury shares.
Listed investments are valued at bid price or the last traded National Insurance on share option scheme gains and performance price when a bid price is not available.
Unlisted investments share and deferred bonus awards are valued using recognised valuation methodologies, based on National Insurance payable on the exercise of certain employee the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation share options and performance share awards at the date of Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset could be exercise and deferred bonus awards at the date of call have exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an arms been charged as an expense spread over the respective vesting length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is detailed periods.
The charge is based on the difference between the on page 82. market value of the underlying shares at the reporting date and the exercise price for share options or nil for performance Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated share awards and deferred bonus awards and calculated as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature of at the latest enacted National Insurance rate.
Any surplus capital distributions after repaying partners capital are treated as realised gains.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable Derivative financial instruments and deferred tax.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value of statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other of comprehensive income as they arise.
periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable Capital reserve or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated The company maintains a capital reserve.
The following items using tax rates that were applicable at the reporting date.
are transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable gains and losses on investments held at fair value through on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and profit or loss liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are of investments recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable to capital transactions profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Investment trust companies that taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
have approval as such under section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 67 Property, plant and equipment Borrowings Property is held at fair value.
Gains arising from changes Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at in the fair value of property are included in other the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
comprehensive income for the period in which they arise.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement To the extent gains represent reversal of cumulative losses or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an previously recognised they are included in profit or loss.
accrual basis in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
in the period in which they arise.
The effective interest method Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, allocates the interest expense over the life of the instrument other than land or properties under construction, over their so as to reflect a constant return on the carrying amount of estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the the liability.
following bases: Provisions Plant 10-15 years A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position Equipment 3-8 years when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date in the statement of comprehensive income.
and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Impairment of assets In the financial statements, provisions recognised for investments At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts are included in the statement of comprehensive income as a of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is capital return.
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised Share capital for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded as recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust Receivables purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the estimated irrecoverable amounts.
companys owners until the shares are transferred.
Where such shares are subsequently transferred, any consideration received, Cash and cash equivalents net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash and the related income tax effects, is included in equity equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that attributable to the companys owners.
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Operating segments Operating segments are based on the financial information reported to the chief operating decision maker.
