The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report which Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 must be fair, balanced and understandable, the Directors Each of the Directors, who are listed on page 16, confirms that, to Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance the best of his knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
the Companys financial statements, which havebeen prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements accordance with UK Accounting Standards on a going concern for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared basis, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial the Company financial statements in accordance with UK position and profit of the Company: and Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they the Strategic Report and financial statements include a fair review give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the development and performance of the business and the ofthe net return or loss of the Company for that year.
In preparing position of the Company, together with a description of the thesenancial statements, the Directors are required to: principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them For and on behalf of the Board of Directors.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Philip Remnant CBE and prudent: Chairman 17 September 2014 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that thenancial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have www.
com which is a website maintained occurred to the financial statements since they were initially byHenderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and of Henderson: the work carried out by the Auditors does not dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the other jurisdictions.
