The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 on a going concern basis and under the historical cost basis of accounting, as modied to include the revaluation of investments and derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and with the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC in January 2009.
The Companys subsidiaries, as detailed in note 12 are dormant and immaterial and therefore consolidated accounts are not produced.
The Companys accounting policies are consistent with the prior year.
Going concern The assets of the Company consist of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the Board has determined that it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Valuation of investments Listed investments are valued at fair value deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Unquoted investments including the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued by the Directors using primary valuation techniques such as earnings multiples, recent transactions and net assets.
Where fair value cannot reliably be measured the investment will be carried at the previous reporting date value unless there is evidence that the investment has since been impaired, in which case the value will be reduced.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Income Statement as Gains losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade date basis.
Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentation currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to capital or to the revenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are taken to the revenue return on an ex-dividend basis except where, in the opinion of the Directors, the dividend is capital in nature in which case it is taken to the capital return.
Bank interest and stock lending revenue are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The ordinary element of scrip dividends received in lieu of cash dividends is recognised as revenue.
Any enhancement above the cash dividend is treated as capital.
Where the Company enters into a commitment to underwrite an issue of securities in exchange for the receipt of commission, this creates a derivative financial instrument.
Any such derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and are subsequently re-measured at fair value, with the related gains and losses being reected in the Income Statement.
Net losses arising from these derivatives, where the actual or expected loss from taking up the securities underwritten exceeds the commission income, are allocated to the capital return.
Net gains are allocated to the revenue return.
Fees earned from stock lending are accounted for on an accruals basis and shown in the revenue return based on amounts to which the Company is entitled.
This is after deduction of amounts withheld by the counterparty arranging the stock lending facility.
The accounting for option premium income is dealt with on page 42, under Derivative financial instruments.
40 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Management and administrative expenses and finance charges All expenses and finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis.
In accordance with the Boards expectation, over the long term, that investment returns will be attributable 70% to capital and 30% to revenue, the Company charges to capital 70% of the finance charges excluding dividends payable on the preference and preferred ordinary stocks and management fees with the remaining 30% being charged to revenue.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is calculated using the effective tax rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented against capital returns in the supplementary information in the Income Statement is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return column of the Income Statement, then no tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of timing differences can be deducted.
Any liability to deferred tax is provided at the average rate of tax expected to apply based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to reect the time value of money.
Borrowings Overdrafts, debentures and secured notes are recorded initially at fair value, being the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including interest payable, premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Preference stocks Under FRS 25 preference and preferred ordinary stocks are classied as debt.
The dividends associated with the preference and preferred ordinary stocks are charged fully to the Companys revenue return within finance charges.
Dividends payable to shareholders Dividends payable to shareholders are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid or, in the case of final dividends, when they are approved by shareholders.
Dividends are dealt with in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
Issue and repurchase of ordinary shares and associated costs The proceeds from the issue of new ordinary shares including those relating to the sale of shares out of treasury and the aggregate cost of repurchasing ordinary shares including those to be held in treasury are taken directly to equity and dealt with in the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds.
Issue costs incurred in respect of new ordinary shares are offset against the proceeds received and dealt with in the share premium account.
Issue costs incurred in respect of shares sold out of treasury are offset against proceeds received and dealt with in other capital reserves.
Share issue and repurchase transactions are accounted for on a trade date basis.
