The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on the record date will Directive AIFMD receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before Issued by the European Parliament and written into UK legislation, the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset the AIFMD classies certain investment vehicles, including value will be disclosed ex-dividend.
investment companies, as Alternative Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund Manager Gearing AIFM and Depositary to manage and oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The Board of the Company retains The gearing percentage reects the amount of borrowings i. e. bank responsibility for strategy, operations and compliance and the loans or overdrafts the Company has used to invest in the market.
Directors retain a duciary duty to shareholders.
This gure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if the Companys investments were to rise or fall.
This is calculated by taking the difference between quoted investments Association of Investment Companies AIC including written call options and equity shareholders funds divided The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for by equity shareholders funds and multiplied by 100. investment companies and represents the industry in relation to various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
Investment trusts Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Benchmark Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally A measure against which performance is compared.
For the managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from Company this is the size weighted average of the AIC UK Equity tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to Income sector.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also known as investment companies, although the tax legislation retains Custodian the reference to investment trusts.
The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the Companys assets and ensuring that all transactions in the underlying Liquidity holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
Depositary Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid, that With effect from 22 July 2014 all AIFs were required to appoint a share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing the operations of should nd ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is the Company including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verication illiquid the difficulty of nding a buyer will tend to depress the price of ownership and valuation.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the that might be negotiated for a sale.
loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has notied that it is has discharged its liability in certain markets.
Net Asset Value NAV per ordinary share TheDepositary has confirmed that it has not discharged liability inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
The value of the Companys assets i. e. investments and cash held less any liabilities i. e. bank borrowings and debt securities for which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares in Derivative issue.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders funds A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying on the Balance Sheet.
The value of a derivative will uctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the uctuations The NAV is published daily.
in value are usually greater than the uctuations in the underlying securitys value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, Ongoing Charges swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Ongoing Charges reect those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or Dividend dates revenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which investments, nancing charges and gains or losses arising on shareholders will receive their dividend, either by BACS transfer or by investments.
Ongoing charges are based on actual costs incurred in receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the dividend the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which 20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Glossary continued Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
Total Return Performance This is the return on the share price or NAV taking into account both the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends and interest paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price total return or the Companys assets for NAV total return.
Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Warning to shareholders Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to calls would relate only to ofcial documentation already circulated be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
please contact the Company Secretary on the telephone number detailed on page17.
