Company accounting policies Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has not been presented.
Adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework Following the publication of FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements by the Financial Reporting Council, Bodycote plc is required to change its accounting framework for its entity financial statements, which is currently UK GAAP, for its financial year commencing 1 January 2015.
The Board considers that it is in the best interest of Bodycote plc to adopt FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
A shareholder or shareholders may serve objections to the use of the disclosure exemptions on Bodycote plc, in writing, to its registered office Springwood Court, Springwood Close, Tytherington Business Park, Macclesfield SK10 2XF not later than 22 April 2015.
Going concern The directors have at the time of approving the financial statements a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Finance Directors report on page 23.
Investments Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period.
Pension costs For defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
For further details see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Leases Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The Company as lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Companys net investment in the leases.
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Companys net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, to reduce the carrying value to the estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following annual rates: Fixtures and fittings 10% to 20% Software 20% to 33% Residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
Taxation Current UK corporation tax and foreign tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Company accounting policies continued Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions not to disclose transactions or balances with wholly-owned entities of the Group.
Share-based payments The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 Share-based Payment.
The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimates with a corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve.
116 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2
