Other information Glossary Term Definition Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally be designed to include no margin for optimism or, conversely, caution.
AIP Annual Incentive Plan Available-for-sale AFS Financial assets that are classified as available for sale.
Please refer to the accounting policy investment note 1.12 on page 111.
BAYE Buy-As-You-Earn Capital The funds invested in the Group, including funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year.
Claims reserve provision Funds the Group sets aside to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related for losses and lossexpenses that the Group considers it will ultimately need to pay.
adjustment expense Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts.
Combined operating The sum of the loss, expense and commission ratios.
The ratio is a measure of the amount of ratio COR claims costs and expenses compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates profitable business.
Commission Amounts paid to brokers, partners and PCWs for generating business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Current-year attritional The loss ratio for the current accident year, excluding the impact of movement of claims loss ratio reserves relating to previous accident years, and claims relating to major weather events in the Home division.
DAIP Deferred Annual Incentive Plan Discontinued operations The Group reached a binding agreement with Mapfre, S. A. to sell the Groups International division, see notes 1 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, on pages 108 and 133 respectively.
DL4B Direct Line for Business is an extension of the Direct Line brand.
It is our direct commercial insurance brand for small-sized businesses in the UK that have straightforward commercial insurance requirements.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company.
ERB Employee Representative Body Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings.
Financial Conduct The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers.
It helps put the interests of Authority FCA customers and the integrity of the market at the core of what insurance, and other financial service, providers do.
FRC Financial Reporting Council Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board Incurred but not reported Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have taken place, but have not yet IBNR been reported to us.
Incurred loss Claims that have been paid plus claims advised by a policyholder, but not yet paid.
Does not include IBNR, see above.
ICA Individual capital assessment ICAS Individual capital adequacy standards ICAS Introduced by the PRA in 2013, ICAS is an extension of the ICAS regime.
It allows firms to use their developing Solvency II frameworks, particularly the internal model.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay, following a valid insurance claim.
Initial public offering The first sale of shares by a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities exchange.
IPO Insurance reserves This comprises insurance liabilities and the liability-adequacy reserve.
Together, these amount to the reserves an insurance company maintains to meet current and future claims.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 169 Glossary continued Term Definition Investment income yield The annualised investment income earned through the income statement during the period, divided by the average assets under management AUM for each asset class during the same period.
Investment income excludes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments, while the average AUM for the period is derived from the periods opening and closing balances.
Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio.
This includes unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fair-value adjustments.
Investment return yield The total annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period.
This includes items such as unrealised and realised gains and losses, impairments and fairvalue adjustments, divided by the average AUM for each asset class during the same period.
Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus An arrangement that permits the forfeiture of unvested remuneration awards, in circumstances the Company considers appropriate.
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period where insurance cover has already been provided.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish Ministers, and used to calculate lump-sum awards in bodily injury cases.
Ongoing operations Includes the Groups ongoing segments: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, and Commercial.
It excludes the International division, the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit generated by the Groups activities, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Periodic payment order These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs are used to settle PPO large personal injury claims.
They generally provide claimants who require long-term care with a lump sum award plus inflation-linked annual payments.
Prudential Regulation The Prudential Regulation Authority is a part of the Bank of England.
It is responsible for the Authority PRA prudential regulation and supervision of insurers and financial institutions in the UK.
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements where the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to another insurer.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company by average ordinary shareholders equity for the period.
Return on tangible equity Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by the RoTE Groups average shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude the International division, which is classified as discontinued operations, the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs, and is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate.
Risk mix Risk mix reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio.
It measures the estimated movement based on risk models used in that period and is revised when risk models are updated.
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business, but continues to meet its claims liabilities under existing contracts.
SME Small and medium-sized enterprises Solvency II The proposed capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry to become effective on 1 January 2016, which establishes a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk-management standards.
It comprises three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer: Pillar II, which focuses on systems of governance: and Pillar III, which deals with disclosure requirements.
Total Shareholder Return Compares the movement in the share price together with reinvested dividends as a percentage TSR of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Underwriting result The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance.
It is calculated profit loss as net earned premium less net insurance claims and total expenses.
170 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 170 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
