Other information Additional information Corporate website Shareholder enquiries The Groups corporate website is www.
Shareholders with queries on any matter relating to their shares It contains additional useful information for the Companys can contact our Registrar using the contact details listed on investors and shareholders, including press releases, page 172 of this Annual Report & Accounts.
forthcoming events, essential shareholder information, dividend Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in history, a financial calendar, and details of the Companys shareholding details, such as their address, as soon as possible.
You can also subscribe for email news alerts.
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details Market online at www.
Investor Centre The Company has a premium listing on the UK Listing is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website that enables Authoritys Official List.
The Companys Ordinary Shares, shareholders to manage their holdings online.
The website exchange price information code EPIC : DLG, are admitted allows shareholders to: to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Check their holdings Share ownership Update their records including address and direct Share capital credit details You can find details of the Companys share capital in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a personal account Dividends Vote online The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value for shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, rating Register to receive electronic shareholder communications agency and policyholder requirements.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy for the Company.
This will aim to The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder increase the dividend annually in real terms to reflect its cash Reference Number, which can be found on their share flow generation and long-term earnings potential.
certificate, to access this information.
It is expected that one-third of the annual dividend will Shareholder warning generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend, Five thousand people contact the FCA about share fraud each and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second year, with victims losing an average of 20,000. quarter of the following year.
The Board may revise the dividend policy from time to time.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that transpire Additionally, if the Board believes the Group has capital surplus to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated to the Boards view of its requirements, it is intended that such price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are excess capital will be returned to shareholders.
The Company promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way, you will may consider a special dividend and or a repurchase of its probably lose your money.
own shares to distribute surplus capital to shareholders.
How to avoid share fraud The Company pays its dividends in Pounds Sterling to Remember that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to shareholders registered on its register of members at the contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares relevant record date.
Do not start conversing with them.
Note the name of the person and firm contacting you, then end the call Shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate Check the Financial Services Register at www.
This is available from the Companys registrar, see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised by Computershare Investor Services PLC Registrar, in the UK.
the FCA You can find the Registrars contact details on page 172.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, Alternatively, shareholders may access their shareholdings copying its website or giving you false contact details online and download a dividend mandate form from the Investor Centre.
You can find details of this on page 172.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call them back Dividend Reinvestment Plan Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP that contact details on the Register or you are told they are out gives shareholders the opportunity to use their cash dividends of date to buy the Companys Ordinary Shares in the market.
You can find further details on the Companys website.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk scams Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 167 Additional information continued Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised Dealing facilities firm, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer their shares through a Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the Registrars share dealing facility.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money You can call or email the Registrar regarding its share-dealing Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is facility using the following contact information: Report a scam For telephone sales, call 44 0 870 703 0084 between If fraudsters approach you, please tell the FCA using the share 8.30 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding fraud reporting form at www.
This web public holidays page also provides more information about investment scams.
For internet sales log on to www.
You will need your You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on Shareholder Reference Number as shown on your share 0800 111 6768. certificate or your welcome letter from the Chairman If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, contact Financial calendar Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
2015 Tips on how you can protect your shares Date Event Keep all your certificates in a safe place.
Alternatively, 3 March Preliminary Results Announcement 2014 consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic 1 12 March Ex-dividend date for 2014 interim registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, or via and second special interim dividends a nominee 1 13 March Record date for 2014 interim and Keep correspondence from the Registrar that shows your second special interim dividends shareholder reference number in a safe place, and shred 1 17 April Payment date for 2014 interim and unwanted correspondence second special dividends 2 Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address 6 May Interim Management Statement for the first quarter of 2015 If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 13 May Annual General Meeting of address and you have not recently moved, contact 2 them immediately 4 August Half Year Report 2015 2 13 August Ex-dividend date for 2015 interim Be aware of when the dividends are paid and contact the dividend Registrar if you do not receive your dividend 2 14 August Record date for 2015 interim dividend Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank 2 11 September Payment date for 2015 interim dividend account.
You will need to fill out a dividend mandate form 2 3 November Interim Management Statement for the and send it to the Registrar.
This reduces the risk of cheques third quarter of 2015 being stolen or lost in the post If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of Annual General Meeting your new account details immediately The 2015 AGM will be held on 13 May 2015 at The If you are buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers Auditorium, Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London registered in the UK or in your country of residence E1 6AD, starting at 11.00 am.
All shareholders will receive a separate notice convening the AGM, which will explain the Be aware that the Company will never call you concerning resolutions to be put to the meeting.
If you receive such a call from a person purporting to represent the Company, please contact the Company Secretary immediately Electronic communications and voting The Group produces a range of communications which shareholders can view online, download or receive a paper copy by contacting the Registrar.
You can find the Registrars contact details on page 172.
Shareholders who register their email address with our Registrar or at the Investor Centre can learn of events by email, such as the AGM, and receive shareholder communications like the Annual Report & Accounts, and Notice of Meeting.
The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.
These dates are subject to change.
168 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 168 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
