Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information 2013.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company and has the ability to affect those returns through its power incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another entity, registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are Bromley, BR1 1DP, England.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
Accounting policies Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the Basis of preparation financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of policies used into line with those used by the Group.
the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements The policies set out below have been applied consistently are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB throughout the years ended 31 December 2014 and as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements have been 31 December 2013 to items considered material to the prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs consolidated financial statements.
A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial The consolidated financial statements are prepared on statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the the historical cost basis except for AFS financial assets, date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of a investment property and derivative financial instruments, subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent which are measured at fair value.
liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements at fair value.
The Companys financial statements and the Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared using The International segment has been classified as a consistent accounting policies.
discontinued operation: accordingly the income statement has been re-presented in respect of the prior period and 1.2 Foreign currencies International assets and liabilities have been presented as The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented a disposal group.
in Pounds Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
Group entities record transactions in the currency Adoption of new and revised standards of the primary economic environment in which they operate The following standards and amendments have been adopted their functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange in the year and have not had a material impact on the Groups rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and financial statements: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into IAS 19 amended, Employee Benefits.
Introduces a narrowthe relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates scope amendment, to simplify the accounting for employee ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences contributions in respect of defined benefit plans that are arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions independent of the number of years of service.
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are reported in the income statement except for differences that IAS 32 amended, Financial Instruments: Presentation arise on hedges of net investments in foreign operations, Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
These which were reported in other comprehensive income.
amendments address previous inconsistencies when applying Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies the offsetting criteria in IAS 32. that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant IAS 36 amended, Impairment of Assets Recoverable functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
These dates the values are determined.
Translation differences arising amendments clarify the scope of certain disclosures around the on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised recoverable amount of impaired assets.
in the income statement except for differences arising on AFS non-monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other IAS 39 amended, Financial Instruments: Recognition and comprehensive income.
These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Pounds Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended, Investment Entities.
Income and expenses of foreign These amendments define an exception to consolidating operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at average particular subsidiaries for investment entities.
exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Clarifies how an entity should account for exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign liabilities to pay levies imposed by governments.
operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in equity is 1.1 Basis of consolidation reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation.
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled by the Group at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 108 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 10 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 1.3 Contract classification Other operating income Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group Vehicle replacement referral income the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, Income is recognised immediately when the customer or it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised 1.4 Revenue recognition as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision Premiums earned of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided as the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and by contracts incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an always determinable.
unearned premium provision, which represents the proportion The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services of the premiums incepted in prior periods and that relate to provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect periods of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the Unearned premiums are calculated over the period of exposure service.
The price is determined using market rates for the under the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for services and materials used after discounts have been the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, Other income but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
Legal services revenue represents the amount charged to clients for professional services provided during the year including The long-term assurance contracts that the Group wrote expenses but excluding value added tax.
Revenue is only included whole-life and term assurance contracts that were recognised once services have been provided and certainty expected to remain in force for an extended period of time.
exists as to the outcome of the respective cases.
The contracts insured events associated with human life for example, death or the occurrence of a critical illness.
1.5 Insurance claims These were recognised as revenue when they became Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in payable by the contract holder.
Premiums were shown which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of before the deduction of commission.
settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage Investment return and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are Interest income on financial assets is determined using the not discounted for the time value of money except for claims effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003. method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a A UK court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in financial asset or group of financial assets and of allocating respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of the interest income over the expected life of the asset.
In the personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly case of financial assets classified as AFS, estimates are based or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more on the straight-line method, which is a close approximation detail in note 2.1.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims to the effective interest rate.
handling expenses are also included.
Rental income from investment property is recognised in Provisions are determined by management based on the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period experience of claims settled and on statistical models of the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change which require certain assumptions to be made regarding in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific Instalment income factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating Instalment income comprises the interest income earned the total provision required, the historical development of on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, are settled by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is within acceptable probability parameters, the value of earned using an effective interest rate method over the term outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets deemed not recoverable.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims which they relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred cost adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods accounting period to match the extent to which premiums based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted written during the year are unearned at the balance takes into account the nature, type and significance of the sheet date.
business and the type of data available, with large claims generally being assessed separately.
The data used for The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs reconciled to the accounting data.
associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from the of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less assumed.
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on above the actuarial best estimate.
This amount is recorded the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as claims provisions.
is included in the balance sheet category goodwill and other intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses carrying value of any related goodwill.
attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the reinsurance.
The expected value is determined by reference to assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately expenses.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: by reference to classes of business that are managed together after taking account of relevant investment returns.
Software development costs 5 years 1.6 Reinsurance Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
of internal-use computer software and associated business processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal economic viability have been established.
These costs include course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the generally accounted for in the same accounting period as software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same against the projected benefits that the software is expected to accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance as are all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable licences to use computer software that is expected to generate from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant 1.9 Property, plant and equipment reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are Items of property, plant and equipment except investment discounted for the time value of money.
property note 1.11 are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where an item of A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of property, plant and equipment comprises major components reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance having different useful lives, they are accounted for separately.
asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit rating has been downgraded significantly.
This also includes an assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions to reflect the counterparty risk exposure to long-term reinsurance assets particularly in relation to periodical payments.
This is affected by the Group reducing the carrying value of the asset accordingly and the impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
110 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a Investment property is derecognised when it has been either straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount disposed of or permanently withdrawn from use and no future of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful economic benefit is expected from disposal.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are residual value.
Estimated useful lives recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement are as follows: or disposal.
1.12 Financial assets Freehold and long 50 years or the period of the Financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity, AFS, leasehold buildings lease if shorter designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and Vehicles 3 years receivables.
The Group only has AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
Computer equipment Up to 5 years AFS Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years Financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables property adaptation costs are classified as AFS.
Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition.
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of They are subsequently measured at fair value.
Impairment property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary AFS financial amount of the item.
assets are recognised in the income statement, together with 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, interest calculated using the effective interest rate method.
plant and equipment Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets are At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is reported in a separate component of shareholders equity any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognised plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication in the income statement.
exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent of those A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which the exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been a significant change in economic circumstances since the time If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised of the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest immediately in the income statement and the carrying value rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or reference to current prices or rates for similar financial property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises instruments, as appropriate.
provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the The valuation methodology described above uses observable carrying amount that would have been determined had no market data.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
1.11 Investment property Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market Investment property comprises freehold and long-leasehold transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital if available, reference to the current fair value of another appreciation or both.
Investment property is not depreciated, instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent flow analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for technique commonly used by market participants to price similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to each property.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market value is recognised in the income statement.
transactions, the Group uses that technique.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision is calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all Loans and receivables balances outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable provision is made.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, repayments that are not quoted in an active market are the outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income classified as loans and receivables, except those that are statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the classified as AFS.
Loans and receivables are initially income statement.
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Derivatives and hedging effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance premiums are determined from quoted prices in active markets where where the policyholders have elected to pay in instalments, or available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, amounts due from third parties where they have collected or fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
Receivables also include amounts due in respect of the Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a provision of legal services.
derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement Impairment of financial assets unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there hedge.
The Group enters into a number of hedge relationships is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of for cash flow and fair value hedges.
Previously the Group financial assets classified as AFS or loans and receivables is entered into hedge relationships for net investments.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the way asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during cash flows from the asset.
If the hedge is not highly effective in AFS offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values attributable When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented risk as AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income In the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, statement.
The loss is measured as the difference between the the portion of foreign exchange differences arising on the amortised cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
hedging instrument determined to be an effective hedge were Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed recognised directly in equity, where they remain until disposal through profit or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are or partial disposal of the associated subsidiaries.
Any reversed, if there is an increase in fair value that is objectively ineffective portion was recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent increases in the fair Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may value of AFS other investment funds were recognised in equity.
have been the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
Loans and receivables In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged initial recognition.
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item.
Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the ownership of the asset.
impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
112 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured note 32, was closed in 2003.
Scheme liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method 1.14 Financial liabilities and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and of transaction costs incurred.
Other than derivatives which currency to the scheme liabilities.
are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the effective interest rate method.
the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under The current service cost and any past service costs, together the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses 1.15 Subordinated liabilities are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated guaranteed the income statement and presented in other comprehensive dated notes which are initially measured at the consideration income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently received less related transaction costs.
Subsequently, to the income statement.
subordinated liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
1.19 Taxation The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently 1.16 Provisions payable or receivable and deferred tax.
The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, statement because it excludes items of income or expense that such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes Motor Insurance Bureau.
items that are never taxable or deductible.
When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected charged or credited to components of other comprehensive future economic benefit.
In respect of leasehold properties, income and equity, as appropriate.
a provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been sheet liability method on all temporary differences between communicated to those affected and the future property the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits.
purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
1.17 Leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not the lease.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued 1.22 Dividends Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in equity 1.20 Share-based payments in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on The Group operates a number of share-based compensation Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been plans under which it awards Company shares and share approved at the AGM.
Such awards are generally subject to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares 1.23 Accounting developments to which an employee is entitled.
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments that will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring the and Measurement in its entirety.
The classification and employee to complete a specified period of service and measurement of financial assets and liabilities will be directly performance conditions requiring the employee to meet linked to the nature of the instruments contractual cash flows and specified performance targets.
the business model employed by the holder of the instrument.
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation The standard introduces a new expected loss model that is techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free a departure from the current incurred loss model.
The model interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
requires a 12 month expected loss to be recognised for all The cost of employee services received in exchange for an financial instruments when they first originate or are acquired.
award of shares or share options granted is measured by In subsequent periods, if there is a significant increase in reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the credit risk of a financial instrument since it was originated date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting or acquired, the full lifetime expected credit loss would then conditions and market performance conditions conditions be recognised.
related to the market price of the Companys shares.
The standard has introduced greater flexibility in the type of The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting transactions eligible for hedge accounting and broadened period the period during which all the specified vesting the type of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments.
conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase in The hedge effectiveness test has been replaced with the equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding liability principle of an economic relationship.
The cost is adjusted for vesting The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or conditions other than market performance conditions so as to after 1 January 2018, although early adoption is permitted.
reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with The cancellation of an award through failure to meet nonCustomers was issued by the IASB, to establish a single vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense for any comprehensive model to use in accounting for revenue unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
recognition and measurement, from contracts note: insurance 1.21 Capital instruments contracts are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15 with The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a customers.
The standard provides guidance on when and financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with how combined contracts should be unbundled and when a the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is transaction price includes a variable consideration element.
classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver The standard will require the Group to consider contracts with cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets customers to determine if changes are required to existing or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as accounting practices, but is not expected to have a material equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the impact on the Groups financial statements.
Group after the deduction of liabilities.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company after 1 January 2017, although early adoption is permitted.
purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts is deducted from equity.
114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out on pages 108 to 114.
UK company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, IAS 8 requires management to develop and apply an accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable information in the light of the requirements and guidance in IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims handling.
Outstanding claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries at 31 December 2014 amounted to 3,898.6 million with an additional 393.5 million included in liabilities held for sale 2013: 4,840.1 million.
Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and attritional claims, typically using standard actuarial methods of projection.
Key judgements in this assessment include the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for claims frequency and severity through the review of historical claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance recoveries are also calculated on an equivalent basis as discussed in note 1.6.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a discount rate of 2.5%.
This is normally referred to as the Ogden discount rate.
Other estimates are also required for case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection fees, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
In August 2012, the MoJ announced a review of the approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within the existing legal framework.
Following further consultation, in 2014 the Justice Secretary announced that a panel of three financial investment experts will be appointed to provide testimony on potential changes to the discount rate on personal injury damages.
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2014 to 1.5% 2013: 1.5%.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in note 3.3.
The Group settles some large bodily injury claims as PPOs rather than lump sum payments.
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued The provisions for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already settled as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions or those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
Anticipated PPOs consist of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development as well as claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings SOC 6115 inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2013: 4.0%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2013: 4.0%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2013: 0.0%.
Since lump sum payments are calculated using a real discount rate of 2.5% 2013: 2.5% the PPOs reserved cost is greater than that of lump sum settlements.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
2.2 Impairment provisions financial assets AFS The Group determines that AFS financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or whether there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in AFS debt securities are impaired based on the following criteria: price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole: adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: or offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value.
Impairment provision on AFS financial assets in the year ended 31 December 2014 amounted to a 1.3 million release 2013: nil.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2014, the Group would suffer a further 15.8 million loss of which 0.3 million relates to the disposal group 2013: 40.4 million loss, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 2.3 Fair value Financial assets classified as AFS debt securities and derivative financial instruments are recognised in the financial statements at fair value determined using observable market input.
The fair value of AFS debt securities at 31 December 2014 amounted to 5,830.3 million with an additional 706.9 million included in assets held for sale 2013: 7,005.5 million.
The fair value of derivative financial assets and liabilities amounted to 27.3 million 2013: 40.7 million and 29.4 million 2013: 19.3 million respectively.
Freehold and long leasehold properties that are classified as investment properties are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
The fair value at 31 December 2014 amounted to 307.2 million 2013: 223.4 million and was determined using a valuation model that includes inputs that are unobservable.
Estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities In estimating the fair value of financial assets and investment properties, the methods and assumptions used by the Group incorporate: Financial assets and liabilities For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, fair values are estimated using values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities.
Investment property Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent valuers who hold recognised and relevant professional qualifications.
The valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are compared with recent market transactions for similar properties, they are adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property.
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial assets and liabilities are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties are those derived from a valuation technique that includes inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods.
Management use estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business.
Judgement is used to determine the types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7.
The total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2014 amounted to 208.4 million with an additional 111.1 million included in assets held for sale 2013: 321.5 million.
During 2014, the Group reviewed these costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable.
2.5 Goodwill The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2014 was 211.0 million 2013: 211.0 million.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement: for example, those financial assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the postacquisition performance.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of a CGU or group of CGUs with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 17.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment The Group does not revalue property, plant and equipment.
However, it takes appropriate steps to consider whether the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment exceeds the balance sheet carrying value of such items.
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment is not less than its carrying value.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise-wide Risk Management framework The ERM framework within the Group is designed to ensure that risk management is a forward-looking discipline, focused on facilitating appropriate and fair outcomes on a consistent and reliable basis for all stakeholders.
The ERM process provides the Group with a consistent and holistic view of risk management.
Further information can be found in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 28.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its capital requirements for solvency purposes.
The assessment is submitted to the PRA as the ICA in respect of its UK regulated entities.
The ICA quantifies the insurance, market, counterparty, liquidity, operational and Group risk that the UK regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the ICA process and reviews and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments The Risk management section of the Strategic report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk and counterparty risk.
1 Insurance risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk as a primary consequence of its business.
Key insurance risks focus on the inherent uncertainty around the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities arising through risks accepted during insurance operations, as defined in the ERM framework.
The insurance risks that the Group faces include those referred to below: Reserving risk Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims.
The risk that technical reserves are incorrectly assessed such that inappropriate funds have been retained to handle and pay claims and associated expenses as the amounts fall due, or that a surplus of funds has been retained resulting in opportunity costs.
Reserving risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular periodic reviews of the claims, premium and a regular assessment of the requirement for a liability adequacy provision for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and assessing the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are particularly susceptible to potential retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, for example, a change in the Ogden discount rate.
This is the discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is under review by the MoJ.
The Group has calculated its estimated reserves based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 1.5%, in recognition of the uncertainty regarding the future rate.
118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Uncertainty in claims reserve estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made typically over the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and are sensitive to a change in the discount rate.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table and above could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points bps 87.3 81.7 87.3 80.5 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100bps 121.8 118.5 121.8 116.8 2 Ogden Impact of an increase in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps 159.6 169.7 159.6 169.7 Impact of a decrease in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps 224.0 238.2 224.0 238.2 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 4.0%.
An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities, which increases the total equity which would be reflected in the income statement.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the Ogden discount rate illustrate a movement in the value from the current level of 2.5%.
The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2014 to 1.5%.
The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December.
The sensitivities set out above excluded the impact of taxation.
Pricing and underwriting risks The risk of economic loss arising from business being inappropriately accepted i. e. outside underwriting rules terms and conditions and or incorrectly priced.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12 month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Claims management risk The risk that claims are reserved or paid inappropriately, including the timing of such activity.
Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system-driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner.
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures.
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function.
Specialist bodily injury claims teams in the UK are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Claims exceeding a certain threshold are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria.
A process is in place in the UK business to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the impact.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Reinsurance risk The risk of inappropriate selection and or placement of a reinsurance arrangement, with either individual or multiple reinsurers which renders the transfer of insurance risk to the reinsurer s inappropriate and or ineffective.
Other risks include: Reinsurance capacity being reduced and or withdrawn: Underwriting risk appetite and reinsurance contract terms not being aligned: Reinsurance contract terms being inappropriate or ineffective resulting in classes or types of business not being appropriately reinsured: Non-adherence to the reinsurance policy terms and conditions, in terms of both policy management and claims not being handled within the reinsurance contract terms and conditions or paid on an ex-gratia basis resulting in reinsurance recoveries not being made in full: Inappropriate or inaccurate management information and or modelling being used to determine the value for money and purchasing of reinsurance including aggregate modelling : and Changes in the external legal, regulatory, social or economic environment altering the definition and application of reinsurance policy wordings or effectiveness value for money of reinsurance.
The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk retention strategy.
Using reinsurance the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes back counterparty risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore extremely important and both the quality and quantum of the assumed counterparty risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least Aat the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures represent the accumulated counterparty risk for all Group underwriting entities and are reviewed on a monthly basis.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of PPOs, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
Catastrophe risk The risk of loss, or of adverse change, in the value of the insurance liabilities resulting from significant uncertainty of pricing and provisioning assumptions related to extreme or exceptional events.
Insurance concentration risk The Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a UK catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 1 in 200-year loss.
The retained deductible is 150 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 150 million.
There are also relevant covers to protect the Groups international businesses: product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers: and reinsurance concentration risk reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range.
It is important to note that none of these risk categories is independent of the others and that giving due considerations to the relationship between these risks is an important aspect of the effective management of insurance risk.
120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 3.3.
2 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Groups financial risk is concentrated within its investment portfolio and reinsurance.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is agreed by the Investment Committee.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as risk, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via the 1st and 2nd Line of Defence.
The investment management objectives are: to maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and to maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
2.1 Market risk Market risk is the risk associated with the adverse impact of the market risk factors movement on the Groups balance sheet due to changes in the fair value or cash flows of its assets or liabilities.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: interest rate risk: spread risk: foreign currency risk: and property risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved at the Investment Committee.
The Group has a property portfolio and has commenced investment in infrastructure debt in order to improve matching to the longer duration PPOs.
The Group uses its internal economic capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% value-at-risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for analysing the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The market risk policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes however, the Group is able to, and does, use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
The fixed interest rate up to 27 April 2022 on the Groups 30-year maturity 500 million of subordinated guaranteed dated notes has been exchanged for a floating rate of interest note 29.
The Group also invests in floating rate AFS debt securities, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on the investments.
The market value of the Groups financial investments with fixed coupons are affected by the movement of interest rates.
For the majority of investments in US Dollar corporate bonds excluding 300 million of short duration high yield bonds, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
These derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Spread risk Spread risk represents the risk of adverse fluctuation of the value of assets due to changes in the level of spreads.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in investment grade bonds and securitised credit.
Foreign currency risk The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, US Dollar securitised credit and its investment in subsidiaries.
The Group maintains exposure to US Dollar securities through its investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised credits.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged direct currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk through its investments in subsidiaries in Italy and Germany that is, investments in equity.
In September 2013, the Group changed its currency hedging strategy on these investments to accept the long-term foreign exchange fluctuation impact on its investment in subsidiaries.
In September 2014, the Group entered into a forward foreign exchange contract to sell the Euro proceeds in exchange for Pounds Sterling, from the potential sale of the Italian and German entities.
This mitigates foreign currency exposure in respect of the expected proceeds up to the sale settlement date.
Property risk Property risk results from adverse price fluctuations on commercial property investments.
At 31 December 2014, the value of these property investments was 307.2 million 2013: 223.4 million.
The property investments are located in the UK.
Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at 31 December in income statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Spread Impact of a 100bps increase in spreads on financial investments 1,2, 4 and derivatives 163.5 187.8 Interest rate Impact of a 100bps increase in interest rates on financial investments 1,3, 4 and derivatives 19.1 18.0 122.8 170.5 Investment property Impact of a 15% decrease in property markets 46.1 33.5 46.1 33.5 Notes: 1.
The income statement impact on financial investments is limited to floating rate instruments and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate instruments, in particular AFS debt securities, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The increase decrease in total equity reflects a fair value movement in infrastructure debt that would not be recorded in the financial statements under IFRS as they are classified as loans and receivables which are carried at amortised cost.
This result has been included in the table above to provide a comprehensive analysis of the fair value impact of this sensitivity.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on financial investments and derivatives, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to these assets liabilities on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated liabilities and associated interest rate swap are excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation.
The sensitivities calculated above exclude the impact of assets held in the disposal group.
122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2014 m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 54.4 0.3 0.3 Interest rate swaps 696.6 0.9 1.2 22.5 24.6 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 435.6 1.9 0.5 2.4 Total 1,186.6 3.1 1.7 22.5 27.3 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,892.3 22.9 22.9 Interest rate swaps 424.9 1.3 0.5 4.6 6.4 1 Interest rate futures 540.5 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 5.0 0.1 0.1 Total 2,862.7 24.3 0.5 4.6 29.4 Note: 1.
Interest rate futures are settled daily with variation margin and therefore have a fair value of nil.
The notional value is included in the above table to reflect the fact that the Group has exposure to open positions.
Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m At 31 December 2013 Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,315.8 23.8 23.8 Interest rate swaps 370.1 1.0 1.7 8.9 9.6 Interest rate futures 561.3 7.3 7.3 Total 2,247.2 30.1 1.7 8.9 40.7 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2013 m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Interest rate swaps 739.9 1.1 0.4 18.5 17.8 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 9.6 0.8 0.7 1.5 Total 749.5 0.3 1.1 18.5 19.3 The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2014 the Group has pledged 17.3 million in cash 2013: 4.9 million in cash and 20.0 million UK Gilts to cover out of the money derivative positions.
At 31 December 2014 counterparties have pledged 21.5 million in UK Gilts 2013: 18.0 million in cash to the Group to cover in the money derivative positions.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such no policy has been established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
2.2 Counterparty risk Counterparty risk arises from the potential that losses are incurred from the failure of counterparties to meet their credit obligations, due to either their failure and or their inability to pay or their unwillingness to pay amounts due.
Counterparty risk is primarily managed by the 1st line of defence and monitored by the Credit Risk Forum.
The main responsibility of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of counterparty risk for the Group are: investment counterparty this arises from the investment of monies in the range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: and reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment.
This has increased reinsurance counterparty risk in terms of both amount and longevity.
The following tables analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty risk between those assets that have not been impaired by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Reinsurance assets 862.5 862.5 Insurance and other receivables 907.3 52.0 0.6 959.9 Derivative assets 27.3 27.3 AFS debt securities 5,830.3 5,830.3 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 54.7 54.7 Infrastructure debt 76.2 76.2 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 729.1 Cash at bank and in hand 151.3 151.3 1 Total 8,638.7 52.0 0.6 8,691.3 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value in past due nor Past due more than have been the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2013 m m m m m Reinsurance assets 1,011.0 1,011.0 Insurance and other receivables 1,075.8 42.8 3.4 1,122.0 Derivative assets 40.7 40.7 AFS debt securities 7,001.2 4.3 7,005.5 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 435.7 435.7 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 600.8 600.8 Cash at bank and in hand 307.5 307.5 Total 10,472.7 42.8 3.4 4.3 10,523.2 Note: 1.
The carrying value of the financial and insurance assets for 2014 excludes the assets held for sale.
Within the analysis of AFS debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2014 of 1,328.3 million 2013: 1,625.2 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 104.1 million 2013: 135.9 million : unsecured 1,058.3 million 2013: 1,297.4 million : and subordinated 165.9 million 2013: 191.9 million.
124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The following tables analyse the credit quality of AFS debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
Securitised credit is all in the form of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed securities.
The credit quality of AFS debt securities in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.
The following tables analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired excluding AFS debt securities analysed above.
The tables include reinsurance exposure, after provision.
1 details the Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty risk management.
AAA AA to AA A to A BBB to BBBBB and below Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2014 Reinsurance assets 654.1 196.3 4.3 7.8 862.5 1 Insurance and other receivables 17.3 17.4 15.5 0.4 856.7 907.3 Derivative assets 2.5 0.8 24.0 27.3 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 54.7 54.7 Infrastructure debt 76.2 76.2 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 729.1 Cash at bank and in hand 81.4 69.9 151.3 2 Total 729.1 728.6 295.9 189.9 0.4 864.5 2,808.4 AAA AA to AA A to A BBB to BBBBB and below Not rated Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2013 Reinsurance assets 0.3 710.9 289.0 0.7 10.1 1,011.0 1 Insurance and other receivables 9.2 25.7 2.4 1,038.5 1,075.8 Derivative assets 5.7 35.0 40.7 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities three months 55.0 380.7 435.7 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 545.8 5.0 50.0 600.8 Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 255.4 51.7 0.2 307.5 Total 546.1 786.0 1,035.8 54.8 1,048.8 3,471.5 Notes: 1.
Other loans and receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries generally do not have a credit rating.
The credit quality of financial and insurance assets in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the potential that obligations cannot be met as they fall due as a consequence of having a timing mismatch and or an inability to raise sufficient liquid assets or cash without suffering a substantial loss on realisation.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk minimum standard.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the minimum standard and the regulatory requirements of local regulators.
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event.
In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response.
The following tables analyse financial investments, cash and cash equivalents, insurance and financial liabilities by remaining duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category.
Insurance liabilities exclude unearned premium reserves as there are no liquidity risks inherent in them.
The assets and liabilities remaining duration tables for 2014 excludes assets and liabilities held for sale.
126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Concentration risk Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area.
The distribution of AFS debt securities and infrastructure debt by geographical area excludes assets held for sale.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities by geographical area.
The distribution of AFS debt securities by industry sector in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.
The table below analyses the distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector classifications 2013: nil.
The distribution of infrastructure debt by industry sector in 2014 excludes assets held for sale.
3.4 Capital adequacy The Group defines its capital requirement in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the PRA, other regulatory bodies and the credit rating agencies.
Capital is managed in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency.
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including its risk-based capital requirement, the maintenance of a prudent excess capital over its regulatory capital requirements and its rating agency capital.
The Group seeks to hold capital coverage in the range of 125% to 150% of its risk-based capital requirement and to hold capital resources consistent with an A range credit rating.
The UK regulated insurance entities of the Group carry out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources in accordance with the PRAs ICA methodology.
The UK insurance capital requirement is calculated on an internal model which is calibrated to a 99.5% confidence interval and considers business written to date and one year of future business.
Additionally, the model allows for the uncertainty around the run-off of this business.
The risk-based capital model also supports decision making in the business.
The Group also monitors its financial resources with reference to the requirements of the IGD.
The capital for European entities is maintained in accordance with the local regulatory solvency requirements.
The Group manages its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis to ensure that capital resources exceed regulatory minima in accordance with its risk appetite.
The Group has an IGD surplus at 31 December 2014 of approximately 1.9 billion 2013: 1.8 billion.
From 1 January 2016, the Groups regulatory capital position will be assessed against the Solvency II framework.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the following operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal car insurance cover together with the associated legal expenses business.
The Group sells motor insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnership brands directly to customers or through PCWs.
As a result, the Group has a brand and product offering that covers most major retail customer segments for motor insurance in the UK.
Home This segment consists of the underwriting of home insurance together with associated legal expenses cover.
The Group sells home insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships or PCWs.
The Groups brand and product offering covers most of the major retail customer segments for home insurance in the UK.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of the underwriting of rescue and recovery insurance products and other personal lines business, including travel, pet, life conducted by Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited which was sold on 28 November 2013 and creditor.
The Group sells rescue and recovery insurance as a stand-alone product through the Green Flag brand or as an insurance add-on to all Group own brand and certain partner motor policies, or as part of packaged bank accounts sold through our bank partnership channel.
Rescue insurance policies range from basic roadside rescue to a full Europe-wide breakdown recovery service.
The Group sells its other personal lines insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships.
Commercial This segment consists of the underwriting of commercial insurance for micro businesses and SMEs in the UK.
The Group sells commercial products through its own brands NIG, Direct Line for Business and Churchill and through its partnership with RBS and NatWest.
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such income and charges are categorised as either run-off, described below, or restructuring and other one-off costs.
Run-off The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco business.
These residual businesses are now in run-off.
Discontinued operations International This segment consists primarily of personal motor car insurance cover sold in Italy and Germany using a multi-channel strategy through the Direct Line brand and through partnerships and PCWs.
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of this segment and accordingly its results have been treated as a discontinued operation.
The segmental analysis of revenues and results on pages 131 to 132 has been re-presented to reflect this treatment with the revenue and results of the discontinued operations separately disclosed in note 5.
The assets and liabilities of the International segment have been presented as a disposal group and have been classified as held for sale.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The table below is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment in the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 31 December 2014 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014, were recorded in the Motor segment other operating income: 1.4 million and operating loss: 0.4 million.
Restructuring costs are costs which have been incurred in respect of the business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of the Groups operations.
One off costs are costs that are non-recurring in nature.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued The table below is an analysis of the Groups revenue and results for continuing operations by reportable segment in the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 2013 relating to the Tracker business, which was disposed of on 5 February 2014, were recorded in the Motor segment other operating income: 18.4 million and operating loss: 1.4 million.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 2013 relating to the Life business, which was disposed of on 28 November 2013, were recorded in two segments: Rescue and other personal lines net earned premium: 11.8 million, net insurance claims: 1.8 million and operating profit: 6.4 million and Run-off net earned premium: 2.8 million, net insurance claims: 0.7 million and operating profit: 1.2 million.
The segmental results set out above have been re-presented from those presented in the 2013 Annual Report as a consequence of the transfer of the International segment to discontinued operations note 5.
The tables below analyse the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment.
Comprise the assets and liabilities of International.
The allocation of other segment assets and segment liabilities has been revised from the values disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2013.
All continuing operations are in the UK.
The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
Discontinued operations and disposal group Following a strategic review of the International segment, the Board concluded that, although the operations in Italy represented by Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Germany represented by Direct Line Versicherung AG occupied strong positions, a disposal would be likely to generate the most value to shareholders.
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement with Mapfre International S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mapfre, S. A. for the sale of International.
Accordingly the Group has treated this segment as discontinued operations and a disposal group.
A Discontinued operations The following table analyses performance relating to the discontinued operations.
2014 2013 m m Gross written premium 567.6 604.5 Gross earned premium 555.8 579.3 Reinsurance premium ceded 226.0 212.8 Net earned premium 329.8 366.5 Investment return 22.1 23.4 Instalment income 4.8 6.8 Other operating income 1.0 0.8 Total income 357.7 397.5 Insurance claims 404.2 453.0 Insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 159.5 169.6 Net insurance claims 244.7 283.4 Commission expenses 63.0 57.9 Operating expenses 29.0 39.6 Total expenses 92.0 97.5 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 21.0 16.6 Tax charge 7.7 14.6 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 13.3 2.0 Underwriting loss 6.9 14.4 Loss ratio 74.2% 77.3% Commission ratio 19.1% 15.8% Expense ratio 8.8% 10.8% Combined operating ratio 102.1% 103.9% www.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Discontinued operations and disposal group continued The following table analyses the other comprehensive loss relating to discontinued operations, included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2014 2013 m m Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on the translation of foreign operations 15.5 4.2 Fair value gain loss on available-for-sale investments 26.1 3.8 Less: realised net gains on available-for-sale investments included in income statement 6.6 5.0 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 6.9 2.4 Other comprehensive loss for the year net of tax 2.9 2.2 The following table analyses the cash flows relating to the discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement.
2014 2013 m m Net cash generated from operating activities 12.6 23.7 Net cash used by investing activities 8.4 3.9 Net cash generated from financing activities 8.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.1 0.3 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 1.9 27.9 B Disposal group The following table analyses the assets and liabilities of the disposal group at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
For comparison purposes the relevant assets and liabilities of the entities comprising the disposal group have been included in the table.
For comparison purposes only 2014 2013 m m Assets Intangible assets 5.6 4.6 Property, plant and equipment 5.9 4.7 Reinsurance assets 183.0 202.9 Deferred tax assets 9.2 16.9 Current tax assets 1.4 1.3 Deferred acquisition costs 111.1 98.2 Insurance and other receivables 91.1 92.4 Prepayments and accrued income 3.6 1.3 Financial investments 706.9 779.0 Cash and cash equivalents 87.6 89.5 Total assets 1,205.4 1,290.8 Liabilities Insurance liabilities 553.4 609.4 Unearned premium reserve 326.2 339.3 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 82.0 109.7 Deferred tax liabilities 0.8 2.3 Current tax liabilities 2.0 Total liabilities 964.4 1,060.7 In addition to the above assets and liabilities of the disposal group held for sale, the Group has a property asset held for sale at 31 December 2014 of 3.0 million 2013: 1.0 million.
134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 6.
Net earned premium 2014 2013 m m Continuing operations Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,099.0 3,230.0 Movement in unearned premium reserve 45.2 87.0 3,144.2 3,317.0 Reinsurance premium ceded: Premium payable 182.5 159.5 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 25.0 0.7 157.5 160.2 Total 2,986.7 3,156.8 7.
Investment return 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Investment income: Interest income from AFS debt securities 154.0 151.9 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 5.2 6.9 Rental income from investment property 16.2 11.4 Interest income from infrastructure debt 0.1 175.5 170.2 Net realised losses gains: AFS debt securities 16.2 20.7 Derivatives 86.2 21.5 Investment property note 19 2.3 67.7 42.2 Net unrealised gains losses : 1 Impairments of AFS debt securities 1.3 Derivatives 79.6 22.2 Investment property note 19 26.4 7.5 107.3 14.7 Total 215.1 197.7 Note: 1.
The impairment reversal relates to an AFS debt security originally impaired in 2011.
The table below analyses the realised and unrealised gains losses on derivative instruments included in investment return.
Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Continuing operations Derivative losses gains Foreign exchange forward contracts 59.3 46.4 21.2 12.0 Associated foreign exchange risk 7.4 115.9 2.0 33.3 Net losses gains on foreign exchange forward contracts 66.7 69.5 23.2 21.3 Interest rate derivatives 20.4 22.1 0.8 19.6 Associated interest rate risk 0.9 32.2 0.9 20.5 Net losses gains on interest rate derivatives 19.5 10.1 1.7 0.9 Total 86.2 79.6 21.5 22.2 www.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Other operating income 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Vehicle replacement referral income 15.8 15.7 1 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 18.0 31.8 Fee income from insurance intermediary services 2.1 1.7 Other income 11.0 12.4 Total 46.9 61.6 Note: 1.
This includes 1.4 million 2013: 18.4 million in relation to the Tracker business disposed of on 5 February 2014.
Net insurance claims 2014 2013 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m Continuing operations Current accident year claims paid 1,086.4 1,086.4 1,079.0 17.4 1,061.6 Prior accident year claims paid 1,165.8 21.8 1,144.0 1,383.3 22.6 1,360.7 Movement in insurance liabilities 473.6 29.4 503.0 580.5 29.1 551.4 Total 1,778.6 51.2 1,727.4 1,881.8 10.9 1,870.9 Claims handling expenses for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 226.3 million 2013: 239.5 million have been included in the claims figures above.
Commission expenses 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Commission expenses 263.3 275.4 Expenses incurred under profit participations 90.7 59.1 Total 354.0 334.5 11.
Operating expenses 2014 2013 m m Continuing operations Staff costs 263.6 356.4 Marketing 123.9 159.2 Depreciation 22.6 18.5 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 66.4 33.7 Other operating expenses 299.5 320.9 Total 776.0 888.7 Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
The table below analyses restructuring and other one-off costs included in operating expenses.
Staff costs in 2013 include redundancy costs of 40.9 million.
136 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The table below analyses the average monthly number of persons employed by the Groups operations.
Continuing operations 2014 2013 Operations 9,959 10,892 Support 1,278 1,773 Total 11,237 12,665 The Groups discontinued operations employed an average monthly number of 1,275 people in 2014 2013: 1,295.
The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups operations comprised: 2014 2013 m m Continuing operations Wages and salaries 348.7 395.0 Social security costs 37.7 43.7 Pension costs 19.2 24.3 Share-based payments 6.6 4.1 Total 412.2 467.1 The aggregate remuneration of those employed by the Groups discontinued operations was 32.9 million in 2014 2013: 33.9 million.
The table below analyses Auditors remuneration in respect of the Groups operations.
2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts 0.4 0.4 The Companys subsidiaries 1.5 1.4 Total audit fees 1.9 1.8 Fees payable for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Taxation advisory services 0.2 Other services 0.1 Total non-audit services 0.4 0.1 Total 2.3 1.9 The audit fees in respect of the Groups discontinued operations were 0.4 million in 2014 2013: 0.3 million.
Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration, all of which is in relation to continuing operations, in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2014 2013 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.4 3.2 Gains on exercise of share options 1.2 0.5 Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 0.1 Total 4.7 3.8 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
At 31 December 2014, one Director 2013: one had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, two Directors exercised share options 2013: two Directors exercised share options in relation to RBS Group LTIP awards and incentive deferral plans.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Finance costs 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m 1 Interest expense on subordinated liabilities 37.2 37.7 Note: 1.
As described in note 29, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated guaranteed dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 bps which increased to 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013.
Tax charge 2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 87.2 91.9 Under provision in respect of prior year 3.9 2.8 91.1 94.7 Deferred taxation note 14 : Charge for the year 14.0 4.7 Over provision in respect of prior year 7.6 2.9 6.4 1.8 Current taxation 91.1 94.7 Deferred taxation note 14 6.4 1.8 Tax charge for the year 97.5 96.5 The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 21.5% 2013: 23.25%.
2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 456.8 407.3 Expected tax charge 98.2 94.7 Effects of: Realised gains on disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 2.8 Disallowable expenses 3.4 4.4 Non-taxable items 0.6 Effect of change in UK taxation rate 0.1 0.3 Over provision in respect of prior year 3.7 0.1 Tax charge for the year 97.5 96.5 Effective income tax rate 21.3% 23.7% Note: 1.
The UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 in the Finance Act 2013 and enacted further reductions to 20% effective from 1 April 2015.
As a consequence the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 14.
Current and deferred tax Current tax 2014 2013 m m. Per balance sheet: 1 Current tax assets 0.1 1.3 1 Current tax liabilities 35.7 21.1 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B are current tax assets of 1.4 million and current tax liabilities of 2.0 million which were transferred from current tax assets and current tax liabilities at 31 December 2014.
Deferred tax 2014 2013 m m Per balance sheet: 1 Deferred tax assets 19.3 1 Deferred tax liabilities 20.6 19.3 20.6 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B are deferred tax assets of 9.2 million and deferred tax liabilities of 0.8 million which were transferred from deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2014.
The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions and Depreciation other Retirement in excess of Nontemporary benefit capital distributable Investment Share-based differences obligations allowances reserve properties payments Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 18.0 0.6 0.4 15.4 0.8 1.6 Credit charge to the income statement on continuing operations 0.5 0.5 0.7 3.5 1.5 2.5 1.8 Charge to the income statement on discontinued operations 5.0 5.0 Credit to other comprehensive income 2.4 1.5 3.9 Credit direct to equity 0.2 0.2 Other movements 1.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 At 31 December 2013 17.3 0.4 0.4 18.5 1.5 1.9 Credit charge to the income statement on continuing operations 2.6 0.5 0.5 6.5 3.3 0.8 6.4 Credit to the income statement on discontinued operations 2.1 2.1 Charge to other comprehensive income 7.4 0.6 8.0 Credit direct to equity 1.0 1.0 Other movements 0.8 0.1 0.9 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale note 5B 8.4 8.4 At 31 December 2014 5.4 0.7 0.8 25.0 4.8 3.7 20.6 www.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Dividends 2014 2013 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: 2013 final dividend of 8.4p per share paid on 15 May 2014 125.7 2012 final dividend of 8.0p per share paid on 11 June 2013 120.0 2014 first interim dividend of 4.4p per share paid on 12 September 2014 65.8 2013 interim dividend of 4.2p per share paid on 26 September 2013 62.8 2014 first special interim dividend of 10.0p per share paid on 12 September 2014 149.7 2013 first special interim dividend of 4.0p per share paid on 31 December 2013 59.9 2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share paid on15 May 2014 59.9 401.1 242.7 Proposed dividends: 1 2014 final dividend of 8.8p per share 132.0 2013 final dividend of 8.4p per share 126.0 2014 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share 60.0 2013 second special interim dividend of 4.0p per share 60.0 Note: 1.
The Board has resolved this year to pay an interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend.
The second special dividend is referred to separately from the final dividend.
This enables more appropriate comparison to the 2013 final dividend.
The proposed final and second special interim dividends for 2014 have not been included as liabilities in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts waived their entitlement to dividends on shares, which are not held for the benefit of employees except for free share awards, which reduced the total dividend paid by 0.9 million 2013: 0.3 million.
Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares during the period.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2014 2013 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 359.3 310.8 Discontinued operations 13.3 2.0 Continuing and discontinued operations 372.6 312.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share millions 1,495.0 1,495.4 Basic earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 24.0 20.8 Discontinued operations 0.9 0.1 Continuing and discontinued operations 24.9 20.9 140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2014 2013 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company arising from: Continuing operations 359.3 310.8 Discontinued operations 13.3 2.0 Continuing and discontinued operations 372.6 312.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share millions 1,495.0 1,495.4 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 12.9 5.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share millions 1,507.9 1,501.2 Diluted earnings per share pence : Continuing operations 23.8 20.7 Discontinued operations 0.9 0.1 Continuing and discontinued operations 24.7 20.8 Net asset value and tangible net asset value per share Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares at the end of the period excluding shares held by employee share trusts.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2014 2013 At 31 December m m Net assets 2,810.5 2,790.0 Goodwill and other intangible assets 517.5 500.1 Disposal group intangible assets note 5B 5.6 Tangible net assets 2,287.4 2,289.9 Number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,500.0 1,500.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 6.4 5.2 Closing number of Ordinary Shares millions 1,493.6 1,494.8 Net asset value per share pence 188.2 186.6 Tangible net asset value per share pence 153.1 153.2 Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2014 2013 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 372.6 312.8 Opening shareholders equity 2,790.0 2,831.6 Closing shareholders equity 2,810.5 2,790.0 Average shareholders equity 2,800.2 2,810.8 Return on equity 13.3% 11.1% www.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 344.6 329.4 674.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.8 0.8 Additions 115.5 115.5 Disposal of subsidiary 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2013 342.8 445.7 788.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 2.6 2.6 Additions 92.8 92.8 1 Disposal of subsidiary 110.1 1.6 111.7 2 Disposals and write-off 67.2 67.2 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5B 21.7 38.6 60.3 At 31 December 2014 211.0 428.5 639.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2013 133.6 118.9 252.5 Charge for the year relating to continuing operations 33.7 33.7 Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 3.5 3.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.5 0.5 Disposal of subsidiary 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2013 131.8 156.6 288.4 Charge for the year relating to continuing operations 56.9 56.9 Charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 2.2 2.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 2.2 2.2 1 Disposal of subsidiary 110.1 0.9 111.0 2 Disposals and write-off 67.2 67.2 Impairment losses 9.6 9.6 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5B 21.7 33.0 54.7 At 31 December 2014 122.0 122.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 211.0 306.5 517.5 At 31 December 2013 211.0 289.1 500.1 Notes: 1.
Disposal of subsidiary relates to the Tracker business.
Disposals and write-off include fully amortised intangible assets no longer utilised by the Group in its operating activities.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
The Groups goodwill is reviewed annually at 30 September for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indications of impairment.
142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2014 2013 m m Motor 126.4 126.4 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 211.0 211.0 There have been no impairments in goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs at 30 September were based on the value-in-use test, using the Groups five-year strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Sensitivity: Impact on Assumptions recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit CGU % % m m m m Motor 3.0 11.8% 914.2 189.0 262.2 25.8 Home 3.0 11.8% 644.4 67.8 93.2 8.8 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.8% 622.1 55.7 76.3 7.0 Commercial 3.0 11.8% 133.4 37.4 51.7 4.9 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease in the profit for each year of the five-year forecast.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 4.4 138.0 142.4 Additions 10.9 28.2 39.1 Disposals 6.3 6.3 Disposal of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2013 15.3 160.0 175.3 Additions 43.4 43.3 86.7 Disposals 16.6 16.6 Acquisition of subsidiary 25.1 25.1 Disposal of subsidiary 3.5 3.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.7 1.7 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5B 27.2 27.2 At 31 December 2014 83.8 154.3 238.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2013 0.9 49.1 50.0 Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.2 18.3 18.5 Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 2.5 2.5 Disposals 3.4 3.4 Impairment losses 5.5 5.5 Disposal of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 1.1 71.9 73.0 Depreciation charge for the year relating to continuing operations 0.6 22.0 22.6 Depreciation charge for the year relating to discontinued operations 3.0 3.0 Disposals 16.3 16.3 Impairment losses 0.1 0.1 Disposal of subsidiary 2.9 2.9 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.4 1.4 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5B 21.3 21.3 At 31 December 2014 1.7 55.1 56.8 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 82.1 99.2 181.3 At 31 December 2013 14.2 88.1 102.3 19.
Investment property 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 223.4 128.9 Additions 76.2 87.0 Increase in fair value during the year 28.7 7.5 Disposals 21.1 At 31 December 307.2 223.4 Note: 1.
The cost included in carrying value at 31 December 2014 is 279.5 million 2013: 220.7 million.
144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements The investment properties are measured at fair value which was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at the balance sheet date by independent valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2013.
Lease agreements with tenants are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are shown below.
Their capital consists of ordinary shares which are unlisted.
Direct Line Versicherung AG, DL Insurance Services Limited and U K Insurance Limited are owned directly by Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
Direct Line Insurance S. p. A is owned indirectly through intermediary holding companies.
All subsidiaries are included in the Groups consolidated financial information.
Type of Place of incorporation ownership interest Proportion of Name of subsidiary and operation share type voting power held Principal activity Direct Line Insurance S. p. A Italy Ordinary 100% General insurance Direct Line Versicherung AG Germany Ordinary 100% General insurance DL Insurance Services Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% Management services U K Insurance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% General insurance The above information is provided in relation to principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Full information on all related undertakings is included in the Annual Return available from Companies House by visiting www.
On 25 September 2014, the Group entered into a binding agreement for the sale, subject to regulatory approval, of its International business comprising Direct Line Insurance S. p. A and Direct Line Versicherung AG for a cash consideration of 550.0 million 430.1 million.
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Tracker Network UK Limited on 5 February 2014.
The fair value of the identifiable assets sold was 9.2 million including cash and cash equivalents of 2.4 million and the fair value of the identifiable liabilities was 8.8 million.
The total cash consideration received was 2.7 million, generating a profit on disposal of 2.3 million.
Tracker generated other income of 1.4 million up to the point of sale full year 2013: 18.4 million and an operating loss of 0.4 million 2013: 1.4 million.
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited on 28 November 2013.
The fair value of the identifiable assets sold was 159.4 million including cash and cash equivalents of 20.5 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was 132.1 million.
The total cash consideration received was 39.3 million, generating a profit on disposal of 12.0 million.
The Life business, in 2013, generated a gross earned premium of 35.9 million, net earned premium of 14.6 million and operating profit of 7.6 million up to the point of sale.
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the two years ended 31 December 2014.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of 10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited on 22 December 2014 for 26.1 million.
The fair value of the identification assets acquired was 26.2 million including cash and cash equivalents of 1.1 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was 0.1 million.
The total cash consideration paid was 26.1 million.
10-15 Livery Street, Birmingham UK Limited owns a property occupied by the Group and has no other trading activities.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Reinsurance assets 2014 2013 m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities including unearned premium reserve 928.9 1,064.2 Impairment provision 66.4 53.2 1 Total 862.5 1,011.0 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B is 183.0 million which has been transferred from reinsurance assets at 31 December 2014.
Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 53.2 60.7 Additional provision 14.1 3.5 Utilisation of provision 2.0 Release to income statement 0.9 9.0 At 31 December 66.4 53.2 22.
Deferred acquisition costs 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 321.5 327.6 Net increase decrease in the year 5.4 7.3 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 7.4 1.2 Transfer to assets held for sale note 5B 111.1 At 31 December 208.4 321.5 23.
Insurance and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts: Due from policyholders 790.7 927.9 Impairment of policyholder receivables 0.6 7.6 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 53.7 53.4 Impairment of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 0.7 0.5 Due from reinsurers 31.4 19.3 Other loans and receivables: Accrued interest 1.2 Receivables from related parties 0.9 1 Other debtors 85.4 127.4 2 Total 959.9 1,122.0 Notes: 1.
2013 included 42.1 million in respect of a deposit for the purchase of owner-occupied property.
Included in the disposal group note 5B is 91.1 million which has been transferred from insurance and other receivables at 31 December 2014.
146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 24.
Derivative financial instruments 2014 2013 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement 24.9 40.7 Designated as hedging instruments 2.4 Total 27.3 40.7 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement 29.3 17.8 Designated as hedging instruments 0.1 1.5 Total 29.4 19.3 The Group entered into a foreign currency hedge contract in September 2014, converting Euro to Pounds Sterling in respect of the expected proceeds in relation to the binding agreement for the sale of the International business.
Other designated hedging instruments have been entered into relating to supplier payments.
Financial investments 2014 2013 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 4,117.1 4,878.1 Supranational 176.3 365.7 Local government 120.7 134.5 Sovereign 993.8 1,399.5 Securitised credit 422.4 227.7 Total 5,830.3 7,005.5 AFS debt securities Fixed interest rate 5,147.3 6,468.4 Floating interest rate 683.0 537.1 Total 5,830.3 7,005.5 Loans and receivables Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 54.7 435.7 Infrastructure debt 76.2 1 Total 5,961.2 7,441.2 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B is 706.9 million which has been transferred from financial investments at 31 December 2014.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 151.3 307.5 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 729.1 600.8 Total 880.4 908.3 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 0.61% 2013: 0.41% and average maturity was 10 days 2013: 14 days.
The table below details cash and bank overdrafts for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 880.4 908.3 1 Bank overdrafts 69.8 55.1 Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale note 5B 87.6 Total 898.2 853.2 Note: 1.
Bank overdrafts represent short-term timing differences between transactions posted in the records of the Group and transactions flowing through the accounts at the bank.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share capital 2014 2013 m m Issued and fully paid: equity shares 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 150.0 150.0 Employee trust shares The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
At 31 December 2014, 6,391,506 Ordinary Shares 2013: 5,204,771 were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 13.6 million 2013: 10.2 million with an undertaking to satisfy the awards of shares in the Company under the Groups share plans.
These shares were purchased by the employee share trusts and are carried at cost.
At 31 December 2014, they had an aggregate nominal value of 0.6 million 2013: 0.5 million and a market value of 18.6 million 2013: 13.0 million.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 58.8 158.8 Revaluation during the year gross 97.2 108.2 Revaluation during the year tax 23.2 27.7 Realised gains gross 22.8 23.9 Realised gains tax 5.6 5.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary gross 1.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary tax 0.4 At 31 December 2014 115.6 58.8 Movements in the non-distributable reserve 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 92.8 63.2 Transfer from retained earnings 32.1 29.6 At 31 December 124.9 92.8 The non-distributable reserve relates to a UK statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
Subordinated liabilities 2014 2013 m m Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 526.3 486.6 The subordinated guaranteed dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 bps.
During 2013, a credit value adjustment was made to the interest rate hedge to reflect the market value of counterparty credit risk resulting from the majority divestment from RBS Group.
This has resulted in an increase in the floating rate to three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013.
The nominal 500 million notes have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
The Group has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest will be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other senior creditors have been met.
The Group has the option to defer interest payments in certain circumstances on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 30.
Included in the disposal group note 5B in 2014 liabilities held for sale is 46.7 million 28.5 million relating to 2004 and prior and 18.2 million relating to claims handling provision which has been transferred from insurance liabilities.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Included in the disposal group note 5B in 2014 liabilities held for sale is 46.7 million 28.5 million relating to 2004 and prior and 18.2 million relating to claims handling provision and assets held for sale of 14.1 million relating to 2004 and prior reinsurance which have been transferred from insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets respectively.
150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Claims reported 3,969.3 397.8 3,571.5 Incurred but not reported 2,153.9 511.6 1,642.3 Claims handling provision 163.8 163.8 Liability adequacy provision 4.3 4.3 At 1 January 2013 6,291.3 909.4 5,381.9 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 2,852.1 149.1 2,703.0 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 2,894.2 250.9 2,643.3 Arising from prior-year claims 583.9 96.7 487.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 12.2 2.8 9.4 Decrease in liability adequacy provision 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2013 5,757.4 917.3 4,840.1 Claims reported 3,636.4 467.5 3,168.9 Incurred but not reported 1,992.7 449.8 1,542.9 Claims handling provision 128.3 128.3 At 31 December 2013 5,757.4 917.3 4,840.1 Cash paid for claims settled in the year 2,671.6 181.2 2,490.4 Increase decrease in liabilities: Arising from current-year claims 2,721.3 288.3 2,433.0 Arising from prior-year claims 538.5 77.6 460.9 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 41.1 11.5 29.6 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale note 5B 553.4 159.8 393.6 At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 775.5 3,898.6 Claims reported 2,791.1 315.3 2,475.8 Incurred but not reported 1,778.2 460.2 1,318.0 Claims handling provision 104.8 104.8 At 31 December 2014 4,674.1 775.5 3,898.6 Movement in prior-year net claims liabilities by operating segment 2014 2013 m m Motor 278.4 291.9 Home 49.8 43.3 Rescue and other personal lines 15.7 9.0 Commercial 53.7 51.6 Total ongoing 397.6 395.8 Run-off 53.2 52.1 Discontinued International 10.1 39.3 Total 460.9 487.2 www.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2013 1,872.9 97.9 1,775.0 Net movement in the year 61.8 5.0 56.8 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 7.6 0.8 6.8 At 31 December 2013 1,818.7 93.7 1,725.0 Net movement in the year 33.4 18.6 52.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 24.9 2.1 22.8 Transfer to liabilities assets held for sale note 5B 326.2 23.2 303.0 At 31 December 2014 1,434.2 87.0 1,347.2 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Movements in life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2013 102.9 91.1 11.8 Provisions in respect of new and existing business 34.5 21.4 13.1 Expected change in existing business provisions 19.8 17.3 2.5 Variance between actual and expected experience 3.0 5.0 8.0 Other movements 3.7 3.7 1 Disposal 110.9 100.2 10.7 At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 Note: 1.
The Groups Life business was sold on 28 November 2013.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge for continuing operations in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 19.2 million 2013: 23.9 million.
The charge for discontinued operations was 1.8 million 2013: 1.4 million.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interests of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2014 is 20 years 2013: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit scheme obligations.
2014 2013 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.1 2.6 Discount rate 3.4 4.4 Inflation rate 3.1 3.5 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
152 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 2 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2014 2013 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 88.5 88.4 Females 90.2 90.1 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 90.4 90.3 Females 92.3 92.2 The table below analyses the fair value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
2014 2013 m m Equities 3.0 3.5 Index-linked bonds 22.2 13.1 Government bonds 12.8 5.7 Corporate bonds 44.4 42.9 Other 0.7 0.8 Total 83.1 66.0 The majority of debt and equity instruments have quoted prices on active markets.
Movement in net pension surplus deficit Present value of Fair value of defined benefit Net pension defined benefit scheme surplus scheme assets obligations deficit m m m At 1 January 2013 63.7 61.2 2.5 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.3 2.7 0.4 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial losses arising from experience adjustments 1.3 0.2 1.5 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.4 4.4 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2013 66.0 68.0 2.0 Income statement: 1 Net interest income cost 2.9 3.0 0.1 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 12.9 1.0 13.9 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 11.1 11.1 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2014 83.1 79.6 3.5 Note: 1.
The income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit scheme obligations 79.6 68.0 61.2 54.1 54.5 Fair value of defined benefit scheme assets 83.1 66.0 63.7 56.7 54.4 Net surplus deficit 3.5 2.0 2.5 2.6 0.1 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme liabilities 1.0 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.5 Experience adjustment gains losses on scheme assets 12.9 1.3 2.2 2.6 3.1 www.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
Impact on present value of defined benefit scheme obligations Impact on pension cost 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 0.2 4.1 3.5 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 0.1 4.1 3.6 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 2.1 1.8 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 2.1 1.8 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 1.8 1.5 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 0.1 1.8 1.6 The Group is currently undertaking a funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme at 1 October 2014, the results of which are due to be presented to the Group in 2015.
The Group agreed with the trustees after the funding valuation of 1 October 2011 to make contributions of 2.8 million per annum until 2016 to meet the schemes funding requirements.
Any changes arising from the valuation at 1 October 2014 will be discussed with the trustees.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of a Long-Term Incentive Plan, Restricted Shares Plan, Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans, including both the Free Share awards and Buy-As-You-Earn Plan, and the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan, details of which are set out below together with their financial impact: Long-Term Incentive Plan Senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP and awards are granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
Awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2014 over 2.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.3 million in March 2014 2013: 3.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.9 million and 2.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.7 million in August 2014 2013: 2.5 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.3 million.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using the Monte-Carlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2014 2013 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price 270p 208p Exercise price 0p 0p Volatility of Company share price 26% 26% Average comparator volatility 30% 32% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 1.1% 0.5% As only limited historic data is available for the Group, expected volatility was determined by calculating the median historic volatility for a group of comparable companies using daily share price data over a period commensurate with the expected life assumption.
These comparable companies are classified as being in the insurance sector in the FTSE 350.
154 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 4 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Restricted Shares Plan The purpose of the Restricted Shares Plan is to enable share-based awards to be made to employees of the Group who are newly recruited and to enable ad-hoc share awards to existing employees.
These awards can be granted at any time during the year, generally have no performance criteria attached and vest over periods ranging between one and three years from the date of the grant, subject to continued employment.
During the year awards were made over 0.5 million Ordinary Shares 2013: nil under this plan with an estimated fair value of 1.4 million 2013: nil estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
RBS Group LTIP awards Prior to IPO in October 2012, certain employees benefited from share-based awards originally granted by RBS Group.
RBS Group indemnified Direct Line Group for all future costs in respect of RBS Group share-based awards made to Direct Line Group employees.
All costs in respect of these share awards for Direct Line Group employees have since been borne by RBS Group.
In accordance with the above, the RBS Group Remuneration Committee has agreed that RBS Group would be responsible for the settlement of the outstanding LTIP awards in the year ended 31 December 2012, expected to vest in March 2015, with no charge to be made to Direct Line Group.
These 2012 LTIP awards will be settled with Company Ordinary Shares currently held by RBS Group.
Further details of the RBS Group legacy share-based payments are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans Free Share awards During the year ended 31 December 2012, upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered all employees a Free Share award granting shares to the value of 250 to each eligible employee free of charge.
These awards have no performance criteria attached, vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date subject to completion of three years continuing employment or on leaving employment in certain circumstances and will be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The number of shares initially granted was 1.9 million with an estimated fair value of 3.9 million.
In addition to the above, the Group announced its intention during December 2014 to offer a Free Share award with a value of 400 to all UK based employees.
This award will be made during March 2015 and will be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
Direct Line Group Share Incentive Plans Buy-As-You-Earn Plan The Buy-As-You-Earn Plan in the UK and an International plan for Italy, mirroring the UK plan, were both launched during the year ended 31 December 2013.
This plan entitles employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 125 per month, or Euro equivalent, and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
The limit of 125 per month was subsequently increased to 150 per month in January 2015 following changes in legislation during 2014.
In the year ended 31 December 2014, matching share awards were granted over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares 2013: 0.3 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value of 0.8 million 2013: 0.6 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the plan the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment with the Group or on leaving employment in certain circumstances and continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
Deferred Annual Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option under the Deferred Annual Incentive Plan.
In March 2014 awards were made over 1.1 million Ordinary Shares 2013: 1.1 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 2.6 million 2013: 2.2 million estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of award.
com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued The following table details the outstanding number of share awards in issue all nil-cost options.
Number of Number of share options share options million million 2014 2013 At 1 January 11.4 5.1 Granted during the year 6.1 6.9 Forfeited during the year 0.8 0.4 Exercised during the year 0.3 0.2 At 31 December 16.4 11.4 Exercisable at 31 December 0.3 0.2 In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 1.66 years 2013: 2.20 years.
No share options expired during the year 2013: nil.
The weighted average share price for awards exercised during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 2.56 2013: 2.17.
The Group recognised total expenses in the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.6 million 2013: 4.1 million relating to equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share-based payments in respect of Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 2014 2013 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 19.3 6.2 Due to reinsurers 57.0 81.0 Due to insurance companies 5.3 13.6 Due to related parties 58.7 Trade creditors and accruals 342.8 255.8 Other creditors 96.5 174.3 Other taxes 55.0 80.6 Provisions 79.4 134.9 Deferred income 5.3 13.2 1 Total 660.6 818.3 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B is 82.0 million which has been transferred from trade and other payables including insurance payables at 31 December 2014.
Movement in provisions during the year 1 Other Regulatory levies Restructuring Total m m m m At 1 January 2014 27.3 33.6 74.0 134.9 Additional provision 33.4 13.7 47.2 94.3 Utilisation of provision 34.2 31.4 43.7 109.3 Released to income statement 7.5 33.0 40.5 At 31 December 2014 26.5 8.4 44.5 79.4 Note: 1.
Other provisions include 1.9 million 2013: 22.5 million for costs associated with onerous contracts in respect of leasehold properties.
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 35.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2014 2013 m m Profit for the year 372.6 312.8 Adjustments for: Investment income 191.0 188.6 Instalment income 105.2 117.8 Other operating losses 6.6 0.7 Investment property revaluations 26.4 7.5 Finance costs 37.2 37.7 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 6.6 4.1 Tax charge 105.2 111.1 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 84.8 58.2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 9.6 5.5 Reversal of impairment losses on financial investments 1.3 Impairment movements on reinsurance contracts 13.2 7.5 Impairment losses on assets held for sale 9.6 Profit on sale of AFS financial investments 22.8 25.7 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 2.9 Profit on sale of investment property 2.3 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 2.3 12.0 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 294.4 173.9 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets and deferred acquisition costs 589.0 594.8 Net increase in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 19.1 13.1 Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 59.2 34.3 Net decrease increase in trade and other payables including insurance payables 57.9 175.9 Contribution to retirement benefit obligations 2.8 2.8 Cash used by operations 315.2 226.6 Taxes paid 94.8 80.2 Cash flow hedges 0.6 0.2 Net cash flow used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 410.6 307.0 Interest received 358.5 574.2 Rental income received from investment property 16.2 11.4 Purchases of investment property 76.2 87.0 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 21.1 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS financial investments 3,141.0 3,147.8 Net decrease in investment loans and receivables 304.8 209.3 Purchases of AFS financial investments 2,644.3 3,422.7 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 1,121.1 433.0 36.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2014 2013: none.
com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 37.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group has entered cancellable and non-cancellable operating lease agreements for properties, vehicles and other assets.
2014 2013 m m Continuing operations Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 25.6 32.2 The minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year in relation to discontinued operations is 2.5 million 2013: 2.8 million.
The following table analyses the outstanding commitments under cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Within one year 17.1 26.9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 55.1 78.6 After five years 176.2 241.1 Total 248.4 346.6 The outstanding commitments in relation to discontinued operations are 11.5 million 2013: 17.1 million of which 1.6 million 2013: 2.9 million is payable within one year, 5.4 million 2013: 6.4 million is payable in the second to fifth years and 4.5 million 2013: 7.8 million is payable after five years.
Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property leased to third-party tenants.
2014 2013 Continuing operations m m Within one year 14.6 13.3 In the second to fifth years inclusive 51.7 45.3 After five years 99.6 85.9 Total 165.9 144.5 There were no commitments by third parties to make lease payments to the Groups discontinued operations at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial statements 38.
Fair value The methodology adopted by the Group for fair value measurement of investment properties, financial assets and liabilities and the basis for determining fair value hierarchy are explained in note 2.3.
Comparison of carrying value to fair value of financial instruments The following table compares the carrying value and the fair value of financial instruments excluding the disposal group note 5B.
Differences arise where the measurement basis of the asset or liability is not fair value e. g. assets liabilities carried at amortised cost.
Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Financial assets Derivative assets note 24 27.3 27.3 40.7 40.7 1 AFS debt securities note 25 5,830.3 5,830.3 7,005.5 7,005.5 Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months note 25 54.7 54.7 435.7 435.7 Infrastructure debt note 25 76.0 76.2 Financial liabilities Subordinated liabilities note 29 651.9 526.3 625.4 486.6 Derivative liabilities note 24 29.4 29.4 19.3 19.3 Note: 1.
Included in the disposal group note 5B in 2014 are AFS debt securities with a fair value and carrying value of 706.9 million that are excluded from the AFS debt securities above.
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities including assets and liabilities held in the disposal group note 5B approximate their carrying values: Insurance and other receivables Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings Trade and other payables including insurance payables excluding provisions Fair value hierarchy analysis The following tables analyse the Groups assets and liabilities carried at fair value excluding the disposal group note 5B by reference to the Groups fair value hierarchy.
Included in the disposal group note 5B in 2014 are AFS debt securities of 706.9 million, that are excluded from the categorisation of AFS debt securities above, of which 31.9 million is categorised as level 1 and 675.0 million is categorised as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 December 2013 m m m m Investment property note 19 223.4 223.4 Derivative assets note 24 40.7 40.7 AFS debt securities note 25 1,393.7 5,611.8 7,005.5 Total 1,393.7 5,652.5 223.4 7,269.6 Derivative liabilities note 24 19.3 19.3 Total 19.3 19.3 The movements in assets classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy are all within Investment property which are analysed in note 19.
There were no changes in the categorisation of assets between Levels 1, 2 and 3 during the year for assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2013. www.
com 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Related parties On 27 February 2014, RBS Group announced the completion of the sale of its remaining interest of 423.2 million Ordinary Shares in the Company.
RBS Group has now sold all its Ordinary Shares in the Company except for the shares held to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group management.
Transactions with RBS Group in the year ended 31 December 2014 were similar in nature to those for the year ended 31 December 2013.
However, following the sale on 27 February 2014, transactions with RBS Group are no longer included in the tables below, as the related party relationship ceased from the sale date.
Transactions with related parties 2014 2013 m m Sale of insurance contracts and other services 0.3 3.2 Purchase of services 19.7 145.8 Sale and purchase of products and services are conducted on an arms length basis.
Year end related balances arising from cash and investment transactions with related parties 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank 64.7 Bank overdrafts 55.1 Derivative financial assets 20.0 Derivative financial liabilities 18.5 Term deposits 35.0 AFS debt securities 48.6 Total 94.7 Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Total 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7 Movement in amounts owed by to related parties Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m At 1 January 0.9 5.1 58.7 34.7 Transactions in the year 0.1 0.2 19.1 147.1 Settled in the year 0.8 4.4 52.4 123.1 At 31 December 0.2 0.9 25.4 58.7 Compensation of key management 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 10.2 9.1 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.2 Termination benefits 0.4 0.2 Share-based payments 3.4 1.9 Total 14.3 11.4 40.
Post balance sheet events On 13 January 2015 the Group announced its intention to close its sites at Pudsey and vacate the premises, with all roles being transferred to the Groups Leeds offices.
These sites which are owned by the Group have been impaired in 2015 by approximately 22.0 million.
Marketing of these sites will begin shortly.
160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 16 0 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
