Other information Forward-looking statements disclaimer This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no performance.
The Groups actual results of operations, other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents financial condition and the development of the business sector or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to in which the Group operates may differ materially from those whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come suggested by the forward-looking statements contained in this and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
document, for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic business Certain information contained in this document, including any conditions, market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest information as to the Groups strategy, plans or future financial rates and exchange rates, the policies and actions of or operating performance, constitutes forward-looking regulatory authorities including changes related to capital and statements.
These forward-looking statements may be solvency requirements or the Ogden discount rate, the impact identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including of competition, currency changes, inflation and deflation, the the terms aims, anticipates, aspire, believes, timing impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, continue, could, estimates, expects, guidance, disposals, joint ventures or combinations within relevant intends, may, outlook, plans, predicts, projects, industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation seeks, should, targets or will or, in each case, their and other regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group and negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by its affiliates operate.
In addition, even if the Groups actual discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events results of operations, financial condition and the development or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include all of the business sector in which the Group operates are matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this of places throughout this document and include statements document, those results or developments may not be indicative regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Directors concerning, among other things: the Groups results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies The forward-looking statements contained in this document and the industry in which the Group operates.
Examples of reflect knowledge and information available as of the date of forward-looking statements include financial targets which are preparation of this document.
The Group and the Directors contained in this document specifically with respect to RoTE, expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update or risk-based capital coverage ratio, the Groups COR and cost revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a savings.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless risk and uncertainties because they relate to events and required to do so by applicable law or regulation.
Nothing in depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
future or are beyond the Groups control.
Neither the content of Direct Line Groups website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on the Groups website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
