Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic and Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Charles Wilson Jonathan Prentis Director Director 21 May 2014 50 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BOOKER GROUP PLC ONLY Our response Our audit procedures included, amongst Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit others, evaluating the critical judgements made by the Directors 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements in respect of both the date of acquisition, the fair value of the is unmodified purchase consideration and the fair value of the assets and We have audited the financial statements of Booker Group plc liabilities acquired.
In respect of the date of acquisition, we for the year ended 28 March 2014 set out on pages 55 to 92. critically assessed the facts and circumstances surrounding In our opinion: the transaction and took into consideration the undertakings provided to the Competition Authorities in respect of the hold the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state separate requirements for the period prior to control being of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at obtained.
In our examination of the Directors assessment 28 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then of the fair value of consideration paid, which was equivalent ended: to the fair value of the investment in Makro at the date of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared acquisition, we critically assessed the Directos judgement that in accordance with International Financial Reporting the re-measurement of fair value at acquisition resulted in no Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as change to the fair value recorded at the previous balance sheet adopted by the EU : date of 29 March 2013.
We did this through an assessment of the performance of, and consideration of potential changes the parent company financial statements have been in, the underlying business to which the investment related.
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting We challenged the Directors assessment of the fair value of Standards: and the assets and liabilities acquired with reference to evidence the financial statements have been prepared in accordance provided by the Directors and by third parties such as with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as property surveyors in relation to those fair values.
The most regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS significant fair value assessment related to property valuations Regulation.
in respect of the freehold properties acquired.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement this, we obtained the third party property valuation used by the Directors and critically assessed the assumptions adopted In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements in the valuation of the property portfolio to ensure that it was the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect prepared on a reasonable and appropriate basis.
Where on our audit were as follows.
appropriate, we utilised our own specialists to further assess the values adopted.
Because the fair value of consideration Fair values of assets and liabilities in relation to the paid and the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired resulted acquisition of Makro Holding UK Limited and its in a gain on bargain purchase, we considered whether this was subsidiaries Makro an indication of inappropriate fair values having been applied Refer to page 27 Audit Committee Report, page 61 in the acquisition accounting through a detailed assessment of accounting policy and page 70 financial disclosures.
the calculations, source documentation and consideration of possible omitted adjustments.
The risk The Group entered into an unconditional agreement to acquire Makro on 4 July 2012, however the acquisition was We have also considered the adequacy of the Groups subject to approval by the Competition authorities and, as a disclosures in respect of the acquisition of Makro.
result, was not completed until 19 April 2013.
The Group is required, under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, to consolidate Valuation of property provisions Makro from the date it secured control of the business, which Refer to page 27 Audit Committee Report, page 64 the Directors deemed, in accordance with the provisions of accounting policy and page 82 financial disclosures.
IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, to be 19 April 2013.
At this date the Group was required to evaluate The risk The Group has recorded a number of property the fair value of purchase consideration which, as the Group related provisions on its balance sheet, principally in respect already held Makro as an investment prior to securing control, of onerous leases.
These provisions require the application of was equal to the fair value of the investment at the date of assumptions, including the expected cash flows associated acquisition and the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired.
with the properties over the remaining lease term, the expected Both the assessment of control and the determination of fair utilisation of the properties, and the rate used to discount future values on acquisition are areas that are open to interpretation, cash flows to account for the time value of money.
As such there judgement and estimate.
As such there is a risk that the date is a risk that the provisions, and associated charges or credits of acquisition, the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in the statement of comprehensive income, are materially at that date, the fair value of the purchase consideration, and misstated through the use of inappropriate assumptions.
consequently the gain on bargain purchase recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, could be materially misstated through inappropriate judgements or the incorrect application of accounting requirements.
51 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BOOKER GROUP PLC ONLY CONTINUED Our response Our procedures included, amongst others, 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of obtaining the provision calculations for a sample of properties, the scope of our audit sampled from a complete list of vacant properties, including The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole the discounted cash flow assessments and associated was set at 6.0m.
This has been determined with reference assumptions set by the Directors, where relevant.
We to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation, which we assessed the assumptions adopted in respect of the expected consider to be one of the principal considerations for members usage of the properties during the lease term and the of the Company in assessing the financial performance of the anticipated cash flows through challenging the estimates and group.
Materiality represents 4.9% of Group profit before tax forecasts prepared by the Directors.
In doing so we critically and 5.1% of Group profit before tax adjusted for exceptional evaluated the underlying assumptions and compared these items as disclosed on the face of the income statement.
to the Groups supporting internal and external data.
We read Board minutes to compare the assumptions in relation to the We agreed with the Audit Committee to report to it all corrected proposed usage of the properties with the documented plans and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit noted in those minutes, where available.
Where appropriate, with a value in excess of 0.3 million, in addition to other audit we compared the assumptions with the current circumstances misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted and the Directors current expectations going forward.
We reporting on qualitative grounds.
critically evaluated the discount rate used to discount forecast cash flows associated with the properties by comparing the Audits for group reporting purposes were performed by the group audit team at the two key reporting components in rate to market data and we performed our own sensitivity analysis of the provision to changes in the rate used.
These group audit procedures covered 98% of total Group revenue: 91% of Group profit before taxation: and 98% critically evaluated any changes in the assumptions used to assess the level of provision compared to previous years to of total Group assets.
ensure that changes were appropriate and supportable.
The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed We have evaluated the disclosures provided in the Group financial statements in respect of the provisions in accordance to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 3.2m to 5.0m.
with the requirements of IAS 37.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Valuation of the defined benefit pension scheme Companies Act 2006 is unmodified Refer to page 27 Audit Committee Report, page 61 accounting policy and page 80 financial disclosures.
In our opinion: The risk Significant estimates are made in valuing the Groups the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has post-retirement defined benefit scheme and small changes been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies in assumptions and estimates used to value the groups net Act 2006: pension deficit would have a significant effect on the results the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors and financial position of the Group.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial Our response In this area our audit procedures included, statements: and amongst others, testing of the controls over the maintenance of the schemes membership data as well as sample testing the information given in the Corporate Governance Report from that data to the source documentation establishing the on pages [xx] with respect to internal control and risk obligation to members, and vice versa.
With the support of management systems in relation to financial reporting our own actuarial specialists, we then challenged the key processes and about share capital structures is consistent assumptions applied to that data to determine the Groups with the financial statements.
net deficit, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality life expectancy.
This included a comparison of these key assumptions against externally derived data.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the deficits to these assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in relation to the pension scheme, including the disclosures in respect of the change in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of the revisions to IAS 19.
52 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters Scope and responsibilities on which we are required to report by exception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 50, the Directors are responsible Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you for the preparation of the financial statements and for being if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description we have identified other information in the annual report that of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or org.
This report is made solely that is otherwise misleading.
to the Companys members as a body and is subject to In particular, we are required to report to you if: important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com we have identified material inconsistencies between the uk auditscopeukco2013a, which are incorporated into this knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an statement that they consider that the annual report and understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy: or Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Statutory Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Chartered Accountants you if, in our opinion: St James Square Manchester adequate accounting records have not been kept by the M2 6DS parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 21 May 2014 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Report has not been prepared by the company Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 17, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Report on page 20 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
