16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 59 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in 59 any doubt as to what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty fifth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will be held at The Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, Princes Street, Edinburgh on Friday, 18 July 2014 at 11.00 am, for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 March 2014: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy: 3.
To approve the Chairmans Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration: 4.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares: 5.
To re-elect Jim Pettigrew as a Director of the Company: 6.
To re-elect Gordon McQueen as a Director of the Company: 7.
To re-elect Maxwell Ward as a Director of the Company: 8.
To re-elect Victoria Hastings as a Director of the Company: 9.
To re-elect Glen Suarez as a Director of the Company: 10.
To re-elect Sir Nigel Wicks as a Director of the Company: 11.
To appoint KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Company: and 12.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditor.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which 13 and 14 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 15, 16 and 17 as Special Resolutions: 13.
THAT: the changes to the Investment Objective and Investment Policy wording set out on page8 of the Annual Financial Report be and are hereby approved.
THAT: in substitution for any existing authority under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution the Directors of the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Act as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, shares up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 4,877,918, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at27 May 2014, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier unless the authority is renewed or revoked at any other general meeting prior to such time, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 60 60 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 15.
THAT: subject to the passing of resolution number 14 set out in the notice of this meeting the Section 551 Resolution and in substitution for any existing authority under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby empowered, in accordance with sections 570 and 573 of the Act as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1, 2 and 3 of the Act for cash, either pursuant to the authority given by the Section 551 Resolution or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity securities where the equity securities attributable respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,877,918, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at27 May 2014 and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier unless the authority is renewed or revoked at any other general meeting prior to such time, but so that this power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this resolution.
THAT: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of the issued ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 29,247,998 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 27 May 2014 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: d any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless the authority is renewed or revoked at any other general meeting prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 61 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 61 g any shares so purchased shall be cancelled, or, if the Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of Section 724 to 731 of the Companies Act 2006 and any applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 727 or 729 of the Companies Act 2006 as Treasury Shares.
THAT: the period of notice required for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 days.
For an explanation of all Special Business please refer to page 31 of the Report of the Directors Report.
th Dated this27 May 2014 By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Secretary Following the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will have the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives from the Manager informally.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his stead.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: via Capital Registrars website www.
com: or in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below and in each case, to be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any changes of instructions to proxies through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 62 62 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 3.
A form of appointment of proxy is enclosed.
Appointment of a proxy whether by completion of a form of appointment of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction does not prevent a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged at the office of the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF by no later than 11.00 am on 16 July 2014.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 16 July 2014 a member is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any changes to the Register of Members after such time and date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Management Engagement and Nominations Committees and the Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any business day excluding public holidays until the close of the AGM and will also be available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior and during the meeting.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any member attending the AGM has the right to ask questions.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 the Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the AGM that the question be answered.
You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice or in any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
As at27 May 2014 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 195,116,734.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2013: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2013 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the annual financial report was laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case that the members propose to raise at the relevant AGM.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
