16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 67 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Portfolio Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective of achieving: Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
the growth in the FTSE All Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio inflation.
Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK The Company has two debenture stocks in issue.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Property Income Trust Limited A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to The Company is a closed-ended investment company with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed limited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to income instruments.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
repay its bank borrowings and other liabilities and, having Invesco Income Growth Trust plc met these obligations, to provide a return for shareholders.
Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that The Company holds a diversified portfolio of European of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over commercial properties and is geared by bank debt.
time, grows at above the rate of inflation.
The Company may Keystone Investment Trust plc use bank borrowings.
Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has formerly Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited debenture stocks in issue.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst Aims to provide shareholders with capital growth and real seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the interest markets.
The Company has a debenture stocks in attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of issue and, in addition, may use bank borrowings.
capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo financing to enhance returns.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys small to medium sized UK-quoted companies.
The Company shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of may use bank borrowings.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific Ex Japan Index, predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio measured in sterling.
The Company may use bank of equities worldwide.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in differing economic and inflationary environments and with using mainly transparently-priced exchange-traded futures contracts and other derivative instruments to gain such low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and exposure and to provide leverage.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 68 Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16310
