16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 65 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
Discount Premium The amount by which the mid-market price per share of an investment trust is lower higher than the net asset value per share.
The discount premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value of the share.
Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the current share price.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested, with debt at par.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that a company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and investments in money market funds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value NAV Also described as shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Cash This reflects the Companys net exposure to cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
Ongoing Charges Ratio This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at market value reported in the period.
Return The return generated in the period from the investments.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any income returns.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of capital and income returns in the period.
The NAV total return reflects capital changes in the NAV and dividends paid in the period.
Share Price Total Return The share price total return reflects the change in the share price with dividends reinvested in the period, and is also known as total shareholder return.
16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 16310 Edinburgh pp59 68 29 05 2014 14:13 Page 66 66 The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management in excess of $779.4 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under Management as at 30 April 2014.
