16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page10 10 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 BUSINESS REVIEW continued Analysis of Performance Analysis of Performance analyses the relative performance of the Company to its FOR YEAR TOTAL RETURN BASIS ENDED benchmark index.
31 MARCH 2014 Relative performance represents the % arithmatic difference between the NAV and Net asset value total return 12.5 the benchmark.
Benchmark total return 8.8 Net gearing effect measures the impact of Relative performance 3.7 the debenture stocks and cash on the Analysis of Relative Performance Companys relative performance.
This will be positive if the portfolio has positive Portfolio total return 13.1 performance.
Less Benchmark total return 8.8 Interest arising from the debenture stocks Portfolio outperformance 4.3 reduces the assets available to invest and has Debenture borrowings: a negative impact on performance.
Net gearing effect 2.3 Interest 1.7 Management fees the base fee and any Base management fee 0.6 performance fee reduce the Companys net Performance fee 0.4 assets and decrease performance.
Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.1 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect Total 3.7 for relative performance.
Financial Position and Borrowings At 31 March 2014 the Companys net assets were valued at 1,227.8 million 2013: 1,137.7 million comprising principally a portfolio of equity investments, cash and borrowings.
Borrowings were in the 3 1 form of two 100 million debentures.
The 7 4% debenture matures in 2022 and the 11 2% debenture matures on 30 June 2014.
As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, the Company has negotiated a new 100 million bank revolving credit facility and this will be used to repay the debenture and provide more flexible gearing.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of up to 10% of assets held by the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2014: this facility is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences and was largely unused during the year.
Outlook, including the Future of the Company The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report of this Strategic Report.
Further details of the principal risks affecting the Company follow.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark and an increase in dividends by more than the growth in RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
