Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eightieth Annual General Meeting of Electra Private Equity PLC will be held at 12.00 noon on Monday 16 March 2015 in The Livery Hall at The Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London, EC2R 8AD for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and Auditors and the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2014.
To approve the Annual Report on Remuneration as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2014.
To re-elect Mr R Yates as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dame Kate Barker as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms F Barnes as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr G Cullinan as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mrs J Gold as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr R Perkin as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution as a Special Resolution: 11.
Special resolution to renew share buyback authority: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,330,427 or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : and v unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 16 June 2016 or the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2016 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital, Company Secretary Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London, EC4M 8AB 26 November 2014 140 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Notes 1 Members of the Company who are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
2 A member may vote at the Annual General Meeting subject to being on the Register of Members as at 6pm on 12 March 2015.
3 A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, the Form of Proxy and any power of attorney under which it is executed or a duly certified copy of any such power must reach the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA, not less than 48 hours, excluding non-working days, before the time of the Meeting i. e. 12.00 noon on 12 March 2015 or adjourned Meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the Meeting or adjourned Meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
Replacement forms of proxy may be obtained from the Companys Registrar.
4 In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those holders of ordinary shares entered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6pm on 12 March 2015 the Specified Time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the Specified Time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purposes of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purposes of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6pm on the date two days prior to the adjourned Meeting.
5 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 March 2015 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CREST specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 141 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview 6 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
7 Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every member and every duly appointed proxy who is present in person shall have one vote.
On a poll vote, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
8 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A member that is a company may appoint either a proxy or a corporate representative.
Members wishing to appoint a corporate representative should examine the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
9 Under Regulation 12, Section 319A of the Shareholder Rights Directive, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the Meeting put by a member at the Meeting.
However, the Company need not answer if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting: b to answer would involve the disclosure of confidential information: c the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: d it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
10 Information about the Annual General Meeting is published on www.
11 The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the Meeting: a the current Articles of Association of the Company: and b the terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
12 Short biographical details regarding all the Directors are to be found on pages 128 and 129.
13 The total number of issued ordinary shares voting rights in the Company on 25 November 2014, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document, is 35,559,892.
14 Shareholders may require the Company to place on its website a statement, made available also to the Companys auditors, setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Independent Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit, which shareholders intend to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company becomes required to place such a statement on the website once a members with at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or b at least 100 members who are entitled to vote and on whose shares an average sum per member of at least 100 has been paid have submitted such a request to the Company.
Members seeking to do this should write to the Company providing their full name and address.
15 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Electra Private Equity PLC, you should pass this document and other relevant accompanying documents other than any personalised form of proxy and or letter to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale transfer was made for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
142 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Contact Details Board of Directors Depositary Roger Yates Chairman Ipes Depositary UK Limited Dame Kate Barker 10 Lower Grosvenor Place Francesca Barnes London Geoffrey Cullinan SW1W 0EN Josyane Gold Roger Perkin Registrar and Transfer Office Telephone 44 0 20 7214 4200 Equiniti Limited www.
com Aspect House Spencer Road Secretary Lancing Frostrow Capital LLP West Sussex BN99 6DA 25 Southampton Buildings Telephone UK 0871 384 2351 London WC2A 1AL Textel Hard of hearing line UK Telephone 44 0 20 3008 4910 0871 384 2255 Telephone Overseas Registered Office 44 121 415 7047 Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard Calls to these numbers cost London EC4M 8AB 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Company Number 303062 Manager Electra Partners LLP Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard London EC4M 8AB Telephone 44 0 20 7214 4200 www.
com Investor Relations Andrew Kenny and Nicholas Board Telephone 44 0 20 7214 4200 Email ir@electrapartners.
com Registered Independent Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditors 7 More London Riverside London SE1 2RT Stockbroker J. P. Morgan Cazenove Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 143 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Notes 144 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Contents Overview 1 About Electra Private Equity 2 Financial Highlights 3 Long-term Performance Strategic and business review 4 Chairmans Statement 7 Strategic Report Managers Review 14 The Manager 20 Investment Highlights 22 Portfolio Overview 24 Portfolio Review 31 Market Review 32 Key New Investments and Realisations 42 Key Investments 44 Large Private Equity Investments 58 Financial Review Financial Statements 61 Consolidated Income Statement 61 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 62 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 63 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 64 Consolidated Balance Sheet 65 Company Balance Sheet 66 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 67 Company Cash Flow Statement 68 Notes to the Financial Statements 98 Independent Auditors Report Governance 106 Objective and Investment Policy 107 Report of the Directors 114 Directors Remuneration Report 119 Corporate Governance 124 Report of the Audit Committee 126 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Further Information 128 Board of Directors 130 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 134 Information for Shareholders 137 Ten Year Record 138 Glossary 140 Notice of Annual General Meeting 143 Contact Details References in this announcement to Electra Private Equity PLC and its subsidiaries have been abbreviated to Electra or the Company.
References to Electra Partners LLP have been abbreviated to Electra Partners or the Manager.
ELECTRA PRIVATE EQUITY PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Electra Private Equity PLC Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard London EC4M 8AB T: 44 0 20 7214 4200 www.
com Electra Private Equity PLC Report and Accounts This Report and Accounts is printed on FSC certified paper, using fully sustainable, vegetable oil-based inks.
The paper supplying mill is ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified and operates to EMAS standards.
The mill is fully integrated, manufacturing pulp and paper on site, therefore reducing energy consumption and carbon output.
Printed by Nicholas Gray Limited.
