Information for Shareholders Financial Calendar for 2015 Annual General Meeting 16 March 2015 Half-year Results announced May 2015 Annual Results announced November December 2015 Website and Electra News via Email For further information on share and Bond prices, regulatory news and other information, please visit www.
If you would like to receive email notice of our announcements please visit the Electra website at www.
com and click on the Subscribe to receive news alerts logo on the Home page.
Registering for email alerts will not stop you receiving Annual Reports or any other documents you have selected to receive by post.
Shareholder Enquiries In the event of queries regarding your ordinary shareholding, please contact the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, who will be able to assist you with: registered holdings balance queries lost certificates change of address notifications Equiniti Limiteds full details are provided on page 143 or please visit www.
If you are an existing shareholder and wish to buy more sell your shares in Electra: An internet and telephone dealing service has been arranged through Equiniti, which provides a simple way for UK shareholders of Electra to buy or sell Electras shares.
For full details and terms and conditions simply log onto www.
Please note that lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays and calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
The service is only available to shareholders of Electra who hold shares in their own name, with a UK registered address, who are aged 18 and over.
Shareview Dealing is provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
Equiniti Financial Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority of 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS FCA reference 468631.
Equiniti Financial Services Limited is registered in England and Wales with number 6208699.
If you are not an existing shareholder: We recommend you seek your own personal financial advice from an appropriately qualified independent adviser or alternatively contact your own broker.
Electra Private Equitys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange as ELTA.
The above information is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares.
The value of shares and any income from them can fluctuate and you may get back less than the amount invested.
If you have any doubt over what action you should take, please contact an authorised financial adviser.
Dividend policy It is the policy of the Directors not to pay dividends unless required to do so to maintain Electras investment trust status.
134 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder total return performance for 1,000 invested As at 30 September 2014 10,000 10000 Electra share price 9,000 9000 Morningstar PE Index share price ex.
Electra 8,000 FTSE All-Share Index 8000 7,000 7000 6,000 6000 5,000 5000 4,000 4000 3,000 3000 2,000 2000 1,000 1000 0 0 5 years 10 years 15 years 20 years The above index, prepared by Morningstar UK Limited, reflects the performance of 19 private equity vehicles, excluding Electra, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading Information Ordinary shares Listing London Stock Exchange ISIN GB0003085445 SEDOL 0308544 Ticker EPIC code ELTA Bloomberg ELTALN Reuters ELTAL Convertible Bond What is a Convertible Bond?
A convertible bond is a tradable debt that can be converted into a predetermined amount of the companys equity during its life.
In the case of Electra, 100 million of Convertible Bonds were raised in December 2010.
Each bond was priced at 1,000 per bond and generates 5% interest per annum payable semi-annually in equal instalments in arrears on 29 June and 29 December in accordance with the terms of the Prospectus.
Bondholders can convert their bonds into Electra shares at any time within the life of the bond expires 2017 in accordance with the terms of the Prospectus.
The conversion price in effect immediately upon issue of the bonds is 2,050p.
The Convertible Bond is listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be traded like other listed securities.
The Company has the option to convert all of the Bonds to ordinary shares on or after 29 December 2015.
This option is exercisable providing that on each of at least 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the Parity Value shall have exceeded 130% of the principal amount of the Bond.
Parity Value is the number of ordinary shares each Bond will convert into multiplied by the volume weighted average price of an ordinary share.
This option is additionally exercisable if 85% or more of the original principal amount of the Bonds have been redeemed converted.
In the unlikely event of Electra winding up, the Bondholders would rank above the ordinary shareholders in terms of being entitled to the capital of Electra.
For further information please visit our website www.
Trading Information Convertible Bond Listing London Stock Exchange ISIN GB00B5B0NW64 SEDOL B5B0NW6 Ticker EPIC code ELTC Bloomberg ELTALN5 12 29 2017 Corp. Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 135 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Zero Dividend Preference Shares What is a Zero Dividend Preference Share?
ZDPs are a class of share with a limited life.
They provide no annual income or dividend but instead will pay out a fixed amount of capital known as the final capital entitlement at a specific date in the future known as the redemption date.
In the case of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC, 46 million of ZDPs were raised in 2009 and have a redemption date of 5 August 2016.
In the unlikely event of Electra winding up, the holders of ZDPs would rank above both the holders of Convertible Bonds and the ordinary shareholders in terms of being entitled to the capital of Electra.
Share Fraud Warning We are aware that in the past a number of shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are commonly known as Boiler Room scams.
Please be very wary of any such calls or correspondence.
Ask for the name and organisation of the person calling you and check if they can be found on the FCA Register.
If they are not listed, please report it directly to the FCA using their consumer helpline 0800 111 6768 or at www.
You may also wish to advise us by telephoning 020 7214 4200 or emailing ir@electrapartners.
It is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders.
Such calls would only relate to official documentation already circulated to shareholders and never be in respect of investment advice.
Please remember that if you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
Other Useful Websites LPEQ Electra is a founder member of LPEQ, a group of private equity investment trusts and similar vehicles listed on the London Stock Exchange and other major European stock markets, formed to raise awareness and increase understanding of listed private equity.
LPEQ provides information on private equity in general, and the listed sector in particular, undertaking and publishing research and working to improve levels of knowledge about private equity among investors and their advisers.
For further information visit www.
com Association of Investment Companies AIC Electra is a member of the AIC, the trade organisation for closed-ended investment companies.
The AIC represents a broad range of closed-ended investment companies, including investment trusts, offshore investment companies and venture capital trusts which are traded on the London Stock Exchange, Alternative Investment Market, Special Financials Market, Euronext and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
co. uk British Private Equity & Venture Capital Association BVCA Electra is a member of the BVCA, the industry body and public policy advocate for the private equity and venture capital industry in the UK.
The BVCAs aim is to aid understanding around the activities of its members, promote the private equity and venture capital industry to entrepreneurs and investors as well as to Government, the EU, trade unions, international media and the general public.
They communicate the industrys impact and reinforce the crucial role its members play in the global economy as a catalyst for change and growth.
co. uk 136 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014
