Glossary Carried interest The incentive arrangements, which are similar to arrangements found elsewhere in the private equity industry, are designed to align Electra Partners interests with Electra shareholders.
These arrangements are typically referred to as carried interest.
The carried interest payable to the members of Electra Partners is based on three year pools of investments.
Under the terms of this arrangement all qualifying investments in a three year period are aggregated into a separate pool.
Electra must first receive back the aggregate cost of all the investments in the pool, plus related priority profit share see below and an 8% compound return this is often referred to as the hurdle.
Once Electra has received sufficient cash to pay the amounts as described above the members of Electra Partners will be entitled to a carried interest of 18% of the profits.
Consequently, they will receive the next 18 82 of the hurdle so that they will have an amount equal to 18% of the profits on the pool up to that point this is referred to as a catch up.
Thereafter, Electra and the members of Electra Partners will share future cash flows in the ratio of 82:18.
Below is an example to illustrate in principle how the above described arrangements work: m Assumptions Amount invested 500 Amount invested and priority profit share Amount realised 1,000 Realised after year five Pool profit 500 Hurdle 210 8% per annum compound Catch up 46 18 82 of the hurdle Balance 44 The amount over the hurdle to get to an aggregate 18% of the pool profit Total carry 90 18% Electra 369 82% Commitments Legal obligation to provide capital for future investment in a private equity fund or in relation to a single investment.
Discount Investment trust shares frequently trade at a discount to NAV.
This occurs when the share price is less than the NAV.
In this circumstance, the price that a shareholder would pay or receive for a share would be less than the value attributable to it by reference to the underlying assets.
Earnings multiple This is normally referred to as a price earnings P E ratio.
It is the ratio of a companys valuation compared to its earnings.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
Often used to compare the profitability of similar companies.
EBITDA margin EBITDA expressed as a percentage derived by dividing EBITDA by net sales.
EV enterprise value This is the aggregate value of a companys entire issued share capital and net debt.
Gearing This is the level of a companys debt related to its equity capital and is usually expressed in percentage form.
It shows the extent to which a company is funded by lenders as opposed to shareholders.
Hedging Hedging is an investment technique designed to offset a potential loss on one investment by purchasing a second investment that is expected to perform in the opposite way.
138 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 IPO initial public offering An offering by a company of its share capital to the public with a view to seeking an admission of its shares to a recognised stock exchange.
IRR internal rate of return Is the annualised return on an investment calculated from the cash flows arising from that investment taking account of the timing of each cash flow.
It is derived by computing the discount rate at which the present value of all subsequent cash flows arising from an investment are equal to the original amount invested.
Listed company Any company where the shares are freely tradable and are listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange.
NAV This is the value of all the Companys assets minus current and long-term liabilities.
Can also be referred to as shareholders funds.
NAV per share This is the value of the Companys assets attributable to one Ordinary share.
It is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the total number of Ordinary shares in issue.
Permanent Capital An investment entity that manages capital for an unlimited time horizon.
Priority Profit Share This is a share of profits equivalent to a management fee.
It is calculated at 1.5% of the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash.
Return on Equity ROE This is the total return divided by opening shareholder funds.
Electras ROE has been calculated by taking the percentage change in diluted NAV per share and adding back dividends paid per share.
Total return The total return to shareholders is the aggregate of income and capital profits of the investment portfolio for the year less all costs.
Unlisted company Any company whose shares are not listed or traded on a recognised stock exchange.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 139 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
