Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 77 76 77 Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 Year ended Year ended 1 General information 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 esure Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
Notes m m The nature of the Groups operations is the writing of general insurance for private cars and homes.
The Companys principal activity Cash flows from operating activities is that of a holding company.
Profit after tax for the period 82.4 93.2 All of the Companys subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, except for esure S. L. which is incorporated in Spain.
Adjustments to reconcile profit after tax to net cash flows: Finance costs 12 0.3 2.2 2 Accounting policies 17 1.1 0.7 Basis of preparation Depreciation and revaluation of property, plant and equipment These financial statements present the esure Group plc group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014, Amortisation of intangible assets 16 3.2 3.6 comprising the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated Unrealised investment gains losses 2.0 2.0 statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes, as well as the comparatives.
26 2.0 1.8 Share scheme charges These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Share of profit after tax of joint venture 11 8.5 8.5 as adopted by the European Union.
Taxation expense 13 20.9 25.2 These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The financial performance and position of the 13.3 18.7 Interest, dividends and realised gains on financial investments Group, its cash flows and its approach to capital management are set out in the financial review on pages 23 to 28.
The Group has a strong financial position with robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and capital significantly in excess of the minimum Instalment interest receivable 30.5 30.8 regulatory requirement.
In addition, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including Operating cash flows before movements in working capital, tax and interest paid 55.6 70.7 cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate Sales of financial investments 383.0 570.3 resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months.
Purchase of financial investments 451.6 532.3 These consolidated financial statements have been presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Throughout Interest and dividends received on financial investments 16.2 18.0 these consolidated financial statements any amounts which are less than 0.05m are shown by 0.0, whereas a dash represents that no balance exists.
Instalment interest received 30.5 31.1 Changes in working capital: The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and land and buildings that are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
0.3 15.6 Increase in insurance and other receivables Changes to accounting policies 52.3 23.8 Decrease in insurance contract liabilities and insurance and other payables There have been no new standards or interpretations adopted by the Group during the period.
The Group has adopted the following Taxation paid 22.1 29.6 amendments to standards during the period, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014: Net cash generated in operating activities 41.0 88.8 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
These amendments address inconsistencies in Cash flows from investing activities current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 for financial assets and liabilities.
The adoption of these Dividends received from joint venture 8.8 6.0 amendments has had no impact on the Groups accounting policies.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment, and software 16, 17 16.0 2.5 Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting.
These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
The Net cash from investing activities 7.2 3.5 adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the Group as the Group has not novated its derivatives during the current Cash flows used in financing activities or prior year.
Proceeds on issue of Ordinary Shares 25 0.0 50.0 Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
These amendments remove the unintended Transaction costs of issue of Ordinary Shares 25 6.0 consequences of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement on the disclosures required under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
In addition, Share repurchase 25 44.9 these amendments require disclosure of the recoverable amounts for the assets or cash-generating units CGUs for which an Capital reduction 25 40.0 impairment loss has been recognised or reversed during the period.
The adoption of these amendments has had no impact on the disclosure provided in the Groups financial statements.
Interest paid 2.2 There are a number of other new standards and amendments to standards with a date of initial application of 1 January 2014, the Issue repayment of loans 18 122.1 50.6 adoption of which has had no material effect on the Groups accounting policies.
Dividends paid 14 76.4 10.4 At the date of approval of these financial statements there were no standards, amendments or interpretations in issue and endorsed Net cash used in financing activities 45.7 104.1 by the EU which the Group had not adopted.
The following IFRIC interpretation has been endorsed by the EU, but is not mandatory Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 2.5 11.8 for the year ended 31 December 2014 and has not been early adopted by the Group: Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 22 27.6 39.4 Effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014: IFRIC 21 Levies.
This interpretation clarifies that a Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 25.1 27.6 government or governmental agency levy is not recognised until the obligating event specified in legislation regulation occurs, even if there is no realistic opportunity to avoid the obligation.
The adoption of this interpretation is expected to have no material The notes on pages 77 to 118 are an integral part of these financial statements.
effect on the Groups accounting policies.
There are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB but which have not yet been endorsed by the EU, thus the date and impact of applying these is uncertain.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 e esure Group Annual R sure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 78 78 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtained control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, any intra-group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group trading are eliminated.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group recognises the cost of the investments which, together with the Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income is stated after appropriate adjustments to align the accounting policies of the joint venture with those of the Group.
In addition, adjustments are made for the amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition and to eliminate unrealised profits relating to commission charged to esure Group plc by the joint venture.
Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
Impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
Impairment may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree, plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has an option to measure any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is recognised at the date of acquisition as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Where the excess is negative a gain is recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed in the income statement when incurred.
Revenue Gross written premiums Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy commences.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior accounting periods.
Unearned premiums The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the related policy.
Reinsurance premiums Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
Unearned reinsurance premiums Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date.
Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 79 78 79 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Fees for additional services Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, Additional Services Revenues comprise sales of non-underwritten additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
customers: policy administration fees: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process: car hire suppliers: and, prior to the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, applicable legal Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Revenue earned on the sale of additional services includes both brokerage fees and commission, where the Group has a continuing relationship with the customer, and introducer fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary Revenue relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the later of policy inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where the Group has an obligation to provide future services to the customer an element of income company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
relating to the policy is deferred to cover the cost of fulfilling the associated contractual obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.
Joint ventures Deferred revenue is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide those services.
A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the Where the Group has no contractual obligation to provide future services, the revenue is recognised immediately.
arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The Group recognises the cost of the investments which, together with the In certain circumstances, where the revenue cannot be reliably measured at the contract or policy inception date, broking fees Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included in the consolidated statement of and commission are recognised on a periodic basis when the consideration becomes due.
Rebates of commissions and fees relating financial position.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income is stated after appropriate to the return of premiums for additional insurance products and services are recognised when liability is possible.
adjustments to align the accounting policies of the joint venture with those of the Group.
In addition, adjustments are made for Administration fees are recognised in the period in which the related administration services are provided.
Referral fees from credit the amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition and to eliminate unrealised profits relating hire are recognised at the later of the point of invoice or when the policy fees are due.
to commission charged to esure Group plc by the joint venture.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and Investment income and instalment interest compared to the carrying value.
Impairment may be reversed Investment income including interest received from policyholders who pay by instalment on assets classified as loans and if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
receivables is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
Business combinations The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree, discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree.
For each account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, business combination, the Group has an option to measure any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is recognised at the date of acquisition as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable Investment income also comprises interest and dividend income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Where the excess is negative a gain is recognised in the income statement at the date classified at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised when the right to of acquisition.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and Investment income also includes rental income.
Rental income represents income arising from operating leases and is recognised designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Government grants Revenue Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions Gross written premiums will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy deferred income and released to the income statement in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect Claims and expenses recognition of business written in prior accounting periods.
Gross claims incurred and claims handling expenses Unearned premiums Gross claims include all claims incurred during the year, whether reported or not, less other recoveries, together with related The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred internal and external handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, and any adjustment to as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised claims outstanding from previous years.
as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the Reinsurance claims related policy.
Reinsurance claims are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insurance contracts issued by the Group Reinsurance premiums and the specific terms of the reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group Finance costs and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover Finance costs comprise interest paid which is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 80 80 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 2 Accounting policies continued Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is also recognised outside the income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
For joint ventures, goodwill is not separately presented but is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the Group income statement at the date of acquisition.
Positive goodwill is not amortised.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised impairment loss is not reversed.
Goodwill attributed to an investment in a joint venture accounted under the equity method is not tested for impairment separately.
The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment only if there is objective evidence of impairment.
A recognised impairment loss may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Customer relationships 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Brands 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 81 80 81 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued Taxation Software Current tax Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset, with the carrying value being reviewed at every reporting date for evidence Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The of impairment and the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax recognised impairment may be reversed.
assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Amortisation of software begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other of operating in the manner intended by management.
The cost of purchased software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
expected useful life of the intangible asset.
This has been set between two and seven years.
Deferred tax Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Costs associated with the Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the development of software for internal use are capitalised only if the software is technically feasible for sale or use on completion and carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the the Group has both the intent and sufficient resources to complete the development.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or the cost of the asset can be reliably measured, will generate future economic benefits and there is an ability to use or sell the asset.
substantially enacted by the reporting date.
The cost of internally generated software is amortised over the expected useful life of the intangible asset on a straight-line basis.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the The expected useful life is between three and five years.
Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is also recognised outside the income statement, either in Property, plant and equipment comprises land and buildings occupied by the Group and fixtures, fittings and equipment including other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Land and buildings are stated at their revalued amount, which is the fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at cost less depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Replacement or major inspection Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against costs are capitalised when incurred if it is possible that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity and current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
the costs can be measured reliably.
Foreign currency translation Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, i. e. when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign less residual values of the assets over their economic lives, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
economic lives are as follows: Intangible assets Goodwill Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 3 and 8 years Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Freehold buildings 100 years Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the Group income statement at the date The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected Impairment of goodwill from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
amount of the cash-generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised Impairment and revaluation of property, plant and equipment impairment loss is not reversed.
If any such Goodwill attributed to an investment in a joint venture accounted under the equity method is not tested for impairment separately.
indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount is the The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment only if there is objective evidence of impairment.
A higher of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Impairment losses are recognised through the recognised impairment loss may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
Intangible assets Revaluations of land and buildings are undertaken annually, with more frequent revaluations occurring where an assessment is Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible made that the carrying amount may differ materially from its fair value.
Where a revaluation occurs, any accumulated depreciation assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group at the time of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible comprehensive income, unless they offset previous decreases of the same asset that have been charged to the income statement, assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at in which case the increase is also charged to the income statement.
Similarly, decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset that have been credited to a revaluation surplus are recorded directly in other comprehensive income as a reduction in the every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions revaluation surplus: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
Financial assets The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Classification Customer relationships 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Financial assets falling within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held for trading.
The Group determines Brands 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group does not classify any financial assets as held to maturity financial assets.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, other debtors and quoted and unquoted financial investments including derivatives.
Insurance receivables are also presented as financial assets.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 82 82 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Initial recognition of financial assets The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes at fair value through the profit or loss FVTPL with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, and certain unquoted financial investments whose performance is not evaluated on a fair value basis, which are classified as available-for-sale AFS.
All other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
For those financial investments designated at FVTPL, this is in accordance with the Groups documented investment strategy and is consistent with investment risk being assessed on a portfolio basis.
Information relating to these investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
The Groups financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, plus any directly attributable transaction costs, with the exception of financial assets at FVTPL for which directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
If the Group determines that the fair value of a financial asset on initial recognition differs from its transaction price, but the fair value measurement is not evidenced by a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, then this difference is deferred and is subsequently recognised as investment income only to the extent that it arises from a change in factor including time that a market participant would consider in setting a price.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date.
Subsequent measurement Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss other than impairments recognised through other comprehensive income and accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve.
When available-for-sale financial assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of financial assets Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement Available-for-sale financial assets Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the available-forsale reserve to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
If the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale financial asset subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is reversed through the available-for sale reserve.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 83 82 83 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets continued Reinsurance Initial recognition of financial assets The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its potential losses from accepting The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes at fair value through the profit or insurance risk.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers in respect of claims incurred under loss FVTPL with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, and certain unquoted financial investments the related insurance contracts and are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims whose performance is not evaluated on a fair value basis, which are classified as available-for-sale AFS.
All other financial under the related insurance contracts.
assets are classified as loans and receivables.
For those financial investments designated at FVTPL, this is in accordance with the Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises Groups documented investment strategy and is consistent with investment risk being assessed on a portfolio basis.
Information during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial relating to these investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract The Groups financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, plus any directly attributable transaction costs, with the and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Any impairment loss exception of financial assets at FVTPL for which directly attributable transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
If the Group is recorded in the income statement.
determines that the fair value of a financial asset on initial recognition differs from its transaction price, but the fair value Insurance receivables measurement is not evidenced by a valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets, then this difference is Insurance receivables are recognised when due and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration deferred and is subsequently recognised as investment income only to the extent that it arises from a change in factor including received or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated time that a market participant would consider in setting a price.
impairment losses, using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date.
Available-for-sale Insurance receivables are derecognised when the derecognition criteria for financial asset, as described in the financial asset financial assets are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss other than impairments recognised through other accounting policy, have been met.
comprehensive income and accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve.
When available-for-sale financial assets are derecognised, Deferred acquisition costs DAC the gain or loss accumulated in the available-for-sale reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
Acquisition costs comprise all commission and other direct and indirect acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
premiums provision at the reporting date, and are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums.
Impairment of financial assets All other acquisition costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Subsequent to initial recognition, DAC assets are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
Financial assets measured at amortised cost DAC assets are derecognised when the obligations under the related insurance contracts are either transferred or settled.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and original maturities of three months or less that are held to meet short-term cash commitments rather than for investment receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows or other purposes.
discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement Insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums Available-for-sale financial assets The provision for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in the available-fornot yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when the contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, sale reserve to profit or loss.
The amount reclassified is the difference between the value on initial recognition and the current fair and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss.
If the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale financial provided under the contract.
asset subsequently increases, then the impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that it offsets impairment Liability adequacy test losses previously recognised: otherwise, it is reversed through the available-for sale reserve.
At each reporting date the Group reviews its unexpired risk and performs a liability adequacy test to determine whether the Derecognition of financial assets estimated cost of future claims and deferred acquisition costs exceeds the provision for unearned premiums.
This calculation uses A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset.
to the relevant technical provision.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premium is inadequate, the Offsetting of financial instruments deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a provision for unexpired risk.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position Outstanding claims provision if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net The provision for claims outstanding comprises provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled at basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement the balance sheet date including related claims handling expenses, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
and salvage and subrogation recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
Insurance payables Insurance payables are recognised when due and measured initially at the fair value of the consideration received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Insurance broking debtors and creditors The Group recognises on its balance sheet amounts due to insurers from clients, and money held on behalf of insurers in relation to the insurance transactions that the Company handles on behalf of those parties.
The cash at bank balances presented in these financial statements represent the aggregation of the money held for the benefit of the Company, clients and insurers.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 84 84 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 2 Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include other payables and borrowings.
Insurance payables are also presented as other financial liabilities.
Initial recognition All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
The amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the financial instruments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Leases Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned i. e. when virtually certain.
Group as a lessee operating leases Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 85 84 85 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 2 Accounting policies continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Share-based payments Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions but including the effect of market vesting conditions.
Fair value is not The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Insurance payables are also presented as other The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a financial liabilities.
corresponding increase in equity, based on the best estimate of the number of awards which will ultimately vest unconditionally Initial recognition with employees.
The estimate of the number of awards expected to vest excluding the effect of market vesting conditions is All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable revised at each reporting date, with any consequential changes to the charge recognised in the income statement.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are modified, any incremental fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over Subsequent measurement the revised vesting period.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
3 Critical accounting judgements and estimates Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions costs and all other premiums and discounts.
that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Derecognition of financial liabilities circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates, however, the consolidated financial statements financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability presented are based on conditions that existed at the balance sheet date.
are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies values are negative.
Insurance contract liabilities Estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected Hedge accounting ultimate cost of claims incurred but not reported IBNR at the reporting date.
It can take a significant period of time before The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty and for some types of claims, IBNR claims account for the majority of the Share capital liability in the statement of financial position.
Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by carrying out standard actuarial projections in line with the Institute and financial instruments.
Faculty of Actuaries Technical Actuarial Standards.
These techniques use past claims information and development patterns of Provisions these claims to project the expected future claims cost both for notified and non-notified claims.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of adequacy of provisions for unearned premium can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision and hence whether there is a requirement for an unexpired risk provision.
to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Please refer to note 19 for additional details.
expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the 4 Segmental information liability.
Operating segments The Group has four operating segments as described below.
These segments are also the Groups reportable segments and Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged represent the manner in which the business is regularly reported to the Groups executive and Board of Directors.
to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Motor underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Motor insurance underwriting activities Leases Group as a lessor inclusive of additional insurance products underwritten by the Group.
Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating Home underwriting leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Home insurance underwriting activities.
recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in Non-underwritten additional services which they are earned i. e. when virtually certain.
This segment represents the revenue and expenses relating to sales of third party additional insurance products to Motor and Home Group as a lessee operating leases insurance customers: policy administration fees: instalment interest income: fees generated from the appointment of firms used Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are during the claims process: car hire suppliers: and, prior to the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line Offenders Act 2012 during the year ended 31 December 2013, applicable legal panel membership fees.
basis over the lease term.
Investments This segment represents income from investments to manage liabilities under insurance contracts and generate return for shareholders and an equity holding in a joint venture.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 86 86 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 4 Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Nonunderwritten Motor Home additional underwriting underwriting services Investments Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m Gross written premiums 429.3 88.5 517.8 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 407.7 83.1 490.8 Investment income 12.4 12.4 Instalment interest income 30.5 30.5 Fees for additional services 36.8 36.8 Total income 407.7 83.1 67.3 12.4 570.5 Net incurred claims 284.8 49.1 333.9 Claims handling costs 15.7 2.8 18.5 Insurance expenses 76.1 22.8 98.9 Other operating expenses excl.
amortisation of intangibles 16.3 16.3 Total expenses 376.6 74.7 16.3 467.6 Share of joint venture profit gross of tax and amortisation 12.5 12.5 Trading profit 31.1 8.4 51.0 24.9 115.4 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 3.9 Non-trading costs 5.3 Finance costs 0.3 Profit before taxation 105.9 Tax expense 23.5 Profit after taxation 82.4 Net expense ratio 22.5% 30.8% 23.9% Net loss ratio 69.9% 59.1% 68.0% Combined operating ratio 92.4% 89.9% 91.9% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 1.96m.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 87 86 87 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 4 Segmental information continued 4 Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information Nonunderwritten An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Motor Home additional Nonunderwriting underwriting services Investments Total underwritten Year ended 31 December 2013 m m m m m Motor Home additional Gross written premiums 446.5 89.3 535.8 underwriting underwriting services Investments Total Year ended 31 December 2014 m m m m m Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 407.3 81.9 489.2 Gross written premiums 429.3 88.5 517.8 Investment income 14.7 14.7 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 407.7 83.1 490.8 Instalment interest income 30.8 30.8 Investment income 12.4 12.4 Fees for additional services 38.8 38.8 Instalment interest income 30.5 30.5 Total income 407.3 81.9 69.6 14.7 573.5 Fees for additional services 36.8 36.8 Net incurred claims 273.7 48.6 322.3 Total income 407.7 83.1 67.3 12.4 570.5 Claims handling costs 13.3 2.1 15.4 Net incurred claims 284.8 49.1 333.9 Insurance expenses 79.3 21.6 100.9 Claims handling costs 15.7 2.8 18.5 Other operating expenses excl.
amortisation of intangibles 17.2 17.2 Insurance expenses 76.1 22.8 98.9 Total expenses 366.3 72.3 17.2 455.8 Other operating expenses excl.
amortisation of intangibles 16.3 16.3 Share of joint venture profit gross of tax and amortisation 12.9 12.9 Total expenses 376.6 74.7 16.3 467.6 Trading profit 41.0 9.6 52.4 27.6 130.6 Share of joint venture profit gross of tax and amortisation 12.5 12.5 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.3 Trading profit 31.1 8.4 51.0 24.9 115.4 Non-trading costs 2.8 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 3.9 Finance costs 2.2 Non-trading costs 5.3 Profit before taxation 121.3 Finance costs 0.3 Tax expense 28.1 Profit before taxation 105.9 Profit after taxation 93.2 Tax expense 23.5 Profit after taxation 82.4 Net expense ratio 22.7% 28.9% 23.8% Net loss ratio 67.2% 59.3% 65.9% Net expense ratio 22.5% 30.8% 23.9% Combined operating ratio 89.9% 88.2% 89.7% Net loss ratio 69.9% 59.1% 68.0% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2013 was 1.86m.
Combined operating ratio 92.4% 89.9% 91.9% There are no other material components of income and expense or non-cash items.
The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 1.96m.
Trading profit, being earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, is managements measure of the overall profitability of the Groups operating activities.
The Groups segmental trading profit, comprised of Motor underwriting, Home underwriting, investments and non-underwritten additional services, is 115.4m 2013: 130.6m.
The Groups profit after tax is 82.4m 2013: 93.2m.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 5.3m in 2014 relating to activities associated with the acquisition of Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited see note 30 and share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 26.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 2.8m in 2013, associated with the listing of esure Group plc on the London Stock Exchange and share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 26.
Segmental profit drivers Motor and Home underwriting The performance of the Motor and Home underwriting segments is measured by reference to a number of performance metrics, including in-force policies and the combined operating ratio.
Profitability of segmental underwriting activities is measured by reference to the net loss ratio, being net incurred claims as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Motor underwriting net loss ratio was 69.9% 2013: 67.2% and the Home underwriting net loss ratio was 59.1% 2013: 59.3%.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 88 88 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 4 Segmental information continued Overall profitability of the Groups underwriting activities is measured by reference to the combined operating ratio, being the net expense ratio net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance plus the net loss ratio.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the net expense ratio was 23.9% 2013: 23.8% giving a combined operating ratio of 91.9% 2013: 89.7%.
All Motor and Home underwriting income is generated in the UK.
Additional services The performance of additional services inclusive of underwritten additional insurance products that are reported within the Motor underwriting segment, is measured by reference to revenue per in-force policy IFP on a rolling 12 month basis.
Since the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, which came into effect during the year ended 31 December 2013, applicable legal panel membership fees are no longer received.
For comparability, Motor additional services income has been measured by reference to additional services revenue, excluding claims income, per Motor IFP.
At 31 December 2014, revenue per IFP under this metric was 62.0 2013: 64.3.
Statement of financial position The assets and liabilities of the Group are managed on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 74.
Reconciliation of segmental reporting to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The Groups segmental reporting presents amortisation of acquired intangible assets separately from other operating expenses.
The Groups share of joint venture profit is presented before tax and amortisation.
5 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Gross written premiums 517.8 535.8 Change in unearned premium provision 10.9 9.7 Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued 528.7 526.1 Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 35.3 40.7 Change in unearned premium provision 2.6 3.8 37.9 36.9 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 490.8 489.2 6 Investment income and instalment interest Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Interest income on financial investments at FVTPL 14.6 16.4 Interest income on cash deposits 0.2 0.4 Investment expenses 3.4 2.5 Fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments 2.3 1.4 Losses gains on financial investments recognised at fair value 1.6 1.7 Rental income 0.3 0.1 Total investment income 12.4 14.7 Instalment interest 30.5 30.8 Total investment income and instalment interest 42.9 45.5 Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and instalment interest.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 89 88 89 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 4 Segmental information continued 7 Employee benefit expense Year ended Year ended Overall profitability of the Groups underwriting activities is measured by reference to the combined operating ratio, being the net 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 expense ratio net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance plus the m m net loss ratio.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the net expense ratio was 23.9% 2013: 23.8% giving a combined operating Wages and salaries 45.7 43.4 ratio of 91.9% 2013: 89.7%.
Social security costs 4.5 4.4 All Motor and Home underwriting income is generated in the UK.
Pension costs defined contribution schemes 2.2 2.3 Additional services Equity-settled share-based payment expenses note 26 2.0 1.8 The performance of additional services inclusive of underwritten additional insurance products that are reported within the Motor underwriting segment, is measured by reference to revenue per in-force policy IFP on a rolling 12 month basis.
At 31 December Total employee benefit expense 54.4 51.9 2014, revenue per IFP was 52.5 2013: 56.0.
The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Since the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, which came into effect during the year ended 31 December 2013, applicable legal panel membership fees are no longer received.
For comparability, Motor additional Year ended Year ended services income has been measured by reference to additional services revenue, excluding claims income, per Motor IFP.
Operations 1,222 1,191 Statement of financial position Support 391 374 The assets and liabilities of the Group are managed on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable Total average number of employees 1,613 1,565 segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 74.
Reconciliation of segmental reporting to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 8 Directors remuneration The Groups segmental reporting presents amortisation of acquired intangible assets separately from other operating expenses.
Year ended Year ended The Groups share of joint venture profit is presented before tax and amortisation.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m 5 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Emoluments 2.4 2.4 Year ended Year ended Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Total Directors remuneration 2.5 2.5 Gross written premiums 517.8 535.8 Change in unearned premium provision 10.9 9.7 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued 528.7 526.1 Remuneration of the highest paid Director m m Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 35.3 40.7 Emoluments 0.8 0.8 Change in unearned premium provision 2.6 3.8 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 37.9 36.9 Total remuneration of the highest paid Director 0.8 0.8 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 490.8 489.2 Directors emoluments do not include the value of any share options granted to Directors.
Full disclosure of the awards is provided in 6 Investment income and instalment interest note 26.
No Directors exercised share options during the year 2012: nil and no shares were exercisable as at 31 December 2014 Year ended Year ended 2013: nil.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Retirement benefits were accruing to two Directors 2013: two Directors in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
Interest income on financial investments at FVTPL 14.6 16.4 9 Insurance and other operating expenses Interest income on cash deposits 0.2 0.4 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Investment expenses 3.4 2.5 m m Fair value gains losses on derivative financial instruments 2.3 1.4 Acquisition of insurance contracts 50.1 56.8 Losses gains on financial investments recognised at fair value 1.6 1.7 Change in DAC 0.1 2.2 Rental income 0.3 0.1 Administration 48.7 46.3 Total investment income 12.4 14.7 Insurance expenses 98.9 100.9 Instalment interest 30.5 30.8 Other operating expenses 24.1 22.8 Total investment income and instalment interest 42.9 45.5 During the year ended 31 December 2014, 3.8m of other operating expenses were incurred in relation to activities associated with Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and the acquisition of Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited see note 30. instalment interest.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 90 90 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 10 Profit after tax Profit after tax is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Employee benefit expense note 7 54.4 51.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.1 3.6 Operating lease payments 3.7 3.0 Government grant income 0.2 0.1 Auditors remuneration: Fees for audit services Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.0 0.0 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory fees 0.0 0.0 Corporate finance services 0.3 All other services 0.2 0.1 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.5 Total Group auditor remuneration 0.6 0.8 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Amortisation charged is recorded within insurance expenses and other operating expenses.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 91 90 91 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 10 Profit after tax 11 Investment in joint venture Profit after tax is stated after charging crediting : As at 31 December 2014, the Group owned 50% 2013: 50% of the ordinary share capital and had a 50% 2013: 50% interest in Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited Gocompare, a company incorporated in England and Wales.
As at 31 December 2014, the Year ended Year ended Group had committed, subject to Competition and Markets Authority clearance, to acquire the remaining 50% of the ordinary share 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m capital of Gocompare.
Clearance for the acquisition was granted subsequent to the year end see note 30.
Employee benefit expense note 7 54.4 51.9 The principal activity of Gocompare is a holding company of an internet based price comparison business.
The Group has Gocompare board representation in order to protect its interest, however the investment is held by the Group on an arms length basis.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.2 1.0 The following represents the assets, liabilities, revenue and results of the joint venture for the year ended 31 December 2014 after Amortisation of intangible assets 3.1 3.6 adjustments made to comply with the equity method of accounting: Operating lease payments 3.7 3.0 2014 2013 Government grant income 0.2 0.1 m m Non-current assets Auditors remuneration: including goodwill of 41.6m 2013: 41.6m and intangible assets of 0.7m 2013: 3.4m Fees for audit services recognised on application of the equity method by esure Group plc 43.3 47.0 Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Current assets 47.6 44.5 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.2 0.2 Total assets 90.9 91.5 Total audit fees 0.3 0.3 Current liabilities 11.3 11.3 Fees for non-audit services Non-current liabilities Audit-related assurance services 0.0 0.0 Total liabilities 11.3 11.3 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 Net assets 79.6 80.2 Tax advisory fees 0.0 0.0 esure Group plcs share of net assets 50% : 39.8 40.1 Corporate finance services 0.3 All other services 0.2 0.1 Revenue 113.3 110.2 Total non-audit fees 0.3 0.5 Expenses 88.5 84.6 Total Group auditor remuneration 0.6 0.8 Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on application of the equity method by esure Group plc 2.7 2.8 Adjustment to eliminate unrealised profits 0.1 0.2 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Profit before tax 22.2 23.0 Taxation expense 5.3 6.0 Profit after tax 16.9 17.0 esure Group plcs share of profit after tax 50% : 8.5 8.5 Memorandum items Cash and cash equivalents 36.2 35.0 Depreciation and software licence amortisation 1.1 0.6 Financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions Interest income and expenses 0.2 0.3 Other comprehensive income Gocompare is part of a VAT Group of which each member is jointly and severally liable.
The VAT Groups liability at 31 December 2014 was 1.1m 2013: 1.4m.
The VAT Group is external to esure Group plc and esure Group plc is not liable in respect of the VAT Group.
Impairment There were no indicators of impairment of the investment in the joint venture in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed on goodwill and intangible assets.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 92 92 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 11 Investment in joint venture continued Risks associated with the interest in the joint venture The two principal risks facing Gocompare are uncertainty regarding future regulatory changes and the highly competitive environment in which it operates, specifically the potential impact of continued rises in media costs impacting both profitability and customer volumes.
Dividends received from the joint venture The Group received dividends from Gocompare during 2014 of 8.8m 2013: 6.0m.
12 Finance costs Finance costs in each period represents the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Interest expense on perpetual subordinated loan notes see note 18 2.2 Interest expense on 10 year subordinated notes see note 18 0.3 Total finance costs 0.3 2.2 13 Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Current taxes on income for the reporting period 18.0 26.1 Tax credit relating to income for prior periods 0.1 0.7 Total current tax 17.9 25.4 Deferred tax charge credit for the reporting period 3.0 0.2 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Total deferred tax 3.0 0.2 Taxation expense 20.9 25.2 The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% payable by corporate entities in the UK on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
The deferred tax rates used are those that apply to the year the tax charge or credit is expected to materialise.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Profit before taxation 103.3 118.4 Taxation calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 22.2 27.5 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.8 0.4 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.1 0.7 Non-taxable income 2.0 2.0 Change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Taxation expense 20.9 25.2 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Tax recognised directly in equity m m Deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Total tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 93 92 93 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 11 Investment in joint venture continued 13 Taxation continued Risks associated with the interest in the joint venture Factors affecting the tax charge for future periods The two principal risks facing Gocompare are uncertainty regarding future regulatory changes and the highly competitive The Corporation Tax rate will be reduced to 20% from 1 April 2015.
As the change has been substantively enacted as at the balance environment in which it operates, specifically the potential impact of continued rises in media costs impacting both profitability sheet date, the change is reflected in the deferred tax liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as at and customer volumes.
Dividends received from the joint venture 14 Dividends The Group received dividends from Gocompare during 2014 of 8.8m 2013: 6.0m.
A 2014 interim dividend per share of 5.1p 21.3m was declared by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2014 2013: interim dividend per share of 2.5p, 10.4m.
Subsequent to the year end, a 2014 final dividend per share of 11.7p 48.8m was declared 12 Finance costs by the Board of Directors 2013: final dividend per share of 13.3p, 55.4m.
Finance costs in each period represents the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 15 Earnings per Share 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Basic m m Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted average Interest expense on perpetual subordinated loan notes see note 18 2.2 of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
Interest expense on 10 year subordinated notes see note 18 0.3 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group by the weighted average Total finance costs 0.3 2.2 of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
Share issues during the year are set out in note 25.
13 Taxation Year ended Year ended The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year, being 607,206 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 2013: 135,848, relates to the dilutive potential of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of share awards are set out m m in note 26.
Current taxes on income for the reporting period 18.0 26.1 Year ended 31 December 2013 Tax credit relating to income for prior periods 0.1 0.7 During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group undertook a number of capital transactions, in anticipation of Admission Total current tax 17.9 25.4 to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Deferred tax charge credit for the reporting period 3.0 0.2 On 21 February 2013, the share capital of the Group was reduced by the cancellation of 4,000,000,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each and 40m cash was paid to Tosca Penta Investments LP out of existing financial resources.
Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Total deferred tax 3.0 0.2 On 25 February 2013, each A, B and C Ordinary Share was subdivided into 12 shares of the same class.
Immediately prior to Admission, these 399,600,000 shares of 1 12 pence were converted into a single class of Ordinary Share.
Taxation expense 20.9 25.2 On Admission the Group repurchased from Tosca Penta Investments LP the remaining 4,485,014,000 Non-Voting Ordinary Shares The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% payable by corporate entities in the UK of 0.01 each at par amounting, in total, to 44.9m and the 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return Shares of 0.01 each.
on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
The deferred tax rates used are those that apply to the year the tax charge or The Group issued 17,241,380 new Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1 12 pence each on 27 March 2013 for a total credit is expected to materialise.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended Year ended as follows: 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Profit after taxation 82.4 93.2 m m Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 415.3 2,037.7 Profit before taxation 103.3 118.4 Unadjusted earnings per share basic pence per share 19.84 4.57 Taxation calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 22.2 27.5 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 415.9 2,037.9 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.8 0.4 Unadjusted earnings per share diluted pence per share 19.81 4.57 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.1 0.7 Non-taxable income 2.0 2.0 Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share: Year ended Year ended Change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Taxation expense 20.9 25.2 Profit after taxation m 82.4 93.2 Number of Ordinary Shares million in issue 416.8 416.8 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share pence per share 19.8 22.4 Tax recognised directly in equity m m Deferred tax charge credit recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated as profit after tax divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue as at the reporting date.
Total tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 94 94 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 16 Intangible assets Acquired Customer Software brands relationships Total m m m m Cost As at 31 December 2012 4.1 24.2 11.3 39.6 Additions in the year 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2013 4.7 24.2 11.3 40.2 Additions in the year 2.8 2.8 As at 31 December 2014 7.5 24.2 11.3 43.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 31 December 2012 2.2 10.6 10.2 23.0 Charge for the year 0.7 2.3 0.6 3.6 As at 31 December 2013 2.9 12.9 10.8 26.6 Charge for the year 0.6 2.2 0.3 3.1 As at 31 December 2014 3.5 15.1 11.1 29.7 Net book value As at 31 December 2013 1.8 11.3 0.5 13.6 As at 31 December 2014 4.0 9.1 0.2 13.3 Included in software as at 31 December 2014 is 2.9m relating to assets which are not yet available for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2013: nil.
As a result, no depreciation has been charged on these assets during the year.
Work on bringing these assets into a condition necessary for their intended use is expected to be completed by December 2015, after which the assets are expected to have a useful economic life of five years.
The acquired brands intangible asset represents the Sheilas Wheels and esure brands.
The Sheilas Wheels and esure brands were acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The customer relationships intangible asset represents customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
Impairment testing on intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may be impaired.
Software There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Brands Sheilas Wheels and esure There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Customer relationships There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 95 94 95 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 16 Intangible assets 17 Property, plant and equipment Acquired Customer Fixtures, Software brands relationships Total Land and fittings and m m m m buildings equipment Total m m m Cost Cost As at 31 December 2012 4.1 24.2 11.3 39.6 As at 31 December 2012 11.4 5.4 16.8 Additions in the year 0.6 0.6 Additions in the year 1.9 1.9 As at 31 December 2013 4.7 24.2 11.3 40.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.2 0.2 Additions in the year 2.8 2.8 Disposals in the year As at 31 December 2014 7.5 24.2 11.3 43.0 As at 31 December 2013 11.6 7.3 18.9 Additions in the year 13.2 13.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Revaluation of land and buildings 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2012 2.2 10.6 10.2 23.0 Disposals in the year Charge for the year 0.7 2.3 0.6 3.6 As at 31 December 2014 11.6 20.5 32.1 As at 31 December 2013 2.9 12.9 10.8 26.6 Charge for the year 0.6 2.2 0.3 3.1 Accumulated depreciation As at 31 December 2014 3.5 15.1 11.1 29.7 As at 31 December 2012 3.4 3.4 Charge for the year 0.1 0.9 1.0 Net book value Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2013 1.8 11.3 0.5 13.6 As at 31 December 2013 4.3 4.3 As at 31 December 2014 4.0 9.1 0.2 13.3 Charge for the year 0.1 1.1 1.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 Included in software as at 31 December 2014 is 2.9m relating to assets which are not yet available for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2013: nil.
Work on As at 31 December 2014 5.4 5.4 bringing these assets into a condition necessary for their intended use is expected to be completed by December 2015, after which the assets are expected to have a useful economic life of five years.
Carrying amount The acquired brands intangible asset represents the Sheilas Wheels and esure brands.
The Sheilas Wheels and esure brands were As at 31 December 2013 11.6 3.0 14.6 acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
As at 31 December 2014 11.6 15.1 26.7 The customer relationships intangible asset represents customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition Included in fixtures and fittings as at 31 December 2014 is 12.5m relating to computer hardware assets that are not yet available of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. for use in the manner intended by management 31 December 2013: nil.
As a result, no depreciation has been charged on these Impairment testing on intangible assets assets during the year.
Work on bringing these assets into a condition necessary for their intended use is expected to be completed The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may by December 2015, after which the assets are expected to have a useful economic life of five years.
Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent Software relevant experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
More frequent revaluations are performed by management to assess that the carrying amount does not materially differ from its fair value.
Brands Sheilas Wheels and esure This assessment, on the basis of existing use value and in accordance with UK Valuation Standard 1.3, is the estimated amount for There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length Customer relationships transaction, after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion, assuming that There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
the buyer is granted vacant possession of all parts of the property required by the business and disregarding potential alternative uses and any other characteristics of the property that would cause its market value to differ from that needed to replace the remaining service potential at least cost.
The valuation assessment adopts market-based evidence and is in line with guidance from the International Valuation Standards Committee and the requirements of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Independent valuations were performed as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
If land and buildings were not stated at their revalued amounts, and were instead held under the cost model, land and buildings would have a carrying value at 31 December 2014 of 12.0m 31 December 2013: 12.1m.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 96 96 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 18 Financial assets and liabilities 18.1 Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Financial investments designated at FVTPL: Shares and other variableyield securities and units in unit trusts 40.5 27.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 544.2 612.0 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 99.8 Financial investments held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 1.3 2.1 Financial investments at FVTPL 809.7 741.2 AFS financial assets: Shares in unquoted equity investments 0.3 Loans and receivables: Insurance and other receivables note 20 152.9 153.4 Cash and cash equivalents note 22 25.1 27.6 Total financial assets 988.0 922.2 Included in deposits with credit institutions as at 31 December 2014 is 122.1m relating to the net proceeds of the 10 year Subordinated Notes issued in relation to the acquisition of Gocompare see notes 18.2 and 30.
Financial investments are held to support the Groups insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those activities at any time.
On that basis, the investments are deemed to be recoverable within 12 months.
Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling, the Group has purchased over-the-counter forward currency contracts.
The Group also uses government bond futures as a mechanism to adjust investment portfolio duration.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is set out in note 18.3a iii.
18.2 Financial liabilities As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Financial liabilities held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.1 Other financial liabilities: Borrowings see below 122.4 Insurance and other payables note 23 10.8 14.1 Total financial liabilities 133.6 14.2 As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Borrowings 10 year Subordinated notes 122.4 Perpetual Subordinated loan notes Total borrowings 122.4 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 97 96 97 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 18 Financial assets and liabilities 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.1 Financial assets Subordinated Notes As at As at 125m 10 year Subordinated Notes were issued by esure Group plc on 19 December 2014 at the rate of 6.75% per annum, 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 with payments made biannually.
The carrying amount of the 10 year Subordinated Notes m m approximates their fair value.
Financial investments designated at FVTPL: The nominal 125m Subordinated Notes have a maturity date of 19 December 2024.
The Notes are direct, unsecured and Shares and other variableyield securities and units in unit trusts 40.5 27.3 subordinated obligations of the Group, ranking pari passu and without preference amongst themselves, and will, in the event of the winding-up of the Group or in the event of an administrator of the Group being appointed and giving notice that it intends to Debt securities and other fixed income securities 544.2 612.0 declare and distribute a dividend, be subordinated to the claims of all senior creditors and policy holders of the Group.
Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 99.8 Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes On 11 February 2010, esure Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, created and issued 50,000,000 unsecured Financial investments held for trading: perpetual subordinated loan notes of 1 each the Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes.
The interest rate was 18.9% per annum, Derivative financial instruments 1.3 2.1 paid annually.
Financial investments at FVTPL 809.7 741.2 The Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes were listed on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
On 28 March 2013 the Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes were repaid by the Group following Admission of esure Group plc to the AFS financial assets: London Stock Exchange.
Shares in unquoted equity investments 0.3 18.3 Financial risk management objectives The Group is exposed to a range of financial risks through its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets and policyholder liabilities.
In particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations Loans and receivables: arising from insurance policies as they fall due.
The most important components of this financial risk are market risk including Insurance and other receivables note 20 152.9 153.4 interest rate risk, equity price risk and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Cash and cash equivalents note 22 25.1 27.6 a Market risk Total financial assets 988.0 922.2 These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
The market risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest Included in deposits with credit institutions as at 31 December 2014 is 122.1m relating to the net proceeds of the 10 year rate risk and equity price risk.
Subordinated Notes issued in relation to the acquisition of Gocompare see notes 18.2 and 30.
Financial investments are held to The Group manages market risk by virtue of its risk management framework, incorporating the Groups Risk Appetite and setting support the Groups insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those an appropriate investment strategy.
The majority of investments held are listed and traded on the UK and other recognised stock exchanges.
The Group has a defined Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss investment strategy and market risk policy which sets limits on the Groups exposure by setting, where applicable, duration, issuer To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other and concentration limits for each asset class.
than Sterling, the Group has purchased over-the-counter forward currency contracts.
The Groups Board appoints members to the Groups Investment Committee who are responsible for recommending future investment strategy, guidelines and policies, in line with the Board approved Risk Appetite, for the Boards approval.
Ultimately, the 18.2 Financial liabilities Board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, defining the risk appetite and appointing investment managers.
The dayAs at As at to-day management of investments is delegated to the investment fund managers and monitored by the Investment Committee.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Investment Committee meetings, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, are held at least quarterly.
At these meetings, Non-Executive Financial liabilities held for trading: Directors, Executive Directors and senior managers meet to discuss investment performance, composition and strategy across the Groups portfolio.
More frequent meetings are held by the Executive Directors and senior managers to monitor investment Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.1 performance, and to determine whether an Investment Committee should be called outside the normal cycle of meetings.
i Interest rate risk Other financial liabilities: Interest rate risk arises primarily from investments in fixed interest securities.
The Investment Committee balances the portfolio Borrowings see below 122.4 of investments to manage the exposure to interest rate risk.
In addition to the extent that claims inflation is correlated to interest Insurance and other payables note 23 10.8 14.1 rates, liabilities to policyholders are exposed to interest rate risk.
Total financial liabilities 133.6 14.2 The Group monitors interest rate risk on a monthly basis by calculating the mean duration of key elements of the investment portfolio and of the liabilities to policyholders under insurance contracts.
The mean duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in current interest rates.
The mean duration of the technical liabilities is determined by means of As at As at projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Investment Committee give due consideration to the duration and profile of liabilities to avoid any significant mismatch in the asset and liability profiles.
In order to preserve capital and to reduce the risk of an investment loss due to interest rate movements, it is Borrowings acceptable for the duration of the asset portfolio to be shorter but not longer than the average duration of the liabilities.
The Groups 10 year Subordinated notes 122.4 investment managers also have the ability to use Government bond futures as a mechanism to ensure portfolio duration remains Perpetual Subordinated loan notes within strict limits.
Total borrowings 122.4 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 98 98 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial investments bearing interest rate risk will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 5.5m 2013: 7.7m.
For a decrease of 25 basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would increase by 1.4m 2013: 1.9m.
ii Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of its holdings in investments with prices quoted on a stock exchange and classified as financial assets at FVTPL.
Exposures to individual companies and to equity shares in aggregate are monitored in order to ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory limits for solvency purposes.
If equity market indices had increased decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 4.0m 2013: 2.7m.
iii Currency risk The Group has exposure to currency risk in respect of certain investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At the reporting date the most significant currencies to which the Group is exposed are Euros and US Dollars USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate currency risk by the use of forward contracts and other derivatives, with a maturity of less than three months from the reporting date, matching the estimated foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities denominated in the same currency.
Strict agreements are in place with investment managers to ensure all non-Sterling debt securities and other fixed income securities are hedged to between 99.5% and 100.5% of the carrying value.
One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is not required to hedge out all currency risk.
The maximum permitted value of shares and other variable yield securities which may have unhedged currency risk exposure, per the investment managers mandate, is 11.2m 2012: 8.7m.
At the reporting date the Group has direct exposure to both USD and Swiss francs CHF through shares with a value of 2.3m.
If the Sterling rates with either of these foreign currencies had strengthened weakened by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 0.2m 2013: 0.0m.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: Credit instruments held within the investment portfolio Other amounts due from investment counterparties Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid Amounts due from policyholders Subrogation and salvage recoveries Amounts due from claims suppliers Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk.
This does not, however, discharge the Groups liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
The creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any contract.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
An analysis of the credit grade of the Groups 10 largest exposures to reinsurers by Standard & Poors S&P and A. M. Best ratings is produced and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The minimum credit rating that the Group requires for participation in its reinsurance programmes is Standard & Poors Aor the A. M. Best equivalent.
The Group manages the levels of investment counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties and geographical segments.
Such risks are subject to regular review by the Investment Committee.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 99 98 99 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of the financial investments Investments bearing credit risk, and cash and cash equivalents, are summarised below, together with an analysis by credit rating bearing interest rate risk will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 as at the reporting date: basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 5.5m 2013: 7.7m.
For a decrease of 25 As at As at basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would increase by 1.4m 2013: 1.9m.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m ii Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of its holdings in investments with prices quoted on a stock exchange Derivative financial instruments 1.3 2.1 and classified as financial assets at FVTPL.
Exposures to individual companies and to equity shares in aggregate are monitored in Debt securities 544.2 612.0 order to ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory limits for solvency purposes.
Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 99.8 If equity market indices had increased decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 4.0m Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 27.6 2013: 2.7m.
Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 794.3 741.5 iii Currency risk The Group has exposure to currency risk in respect of certain investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At the AAA 350.1 285.3 reporting date the most significant currencies to which the Group is exposed are Euros and US Dollars USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate currency risk by the use of forward contracts and other derivatives, with a maturity of less than three months from the AA 143.7 164.2 reporting date, matching the estimated foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities denominated in the same currency.
A 186.7 177.9 Strict agreements are in place with investment managers to ensure all non-Sterling debt securities and other fixed income securities BBB 54.5 62.6 are hedged to between 99.5% and 100.5% of the carrying value.
Below BBB or not rated 59.3 51.5 One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is not required to hedge out all currency risk.
The Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 794.3 741.5 maximum permitted value of shares and other variable yield securities which may have unhedged currency risk exposure, per the investment managers mandate, is 11.2m 2012: 8.7m.
At the reporting date the Group has direct exposure to both USD and Shares and other variable yield securities and units in unit trusts do not bear credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are A rated.
Swiss francs CHF through shares with a value of 2.3m.
The analysis by credit rating illustrates an improvement in credit quality over the period under review, with a higher proportion of assets rated AAA in 2014 compared to 2013.
This is due to the net proceeds from the Groups issuance of 125.0m of b Credit risk Subordinated Notes being entirely invested in a AAA rated liquidity fund.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Insurance receivables due from policyholders and other debtors are not subject to credit rating and are not included in the table above.
Owing to the high number of individual policyholders through which the Group has minimal individual exposure, the overall Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: risk of default to the Group is considered to be insignificant.
The Group regularly reviews the ageing and individual characteristics of Credit instruments held within the investment portfolio the counterparties of insurance receivables and other debtors to manage credit risk and to ensure that impairments are made where necessary.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year, and no significant financial assets are past due but not impaired at the Other amounts due from investment counterparties reporting date.
Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities c Liquidity risk Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The primary liquidity risk of the Group is the Amounts due from policyholders obligation to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is minimal due to the liquid nature of the Groups investments Subrogation and salvage recoveries and the nature of the business, which is such that material liabilities are driven by claims costs, which have a significant lead time from notification to payment.
Amounts due from claims suppliers In order to mitigate liquidity risk, the maturity of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk.
If a using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Committee give due reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
consideration to the maturity and profile of liabilities to ensure that the maturity of assets is equal to or shorter than the maturity The creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any of liabilities.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 100 100 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The table below analyses the contractual maturity of the Groups financial assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts and financial liabilities.
Salvage and subrogation assets, reinsurers share of outstanding claims and claims outstanding are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.
Social security and other taxation liabilities are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the dates at which they are expected to be settled.
The analysis of non derivative financial liabilities and assets is based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables represent undiscounted cash flows relating to financial assets and liabilities and include payments of both principal and interest: Less than Between More than Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets At 31 December 2014 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 1.3 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 173.2 308.5 98.7 580.4 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 223.7 223.7 Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 25.1 25.1 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 73.8 3.1 98.7 175.6 175.6 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 497.1 311.6 197.4 1,006.1 969.9 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 24.2 120.2 50.0 194.4 194.4 Total 521.3 431.8 247.4 1,200.5 1,164.3 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2014 Borrowings 8.5 33.8 167.2 209.5 122.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 0.4 Insurance and other payables and social security and 21.1 21.1 other taxes 21.1 Financial and tax liabilities 30.0 33.8 167.2 231.0 143.9 Claims outstanding 221.5 299.0 76.8 597.3 597.3 Financial and insurance liabilities 251.5 332.8 244.0 828.3 741.2 esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 101 100 101 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The table below analyses the contractual maturity of the Groups financial assets excluding shares and other variable-yield Less than Between More than Carrying securities and units in unit trusts and financial liabilities.
Salvage and subrogation assets, reinsurers share of outstanding claims 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total value and claims outstanding are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are based on the expected dates on which the m m m m m claims will be settled.
Social security and other taxation liabilities are presented at their carrying amount and their maturities are Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets based on the dates at which they are expected to be settled.
At 31 December 2013 The analysis of non derivative financial liabilities and assets is based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 2.1 contractual maturity date.
Debt securities and other fixed income securities 140.8 402.6 103.1 646.5 612.0 The amounts disclosed in the tables represent undiscounted cash flows relating to financial assets and liabilities and include Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 99.8 99.8 payments of both principal and interest: Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 27.6 27.6 Less than Between More than Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total value Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation m m m m m assets 171.9 3.0 174.9 174.9 Financial assets and salvage and subrogation assets Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 442.2 405.6 103.1 950.9 916.4 At 31 December 2014 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 25.7 124.9 57.9 208.5 208.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 1.3 Total 467.9 530.5 161.0 1,159.4 1,124.9 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 173.2 308.5 98.7 580.4 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 223.7 223.7 Financial and insurance liabilities Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 25.1 25.1 At 31 December 2013 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 73.8 3.1 98.7 175.6 175.6 Borrowings Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 claims 497.1 311.6 197.4 1,006.1 969.9 Insurance and other payables and social security and Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 24.2 120.2 50.0 194.4 194.4 other taxes 22.9 22.9 22.9 Total 521.3 431.8 247.4 1,200.5 1,164.3 Financial and tax liabilities 23.0 23.0 23.0 Claims outstanding 217.3 342.1 99.7 659.1 659.1 Financial and insurance liabilities Financial and insurance liabilities 240.3 342.1 99.7 682.1 682.1 At 31 December 2014 d Capital management Borrowings 8.5 33.8 167.2 209.5 122.4 The Group maintains a capital structure consistent with the Groups risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements of its Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 0.4 business.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are: Insurance and other payables and social security and To match the profile of its assets and liabilities, taking account of the risks inherent in the business 21.1 21.1 other taxes 21.1 To satisfy the requirements of its policyholders and regulators Financial and tax liabilities 30.0 33.8 167.2 231.0 143.9 To maintain financial strength to support business growth Claims outstanding 221.5 299.0 76.8 597.3 597.3 To retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets Financial and insurance liabilities 251.5 332.8 244.0 828.3 741.2 The Group manages as capital all items that are eligible to be treated as capital for regulatory purposes.
This includes equity, allowing for regulatory adjustments, Subordinated Notes and a mark to model based valuation of the Groups interest in Gocompare.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 102 102 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued Insurance Groups Directive The Group has a strong capital position and has an Insurance Groups Directive IGD coverage ratio of 377% 2013: 308%.
As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Statutory solvency capital Ordinary shareholders equity 282.2 274.2 Regulatory adjustments 50.2 61.4 Final dividend 48.8 55.4 Total tier 1 capital 283.6 280.2 Eligible tier 2 capital 20.2 Total regulatory capital resources 303.8 280.2 Insurance Groups Directive IGD IGD required capital 80.6 90.9 IGD excess solvency 223.2 189.3 IGD coverage ratio 377% 308% The Groups Subordinated Notes meet the criteria of a lower tier two capital instrument.
Only 20.2m of the Subordinated Notes qualified as capital under the IGD as the amount of qualifying lower tier two debt is restricted to a maximum of 25% of the lesser of either the Groups available solvency margin or required solvency capital.
Economic capital In addition to Group capital requirements established under the IGD, the solo insurance company, esure Insurance Limited, is also subject to Individual Capital Guidance ICG set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The guidance is set by the PRA on a periodic basis following the submission of a risk-based Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
The ICA, and thus ICG, are typically greater than the IGD and it is these that the Group use to determine its economic capital requirements.
e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial instruments reported at fair value and revalued properties have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in pricing the Groups level 2 assets include: Quoted prices for similar i. e. not identical assets in active markets Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation For forward foreign exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value The Groups policy, should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is traded, is to transfer the asset between levels effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
As a result of the application of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, from 1 January 2013, the Group revisited the fair value hierarchy and now classifies all corporate bonds as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
As a result of the change, 14.0m was transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 in the year ended 31 December 2013. esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 103 102 103 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued Insurance Groups Directive 7.5m of debt securities have been transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 in the year ended 31 December 2014.
2.5m of the assets The Group has a strong capital position and has an Insurance Groups Directive IGD coverage ratio of 377% 2013: 308%.
have been transferred as a result of regular pricing data being sourced and evidenced during the year from quoted prices in active markets where there is now sufficient frequency and volume of trades to recognise these assets at Level 1 and 5.0m has been As at As at transferred as a result of the reclassification of a financial asset that is Government backed 2013: 3.0m of debt securities 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 in the year as a result of insufficient trade frequency.
Statutory solvency capital Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 Unobservable inputs have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing Ordinary shareholders equity 282.2 274.2 for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the Regulatory adjustments 50.2 61.4 inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect assumptions about the inputs that market participants would Final dividend 48.8 55.4 use in pricing the asset.
Total tier 1 capital 283.6 280.2 If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group Eligible tier 2 capital 20.2 held Level 3 AFS financial assets of 0.3m as at 31 December 2014, representing an investment in an unquoted equity investment which has been valued using a discounted cash flow valuation model.
There were no Level 3 assets, other than land and buildings, Total regulatory capital resources 303.8 280.2 as at 31 December 2013.
Under IFRS 13, land and buildings with a carrying value of 11.6m 2013: 11.6m are classified as Level 3 assets.
Owner-occupied Insurance Groups Directive IGD properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant IGD required capital 80.6 90.9 experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the UK IGD excess solvency 223.2 189.3 Red Book.
The valuers opinion of fair value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
No sensitivity analysis has been performed due to the nature of the valuation.
IGD coverage ratio 377% 308% The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: The Groups Subordinated Notes meet the criteria of a lower tier two capital instrument.
Only 20.2m of the Subordinated Notes Total fair qualified as capital under the IGD as the amount of qualifying lower tier two debt is restricted to a maximum of 25% of the lesser Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value of either the Groups available solvency margin or required solvency capital.
At 31 December 2014 m m m m Economic capital Financial assets In addition to Group capital requirements established under the IGD, the solo insurance company, esure Insurance Limited, is also Derivative financial instruments 1.3 1.3 subject to Individual Capital Guidance ICG set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The guidance is set by the PRA on Equity securities 40.5 40.5 a periodic basis following the submission of a risk-based Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
Debt securities 113.6 430.6 544.2 Deposits with credit institutions 223.7 223.7 e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial instruments reported at fair value and revalued properties have been Total financial assets reported at fair value 377.8 431.9 809.7 categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: AFS financial assets: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Unquoted equity securities 0.3 0.3 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in Land and buildings 11.6 11.6 which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Financial liabilities Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 indirectly derived from prices Level 2.
Total financial liabilities at fair value 0.4 0.4 Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified Total fair as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value pricing the Groups level 2 assets include: At 31 December 2013 m m m m Quoted prices for similar i. e. not identical assets in active markets Financial assets Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly Equity securities 27.3 27.3 Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation Debt securities 130.7 481.3 612.0 Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 99.8 For forward foreign exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value Total financial assets reported at fair value 257.8 483.4 741.2 The Groups policy, should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is Land and buildings 11.6 11.6 traded, is to transfer the asset between levels effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
As a result of the application of Financial liabilities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, from 1 January 2013, the Group revisited the fair value hierarchy and now classifies all corporate Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 bonds as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
Total financial liabilities at fair value 0.1 0.1 As a result of the change, 14.0m was transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 in the year ended 31 December 2013. esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 104 104 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities 19.1 Insurance risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events.
These would include significant weather related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting strategy and defining the Risk Appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses from single events.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional insurance products.
The book consists of a large number of individual policies spread across the whole geographic area which helps to minimise concentration risk especially in terms of weather-related risks.
As well as pricing, the Group has additional controls in place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to mitigate application fraud risk.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
Claims management risk The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made on a case by case basis to reflect the Groups future liabilities.
These include: Well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures to enhance efficiency and effectiveness The Group manages its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offer an extensive range of services directly to not at fault third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees Comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications All claims teams operating from the UK and more specialised teams handle large liability and property damage claims in a dedicated technical unit Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Groups appetite for individual claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so, the Group protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently, the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its motor and home underwriting activities.
The purpose of these programmes is to provide cover for both individual large losses, for Motor and Home, and accumulation losses arising from natural and other catastrophe events for Home.
Motor reinsurance treaties are in place covering all years in which the Group has underwritten Motor policies.
In 2014, the Group renewed its Motor reinsurance programme with a deductible of 1.0m in 2013 the deductible was 0.5m.
The Groups reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Groups business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
See note 18.3 b for more detail.
Reserving risk Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, the Group also provides data to external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analyses the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
The ultimate costs and expenses of the claims for which these reserves are held are subject to a number of material uncertainties.
As time passes between the reporting of a claim and the final settlement of the claim, circumstances can change that may require established reserves to be adjusted either upwards or downwards.
Factors such as changes in the legal environment, results of litigation, propensity of personal injury claims, changes in medical and care costs, and costs of vehicle and home repairs can all substantially impact overall costs and expenses of claims, and cause a material divergence from the bases and assumptions on which the reserves were calculated.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 105 104 105 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.1 Insurance risk 19.1 Insurance risk continued Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events.
These would Claims subject to periodic payment orders PPOs are an area of uncertainty relating to the claims provision at 31 December 2014. include significant weather related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting For known PPOs and claims which have been identified as potential PPO awards, indexed cash flow projections are carried out in strategy and defining the Risk Appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss order to estimate an ultimate cost on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The cash flow projections are undertaken on a reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses discounted basis.
The total net claims provision recognised for PPOs and potential PPOs in the consolidated statement of financial position represents less than 5% of net claims outstanding at 31 December 2014.
In the context of the Groups approach to the from single events.
mitigation and management of underwriting risk, its reinsurance programme including its approach to mitigating counterparty Underwriting and pricing risk credit risk and the Groups prudent approach to reserving for potential PPOs, the risk of an adverse development of the Groups The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional reserves for PPO claims is not considered to be significant.
As well as pricing, the Group has additional controls in In addition, the Ministry of Justice has been reviewing the discount rate used in the calculation of damage awards in bodily injury place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to and fatal claims for some time.
At the date these financial statements were approved the discount rate used in these calculations mitigate application fraud risk.
remained at 2.5% and individual case reserves have been established by applying this discount rate.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing In the context of the Groups reinsurance programme and its approach to the mitigation of reinsurance counterparty credit risk, adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
a reduction in the discount rate is unlikely to result in a material deterioration of the Groups financial performance.
Were an adjustment to be made to total reserves to reflect an assumed reduction of one percentage point, the impact of this allowance Claims management risk would be increase the net claims provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position by less than 2.0m at The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made 31 December 2014. on a case by case basis to reflect the Groups future liabilities.
The Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported These include: IBNR to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
Apart from that part of the provisions relating to PPOs, claims provisions are not Well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures discounted.
The Directors remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an to enhance efficiency and effectiveness appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
The Group manages its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offer an extensive range of services directly to 19.2 Analysis of recognised amounts not at fault third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications m m All claims teams operating from the UK and more specialised teams handle large liability and property damage claims in a Gross dedicated technical unit Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims Reinsurance handling expenses 597.3 659.1 The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Groups appetite for individual Unearned premiums 254.4 265.3 claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so, the Group Total insurance liabilities, gross 851.7 924.4 protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently, the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its motor and home underwriting Recoverable from reinsurers activities.
Motor reinsurance treaties are in place covering all Claims outstanding 194.4 208.5 years in which the Group has underwritten Motor policies.
In 2014, the Group renewed its Motor reinsurance programme with a Unearned premiums 14.9 17.5 deductible of 1.0m in 2013 the deductible was 0.5m.
Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 209.3 226.0 The Groups reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Groups business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost Net and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
handling expenses 402.9 450.6 Reserving risk Unearned premiums 239.5 247.8 Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test Total insurance liabilities, net 642.4 698.4 and forecast claims provisions.
Due within one year gross 476.0 482.6 Apart from historical analyses the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes Due in more than one year gross 375.7 441.8 in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 106 106 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.2 Analysis of recognised amounts continued As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Reinsurance Assets m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 209.3 226.0 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 209.3 226.0 Recoverable within one year 39.2 43.2 Recoverable in more than one year 170.1 182.8 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in insurance and other receivables note 20.
No reinsurance assets have been impaired.
Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 402.9 450.6 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 22.7 21.5 Net claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 380.2 429.1 19.3 Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders equity after tax as at 31 December 2014: Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Net loss ratio 63% 70% 68% 86% 96% 80% 62% 69% 73% 86% Impact of 1% variation m 2.2 2.1 2.5 3.3 4.0 3.5 3.6 3.8 3.8 3.9 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
19.4 Claims development tables The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
Tables a and b illustrate how the Groups estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past ten years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated statement of financial position.
esure Group plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
The estimated claims disclosed in the tables prior to the date of acquisition are those of esure Holdings Limited.
Table c expresses the development of net incurred claims by reference to the loss ratio for each accident year over the past ten years.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 107 106 107 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.2 Analysis of recognised amounts continued 19.4 Claims development tables continued a Insurance claims gross ultimate claims m As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Reinsurance Assets m m Ultimate gross earned Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 209.3 226.0 premium 288.8 276.7 335.9 447.1 544.3 479.1 488.7 511.7 526.1 528.7 427.1 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 209.3 226.0 Estimate of ultimate gross claims costs: At end of reporting year 222.0 225.8 289.2 399.1 540.2 475.3 392.7 442.0 439.5 456.1 Recoverable within one year 39.2 43.2 One year later 212.8 220.5 268.8 398.2 535.3 416.8 355.7 399.8 386.9 Recoverable in more than one year 170.1 182.8 Two years later 207.5 219.7 242.0 407.5 536.6 399.0 331.5 369.2 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in Three years later 194.0 207.9 233.0 399.9 549.8 380.6 309.7 insurance and other receivables note 20.
Four years later 187.4 205.5 232.9 382.9 534.0 371.8 Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
Five years later 186.6 203.4 229.4 381.3 534.1 As at As at Six years later 186.0 215.4 228.0 379.7 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Seven years later 188.2 209.0 227.8 Net claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims Eight years later 186.8 208.5 handling expenses 402.9 450.6 Nine years later 186.7 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 22.7 21.5 Current estimate of Net claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 380.2 429.1 cumulative claims 186.7 208.5 227.8 379.7 534.1 371.8 309.7 369.2 386.9 456.1 3,430.5 Cumulative payments to date 178.8 190.4 217.6 362.6 496.8 362.0 267.2 292.4 281.4 227.8 2,877.0 19.3 Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions Liability recognised in the The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders equity after tax as at consolidated statement 31 December 2014: of financial position 553.5 Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Reserve in respect of Net loss ratio 63% 70% 68% 86% 96% 80% 62% 69% 73% 86% prior periods 9.2 Impact of 1% variation m 2.2 2.1 2.5 3.3 4.0 3.5 3.6 3.8 3.8 3.9 Provision for claims handling expenses 11.9 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
Salvage and subrogation 22.7 19.4 Claims development tables Total reserve included The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
in the consolidated Tables a and b illustrate how the Groups estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past statement of ten years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated statement of financial position.
esure Group financial position 597.3 plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 108 108 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.4 Claims development tables continued b Insurance claims net ultimate claims m Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Ultimate net earned premium 276.5 263.9 321.4 424.1 514.9 452.1 459.7 480.2 489.2 490.8 4,172.8 Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of reporting year 203.1 208.5 270.9 374.5 510.3 446.8 360.1 401.0 404.7 423.8 One year later 198.6 204.3 254.9 373.8 495.0 392.5 317.3 356.7 357.9 Two years later 194.6 203.1 227.0 372.0 495.0 374.6 296.4 331.9 Three years later 185.1 193.7 220.0 371.7 495.1 363.9 285.0 Four years later 179.5 188.2 223.5 367.6 494.5 360.9 Five years later 176.3 187.1 219.8 366.3 492.7 Six years later 175.6 187.0 218.3 364.7 Seven years later 175.6 184.7 217.5 Eight years later 175.4 184.8 Nine years later 175.4 Current estimate of cumulative claims 175.4 184.8 217.5 364.7 492.7 360.9 285.0 331.9 357.9 423.8 3,194.6 Cumulative payments to date 175.3 182.8 212.6 358.4 481.5 352.6 264.6 289.3 281.4 227.8 2,826.3 Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 368.3 Reserve in respect of prior periods 0.0 Provision for claims handling expenses 11.9 Salvage and subrogation 22.7 Total net reserve included in the consolidated statement of financial position 402.9 c Insurance claims net loss ratio development Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Estimate of ultimate loss ratio: At end of reporting year 73% 79% 84% 88% 99% 99% 78% 84% 83% 86% One year later 72% 77% 79% 88% 96% 87% 69% 74% 73% Two years later 70% 77% 71% 88% 96% 83% 65% 69% Three years later 67% 73% 69% 88% 96% 81% 62% Four years later 65% 71% 70% 87% 96% 80% Five years later 64% 71% 68% 86% 96% Six years later 64% 71% 68% 86% Seven years later 64% 70% 68% Eight years later 63% 70% Nine years later 63% esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 109 108 109 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.4 Claims development tables continued 19.5 Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets b Insurance claims net ultimate claims m a Claims reported in the financial statements and claims handling expenses m. The movements in claims reported, including claims handling expenses, both gross and net of reinsurance RI, are shown below: Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Ultimate net earned premium 276.5 263.9 321.4 424.1 514.9 452.1 459.7 480.2 489.2 490.8 4,172.8 2014 2013 Estimate of ultimate claims Gross RI Net Gross RI Net costs: At 1 January 625.3 208.5 416.8 660.4 219.7 440.7 At end of reporting year 203.1 208.5 270.9 374.5 510.3 446.8 360.1 401.0 404.7 423.8 Cash paid for claims settled in year 402.4 20.1 382.3 361.3 15.1 346.2 One year later 198.6 204.3 254.9 373.8 495.0 392.5 317.3 356.7 357.9 Change arising from: Two years later 194.6 203.1 227.0 372.0 495.0 374.6 296.4 331.9 Current year claims 456.1 32.3 423.8 439.5 34.8 404.7 Three years later 185.1 193.7 220.0 371.7 495.1 363.9 285.0 Prior year claims 116.3 26.3 90.0 113.3 30.9 82.4 Four years later 179.5 188.2 223.5 367.6 494.5 360.9 Total at end of year 562.7 194.4 368.3 625.3 208.5 416.8 Five years later 176.3 187.1 219.8 366.3 492.7 Provision for claims handling expenses 11.9 11.9 12.3 12.3 Six years later 175.6 187.0 218.3 364.7 Salvage and subrogation 22.7 22.7 21.5 21.5 Seven years later 175.6 184.7 217.5 Total reserve per balance sheet 597.3 194.4 402.9 659.1 208.5 450.6 Eight years later 175.4 184.8 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: Nine years later 175.4 Year ended 31 Dec 2014 Year ended 31 Dec 2013 Current estimate of cumulative claims 175.4 184.8 217.5 364.7 492.7 360.9 285.0 331.9 357.9 423.8 3,194.6 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net Cumulative payments to date 175.3 182.8 212.6 358.4 481.5 352.6 264.6 289.3 281.4 227.8 2,826.3 Claims incurred 339.9 6.0 333.9 326.2 3.9 322.3 Liability recognised in the Claims handling expenses 18.5 18.5 15.4 15.4 consolidated statement Claims incurred and claims handling of financial position 368.3 expenses 358.4 6.0 352.4 341.6 3.9 337.7 Reserve in respect of prior periods 0.0 During 2014, the Group continued to experience favourable development of prior accident year reserves resulting in a reduction in both gross claims outstanding and claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers as at 31 December 2014.
Provision for claims handling expenses 11.9 b Provisions for unearned premiums m The movements for the year, both gross and net of reinsurance, are summarised below: Salvage and subrogation 22.7 Total net reserve 2014 2013 included in the Gross RI Net Gross RI Net consolidated statement Unearned premium provision of financial position 402.9 At beginning of the year 265.3 17.5 247.8 255.6 13.7 241.9 c Insurance claims net loss ratio development Premiums written in the year 517.8 35.3 482.5 535.8 40.7 495.1 Accident year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Premiums earned in the year 528.7 37.9 490.8 526.1 36.9 489.2 Estimate of ultimate loss ratio: At end of year 254.4 14.9 239.5 265.3 17.5 247.8 At end of reporting year 73% 79% 84% 88% 99% 99% 78% 84% 83% 86% One year later 72% 77% 79% 88% 96% 87% 69% 74% 73% Two years later 70% 77% 71% 88% 96% 83% 65% 69% Three years later 67% 73% 69% 88% 96% 81% 62% Four years later 65% 71% 70% 87% 96% 80% Five years later 64% 71% 68% 86% 96% Six years later 64% 71% 68% 86% Seven years later 64% 70% 68% Eight years later 63% 70% Nine years later 63% esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 110 110 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 20 Insurance and other receivables As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Insurance receivables 147.6 150.8 Prepayments and accrued income 4.5 5.7 Other debtors 5.3 2.6 Salvage and subrogation assets 22.7 21.5 Total insurance and other receivables 180.1 180.6 Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 18, which includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
All insurance receivables and other receivables are recoverable within one year, aside from 3.1m of salvage and subrogation assets which are recoverable in more than one year 2013: 3.0m.
21 Deferred acquisition costs Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Deferred Acquisition Costs At 1 January 28.1 25.9 Movement during the period 0.1 2.2 At 31 December 28.0 28.1 Deferred acquisition costs are recoverable within one year.
22 Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 27.6 Total 25.1 27.6 23 Insurance and other payables As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Insurance payables 10.8 14.1 Accrued expenses 31.9 25.8 Social security and other taxes 10.3 8.8 Deferred income 11.9 12.5 Total insurance and other payables 64.9 61.2 Insurance and other payables include financial liabilities of 10.8m 2013: 14.1m classified as other financial liabilities.
Insurance payables and accrued expenses principally comprise amounts outstanding for suppliers and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for invoiced trade purchases is 12.3 days 2013: 7.3 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of insurance and other payables approximates their fair value.
All insurance and other payables are expected to be settled within one year aside from Government grants.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 111 110 111 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 20 Insurance and other receivables 23 Insurance and other payables continued As at As at Included within deferred income is 0.3m in Government grants 2013: 0.5m.
This is recognised as income over the period 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Scottish Executive Grants have m m been received by the Group based on two factors: expenditure on fixed assets and the creation of new jobs.
In order for the Group Insurance receivables 147.6 150.8 to avoid repayment of the grants received, the new jobs created in order to meet the grant conditions must remain in existence for a period of at least five years.
Prepayments and accrued income 4.5 5.7 Other debtors 5.3 2.6 24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Salvage and subrogation assets 22.7 21.5 The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior periods.
Total insurance and other receivables 180.1 180.6 The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 18, which As at As at includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
Deferred tax assets 0.5 3.8 All insurance receivables and other receivables are recoverable within one year, aside from 3.1m of salvage and subrogation assets which are recoverable in more than one year 2013: 3.0m.
Deferred tax liabilities 3.8 4.1 Net deferred tax liabilities 3.3 0.3 21 Deferred acquisition costs Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset are as follows: The net movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m Deferred Acquisition Costs m m At 1 January 28.1 25.9 At 1 January 0.3 0.5 Movement during the period 0.1 2.2 Income statement credit note 13 3.0 0.2 At 31 December 28.0 28.1 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Deferred acquisition costs are recoverable within one year.
At 31 December 3.3 0.3 22 Cash and cash equivalents As at As at The deferred tax rate used is 20.0% 2013: 21.5%.
31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances m m within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Cash at bank and in hand 25.1 27.6 Accelerated Deferred Claims Total 25.1 27.6 capital acquisition handling Lease Share-based allowances costs reserve incentive payments Total m m m m m m 23 Insurance and other payables Deferred tax assets As at As at Brought forward as at 1 January 2013 1.0 2.8 0.1 0.1 4.0 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Charged credited to the income statement 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Insurance payables 10.8 14.1 At 31 December 2013 0.7 2.7 0.1 0.3 3.8 Accrued expenses 31.9 25.8 Brought forward as at 1 January 2014 0.7 2.7 0.1 0.3 3.8 Social security and other taxes 10.3 8.8 Charged credited to the income statement 0.6 2.6 0.1 0.0 3.3 Deferred income 11.9 12.5 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 0.0 Total insurance and other payables 64.9 61.2 At 31 December 2014 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.5 Insurance and other payables include financial liabilities of 10.8m 2013: 14.1m classified as other financial liabilities.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 112 112 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.6m at 31 December 2014 for which there is insufficient likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Claims Intangible equalisation Onerous assets reserve lease Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m Brought forward as at 1 January 2013 3.4 1.1 4.5 Charged credited to the income statement 0.9 0.5 0.0 0.4 At 31 December 2013 2.5 1.6 0.0 4.1 Brought forward as at 1 January 2014 2.5 1.6 0.0 4.1 Charged credited to the income statement 0.7 0.4 0.3 At 31 December 2014 1.8 2.0 0.0 3.8 25 Share capital and other reserves Capital Ordinary Share redemption Other Shares premium reserve reserves Total m m m m m At 1 January 2013 85.2 0.0 85.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 50.0 50.0 Transaction costs of issue 6.0 6.0 Share repurchase 44.9 44.9 Capital reduction 40.0 40.0 As at 31 December 2013 0.3 44.0 44.9 89.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 Fair value movements on AFS assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2014 0.3 44.0 44.9 0.0 89.2 a As at 31 December 2014 During the year ended 31 December 2014, 1,417 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.0m.
The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2014 was 416,842,797 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each.
The shares have full voting and dividend rights.
No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust held 1,396,193 Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2014 and the Trustees waived their rights to dividend payments.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, 0.0m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements on an AFS financial asset 31 December 2013: nil.
The other reserves as at 31 December 2014 relate to the available-for-sale reserve in respect of this financial asset.
b As at 31 December 2013 The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2013 was 416,841,380 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each: no shares were held in Treasury: and the esure Employee Benefit Trust held 1,646,828 Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2013.
Changes during the year ended 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012, esure Group plc formerly named esure Group Holdings Limited had authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of 9,990,000 A Ordinary Shares of 1p each, 8,325,000 B Ordinary Shares of 1p each, 14,985,000 C Ordinary Shares of 1p each, 8,485,014,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 1p each and 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return Shares of 1p each.
On 21 February 2013, the share capital of esure Group plc was reduced by the cancellation of 4,000,000,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each and 40m in cash was paid in consideration by the esure Group plc to Tosca Penta Investments LP out of existing financial resources, the holder of the Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares so cancelled.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 113 112 113 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued 25 Share capital and other reserves continued There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.6m at 31 December 2014 for which there is insufficient On 25 February 2013, each A Ordinary Share, B Ordinary Share and C Ordinary Share was subdivided into 12 shares of the same class each having a nominal value of 1 12 pence.
Immediately prior to the Admission of esure Group plc to the London Stock likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Exchange, the resulting A Ordinary Shares, B Ordinary Shares and C Ordinary Shares, in total amounting to 399,600,000 shares of Claims 1 12 pence each, were converted into a single class of Ordinary Share in accordance with esure Group plcs articles of association Intangible equalisation Onerous assets reserve lease Total such that, following conversion, there were in aggregate 399,600,000 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each.
Deferred tax liabilities m m m m Pursuant to a share purchase agreement dated 25 February 2013, esure Group plc agreed on Admission to repurchase the Brought forward as at 1 January 2013 3.4 1.1 4.5 remaining 4,485,014,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each at par amounting, in total, to 44.9m and the 1,000 Charged credited to the income statement 0.9 0.5 0.0 0.4 Redeemable Priority Return Shares of 0.01 each for an amount equal to the Priority Return as defined and determined in accordance with the Companys previous articles of association out of existing financial resources.
The Non-Voting Old Ordinary At 31 December 2013 2.5 1.6 0.0 4.1 Shares and Redeemable Priority Return Shares repurchased were then cancelled.
A capital redemption reserve was created for the Brought forward as at 1 January 2014 2.5 1.6 0.0 4.1 44.9m share repurchase.
The amount payable on Admission to Tosca Penta Investments LP in respect of the Priority Return was Charged credited to the income statement 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.6m.
As a result of the contractual obligations to deliver cash to satisfy the Priority Return on Admission, the Priority Return Shares were reclassified as a financial liability.
The fair value at the date of the reclassification being 0.6m was debited directly At 31 December 2014 1.8 2.0 0.0 3.8 to retained earnings.
esure Group plc also issued 17,241,380 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1 12 pence each on 27 March 2013 for 50.0m, with associated transaction costs of 6.0m debited directly to share premium.
25 Share capital and other reserves Capital 26 Share-based payments Ordinary Share redemption Other The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
An award will not be granted under the executive Shares premium reserve reserves Total m m m m m plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 5% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue at that time.
Similarly, an award will not be granted under the employee plans if it would cause the At 1 January 2013 85.2 0.0 85.2 number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 10% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue Issue of share capital 0.0 50.0 50.0 at that time.
Holders of these awards other than the three year and five year SAYE schemes will receive dividend equivalents in Transaction costs of issue 6.0 6.0 respect of the dividends that would have been paid between grant date and vesting date for Ordinary Shares which vest under their awards, calculated on a basis and paid in a manner to be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the awards vest.
Share repurchase 44.9 44.9 Details of the share-based compensation plans and their financial effect are set out below.
Capital reduction 40.0 40.0 a Performance Share Plan As at 31 December 2013 0.3 44.0 44.9 89.2 The Performance Share Plan PSP is a discretionary share plan for the Groups Executive and senior management.
Awards have Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 been made under the PSP plan as follows: Fair value movements on AFS assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 As at 31 December 2014 0.3 44.0 44.9 0.0 89.2 Darren Ogden 189,594 160,344 a As at 31 December 2014 During the year ended 31 December 2014, 1,417 Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence were issued by the Group for 0.0m.
The Stuart Vann 338,926 286,637 authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2014 was 416,842,797 Ordinary Senior management 1,211,351 263,101 Shares of 1 12 pence each.
Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a three year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group and No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust held 1,396,193 Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2014 and the achieving predefined performance conditions associated with the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return Trustees waived their rights to dividend payments.
Two-thirds of each award will be based on EPS performance and one-third on TSR performance with the two measures During the year ended 31 December 2014, 0.0m was credited to other comprehensive income in respect of fair value movements applying independently to different parts of each award.
on an AFS financial asset 31 December 2013: nil.
The other reserves as at 31 December 2014 relate to the available-for-sale EPS performance reserve in respect of this financial asset.
The EPS performance measure involves a comparison of the reported pro forma EPS figure for the year ended prior to the granting b As at 31 December 2013 of the award, and the EPS figure reported in the Groups audited consolidated financial statements for the year ending three years The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2013 was 416,841,380 later e. g. for the awards granted in the year ended 31 December 2014, a comparison of the pro forma EPS reported for the year Ordinary Shares of 1 12 pence each: no shares were held in Treasury: and the esure Employee Benefit Trust held 1,646,828 ended 31 December 2013 and the EPS figure reported in the Groups audited consolidated financial statements for the year ending Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2013.
For the portion of the 2014 Executive Senior Management PSP awards subject to the EPS measure: Changes during the year ended 31 December 2013 i 0 25 per cent will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2016 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012, esure Group plc formerly named esure Group Holdings Limited had authorised, allotted, called up and calculated on the basis described above by 10 per cent: fully paid share capital of 9,990,000 A Ordinary Shares of 1p each, 8,325,000 B Ordinary Shares of 1p each, 14,985,000 C Ordinary ii 25 50 per cent will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2016 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2013 Shares of 1p each, 8,485,014,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 1p each and 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return Shares calculated on the basis described above by 15 per cent: of 1p each.
iii 100 per cent will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2016 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2013 On 21 February 2013, the share capital of esure Group plc was reduced by the cancellation of 4,000,000,000 Non-Voting Old calculated on the basis described above by 39 per cent: and Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each and 40m in cash was paid in consideration by the esure Group plc to Tosca Penta Investments LP out of existing financial resources, the holder of the Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares so cancelled.
iv if EPS for the year ending 2016 falls between targets, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
Refer to the Groups 2013 annual report for the performance conditions associated with the 2013 awards.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 114 114 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 26 Share-based payments continued TSR performance TSR performance is measured, in the case of the 2014 awards, by comparing the Groups TSR for the three year period from 31 December 2013 to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and the Company over the same period.
For the 2013 awards, the comparison is made from the date of Admission to 31 December 2015.
For the portion of the PSP awards subject to the TSR measure: i 25 per cent will vest if the Group achieves median TSR performance against this comparator group: ii 100 per cent will vest if the Groups TSR performance is at the upper quartile or above: and iii if TSR performance is between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
In addition, the PSP awards are subject to an additional term, which will allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce the level of vesting of each award if it considers that the vesting level is not appropriate having regard to the growth in profitability over the performance period.
The PSP awards will vest at the later of three years service and satisfaction of the performance conditions as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The following table provides summarised information regarding all PSP awards: 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards 16 April 2014 date Grant dates employee joined 27 March 2013 Number granted 1,739,871 710,082 Number outstanding at 1 January 2014 Nil 710,082 Forfeited lapsed during the year 17,447 Nil Vested during the period Nil Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2014 1,722,424 710,082 Contractual life 3 years 3 years Valuation of PSP awards As one-third of the awards are subject to a share-price related TSR performance condition, the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The remaining two-thirds of the awards are not subject to a share-price related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards Share price at grant 2.53 2.96 Exercise price nil nil Volatility % p. a.
21.0% 23.0% Dividend yield % p. a. nil nil Risk-free rate % 1.05% 0.27% Expected life 3 years 3 years The inputs were adjusted as appropriate for those awards granted to employees later upon joining the Group.
The total estimated fair value of the 2014 PSP options at the dates of grant was 1.6m 2013 PSP awards: 1.8m.
2014 senior management awards in addition to the PSP In addition to the PSP awards disclosed above, a new senior management hire was granted 171,621 shares without performance conditions with an estimated fair value of 2.22 at the date of grant.
46% of these awards will vest on 29 May 2015, 37% will vest on 31 May 2016 and the remainder will vest on 31 May 2017 dependent upon continued employment by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee made the awards to compensate for remuneration that was in place with a previous employer.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 115 114 115 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 26 Share-based payments continued 26 Share-based payments continued TSR performance b Free share awards TSR performance is measured, in the case of the 2014 awards, by comparing the Groups TSR for the three year period from Upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered employees a free share award granting shares to each eligible 31 December 2013 to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and the Company over the employee free of charge.
These awards, comprised of Long Service awards and One-off awards, have been will be satisfied same period.
For the portion of the using shares held by the Groups employee benefit trust.
PSP awards subject to the TSR measure: Long Service awards These awards were made to eligible employees who did not already own shares in the Group and had been employed by the i 25 per cent will vest if the Group achieves median TSR performance against this comparator group: Group for more than two years at the point of Admission.
The award levels were determined by length of service.
ii 100 per cent will vest if the Groups TSR performance is at the upper quartile or above: and The details of the award are set out below: iii if TSR performance is between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
Type of arrangement Free share award In addition, the PSP awards are subject to an additional term, which will allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce the level Date of grant 27 March 2013 of vesting of each award if it considers that the vesting level is not appropriate having regard to the growth in profitability over the performance period.
The PSP awards will vest at the later of three years service and satisfaction of the performance conditions Number granted 1,381,391 as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The following table provides summarised information regarding all PSP awards: Number outstanding at 1 January 2014 1,323,544 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards Forfeited lapsed during the year 87,850 16 April 2014 date Vested during the period 12,787 for good leavers at Groups discretion Grant dates employee joined 27 March 2013 Number outstanding at 31 December 2014 1,222,907 Number granted 1,739,871 710,082 Contractual life 3 years Number outstanding at 1 January 2014 Nil 710,082 Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances Forfeited lapsed during the year 17,447 Nil The awards outstanding at 31 December 2014 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the Vested during the period Nil Nil employee remains in employment with the Group for three years and shall not be subject to clawback.
Number outstanding at 31 December 2014 1,722,424 710,082 The estimated fair value of the Long Service awards at grant date was 4.1m.
The estimated fair value of each award was based Contractual life 3 years 3 years upon the share price of Ordinary Shares at grant date of 2.96.
Valuation of PSP awards One-off awards As one-third of the awards are subject to a share-price related TSR performance condition, the fair value of the awards was These awards were made to a number of senior employees of the Group: estimated using a Stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The details of the award are set out below: The remaining two-thirds of the awards are not subject to a share-price related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 March 2013 The inputs into the models were: Number granted outstanding at 1 January 2014 246,845 2014 PSP awards 2013 PSP awards Forfeited during the period Nil Share price at grant 2.53 2.96 Vested exercised during the period 246,845 Exercise price nil nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2014 Nil Volatility % p. a.
21.0% 23.0% Contractual life 1 year Dividend yield % p. a. nil nil Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances Risk-free rate % 1.05% 0.27% Expected life 3 years 3 years The One-off awards vested and were exercised during the period.
The share price at the date of exercise was 2.75.
The inputs were adjusted as appropriate for those awards granted to employees later upon joining the Group.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 116 116 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 26 Share-based payments continued c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes The Group has a three year SAYE scheme and a five year SAYE scheme.
esure employees are offered the opportunity to save between 5 and 500 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five years time at an exercise price at a 20% discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The details of these awards are set out below: 2014 SAYE scheme 2013 SAYE scheme Date of grant 3 September 2014 6 September 2013 Number outstanding at 1 January 2014 Nil 1,082,331 shares under the three year scheme 173,168 shares under the five year scheme Number granted 527,607 shares under three year scheme 1,083,748 shares under the three year scheme 67,144 shares under the five year scheme 176,260 shares under the five year scheme Forfeited lapsed during the year 14,621 under the three year scheme 176,605 under the three year scheme nil under the five year scheme 3,410 under the five year scheme Vested exercised during the year Nil 1,417 for good leaver at Groups discretion Number outstanding at 31 December 2014 512,986 shares under the three year scheme 905,726 shares under the three year scheme 67,144 shares under the five year scheme 169,767 shares under the five year scheme Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models used to value the 2014 awards were: Scheme 3 year SAYE 5 year SAYE Share price at grant 2.60 2.60 Exercise price 2.08 2.08 Volatility % p. a.
4.27% 4.27% Risk-free rate % 1.35% 1.83% Expected life years 3.4 5.4 The estimated fair value of the 2014 SAYE options at the date of grant was 0.3m.
d Financial effect of share-based payments made The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 2.0m 2013: 1.8m.
All share-based payment transactions were accounted for as equity-settled.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 117 116 117 Notes to the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 26 Share-based payments continued 27 Commitments c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes a Pension capital commitments The Group has a three year SAYE scheme and a five year SAYE scheme.
esure employees are offered the opportunity to save The Group contributes to a Group Personal Pension defined contribution scheme available to all staff of which 1,377 employees between 5 and 500 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five years time at an exercise price at a 20% participated in the scheme at 31 December 2014 2013: 1,307. discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to 2.2m The details of these awards are set out below: 2013: 2.3m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or end of the financial year.
b Capital commitments 2014 SAYE scheme 2013 SAYE scheme The Group has entered into the following contracts for assets which have not been provided for at the balance sheet date: Date of grant 3 September 2014 6 September 2013 As at As at Number outstanding at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 1 January 2014 Nil 1,082,331 shares under the three year scheme m m 173,168 shares under the five year scheme Fixed asset acquisitions contracted for but not provided in these consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.2 Number granted 527,607 shares under three year scheme 1,083,748 shares under the three year scheme c Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessee 67,144 shares under the five year scheme 176,260 shares under the five year scheme The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Forfeited lapsed during the year 14,621 under the three year scheme 176,605 under the three year scheme As at As at nil under the five year scheme 3,410 under the five year scheme 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Vested exercised during the year Nil 1,417 for good leaver at Groups discretion Not later than 1 year 3.5 3.5 Number outstanding at Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 13.2 14.5 31 December 2014 512,986 shares under the three year scheme 905,726 shares under the three year scheme Later than 5 years 24.0 3.9 67,144 shares under the five year scheme 169,767 shares under the five year scheme Total minimum lease payments payable 40.7 21.9 Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models used to value the d Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessor 2014 awards were: The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Scheme 3 year SAYE 5 year SAYE As at As at 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Share price at grant 2.60 2.60 m m Exercise price 2.08 2.08 Not later than 1 year 0.1 0.1 Volatility % p. a.
21.6% 22.2% Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.5 0.1 Dividend yield % p. a.
4.27% 4.27% Later than 5 years Risk-free rate % 1.35% 1.83% Total minimum lease payments receivable 0.6 0.2 Expected life years 3.4 5.4 28 Group subsidiary companies The estimated fair value of the 2014 SAYE options at the date of grant was 0.3m.
esure Group plc has the following principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014: d Financial effect of share-based payments made Class of Held directly The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 2.0m 2013: 1.8m.
All share-based Country of incorporation shares held Principal activity or indirectly Percentage held payment transactions were accounted for as equity-settled.
esure Insurance Limited England and Wales Ordinary General insurance Indirect 100% esure Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary Administration and management Indirect 100% esure Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% esure Property Limited England and Wales Ordinary Property investment Indirect 100% esure Finance Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Direct 100% esure Property Non-trading Indirect 100% Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary esure S. L. Spain Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure broker limited England and Wales Ordinary Insurance intermediary Indirect 100% All of the subsidiaries above are included in the consolidation of esure Group plc.
esure Property Management Limited and esure S. L. are dormant and are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to prepare annual financial statements.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 es esure Group Annual R ure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014 118 118 Notes to the financial statements continued Notes to the financial statements continued for for the the y yea ear ended 31 D r ended 31 Deecember cember 20 2014 14 29 Related party transactions The following transactions took place with related parties during the year: a Commissions and fees receivable for introducing insurance business: The Group receives commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided to Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 December 2014 was 0.0m 2013: 0.1m.
The amount receivable at 31 December 2014 is nil 2013: nil.
These transactions arise in the normal course of business through fixed fees, and are based on arms length arrangements.
b Commissions and fees payable for introducing insurance business: The Group pays commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided by Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 December 2014 was 4.8m 2013: 6.4m.
The amount payable at 31 December 2014 is 0.3m 2013: 0.2m.
These transactions arise in the normal course of obtaining insurance business through brokerages, and are based on arms length arrangements.
c Transactions with shareholders The following transactions took place with shareholders and entities under common control: One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in a restaurant which has been used by the Group for corporate events and entertaining purposes.
One of the Directors has a beneficial part ownership interest in a company which leased office space from the Group.
Fees were paid in respect of services provided by employees of Penta Capital LLP in their capacity as Non-Executive Directors of the Group prior to IPO in 2013.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 m m Value of income expense for the year: Lessee of office space 0.2 Restaurant 0.1 0.1 Penta Capital LLP 0.0 Total income expense for the year 0.1 0.1 Amount receivable payable at the year end: Lessee of office space 0.1 Restaurant 0.0 0.0 Penta Capital LLP Total amount receivable payable at the year end 0.1 0.0 d Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel are considered to be the Directors.
Please refer to note 8 for details of the Directors remuneration, excluding PSP share awards.
See note 26 for more detail on these awards.
One of the Directors is also a member of the 2013 three year SAYE scheme and saves 250 a month under the scheme.
30 Subsequent events As at 31 December 2014, the Group had committed to acquire the outstanding 50% of the ordinary share capital of Gocompare for a cash consideration of 95m.
The consideration is subject to an adjustment mechanism, such that the cash paid will increase or decrease should the reported consolidated net assets of Gocompare at the acquisition date be more or less than their forecast level, as set under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement.
The acquisition was subject to Competition and Markets Authority clearance.
Subsequent to 31 December 2014, clearance was granted for the acquisition and the acquisition is expected to complete on 31 March 2015.
Disclosure regarding the acquisition will be provided in the 2015 financial statements.
esure Group Annual R esure Group Annual Report 2014 eport 2014
