INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity and then re-issuing the Ordinary Shares would enhance NAV per China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant Taylors share.
Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on 18 July 2014 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 13.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers Statements for the year ended 31 March 2014. of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended 31 March approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the 2014 of 1.15 pence per Ordinary Share be paid to issued share capital of the Company as at 5 June 2014 and shareholders who appear on the register as at close of so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and business on 11 July 2014. make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury Shares, fractional 3.
To re-elect Mr John Owen as a Director.
entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other 4.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 5.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to 6.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted 7.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Wells as a Director.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13 set out above, the 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Companys Remuneration Policy set out on pages 33 and 34 Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as for the year ended 31 March 2014. defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said resolution 13 and or to sell 10.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy, the full text of Ordinary Shares held by the Company as Treasury Shares for which is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such the year ended 31 March 2014 as set out on pages 33 and 34. allotment, or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: 11.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant meeting at which Financial Statements are laid before the equity securities where the equity securities attributable Company.
respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be 12.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held remuneration.
by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the which will be proposed, in the case of Resolution 13 as an Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to ordinary resolution and in the case of Resolutions 14, 15 and 16 fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or as special resolutions.
practical problems in, or under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock Resolutions 13 and 14 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to exchange in any territory or otherwise : allot a limited number of the currently unissued Ordinary Shares or sell any Ordinary Shares which the Company elects to hold in b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue Treasury for cash without first offering such shares to existing of equity securities or sale of Treasury Shares up to an ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 approximately set by the Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share Company in issue on 5 June 2014.
The Directors will only issue capital of the Company as at 5 June 2014 : and new Ordinary Shares, or dispose of Ordinary Shares held in Treasury, under this authority in order to take advantage of c in either case, by the condition that allotments of equity opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it securities or sales of Treasury Shares may only be made is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the Ordinary Shares held in Treasury would only be re-issued at NAV Net Asset Value per share.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 63 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next conferring certain powers on the Board expressly, and 3 to Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 amend the articles to include wider powers in future to facilitate months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the payment of dividends electronically or by other means and to earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to specify the default payment method.
Further details can be found make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, on page 24. and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this 16.
THAT with effect from the passing of this resolution, the draft resolution had not expired.
regulations produced to the meeting and, for the purpose of identification, initialled by the chairman, be adopted as the Resolution 15 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares on 5 June Company.
2014 for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury Shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares are held By Order of the Board in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance FIL Investments International with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for Secretary cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will 5 June 2014 be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value per share, thereby resulting in an increased Net Asset Value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 85,646,036: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 1 penny: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Resolution 16 is a special resolution which, if approved, will adopt new Articles of Association of the Company which update the Companys existing Articles of Association.
The new Articles of Association reflect recent changes to tax, regulation and company law which affect investment trusts and the Company, in particular 1 removing the prohibition on a distribution of realised capital profits, 2 incorporating provisions to ensure compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, including Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 64 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notes: 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
a result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise the address on the form to arrive not later than 12 noon on 16 July have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency 2014.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in Financial Conduct Authority.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by the determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Capita entered on the register of members by 5.30pm on 16 July 2014.
If the Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the entered on the register of members at 5.30pm on the day two days meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the 10.
As at 5 June 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the publication vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the 571,354,480 Ordinary Shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
total number of voting rights in the Company as at 5 June 2014 was 571,354,480.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 16 July 2014.
For corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST the same shares.
Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored that they are willing to receive any communications, including members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting meeting.
service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Company may be required to publish on its website a statement Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are Registrars no later than 12 noon on 16 July 2014. to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General since the previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be Statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 5.30pm on Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company 16 July 2014. has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be 15.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right www.
co. uk its or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 65 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report AIC CHINESE STOCK EXCHANGES The Association of Investment Companies.
The Company is a The Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and member of the AIC.
any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time.
AIF COLLATERAL Alternative Investment Fund.
AIFM CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Board has agreed, in A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between principle, that FIL Investment Services UK Limited will act as the the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the Companys AIFM.
parties exchange the difference between the opening price and the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial AIFMD instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU is underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in a European Union Directive and came into force on 22 July 2013 its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company to and has a transitional implementation date of 22 July 2014. gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason AUDITOR that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by Grant Thornton UK LLP or such other auditor, as the Company may selling short position.
If the Company holds long positions, appoint from time to time.
dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company holds short positions, dividends are paid and interest is received.
BENCHMARK INDEX The Benchmark Index is MSCI China Index total return net in CUSTODIAN UK sterling and is a composite of China B, H, Red Chip and An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, P Chip share classes.
arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys custodian is CAPITA ASSET SERVICES JPMorgan Chase bank.
DEBT CENKOS SECURITIES Bank borrowings and long Contracts For Difference.
DEPOSITARY CHINA A SHARES Entity that will oversee the custody, cash arrangements and other Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
The Board has agreed, in renminbi.
Foreign investors were unable to participate in the principle, that J. P. Morgan Europe Limited will act as the China A Shares market until the introduction of the QFII program Companys Depositary.
in 2002 which provided a legal framework for licensed QFIIs to invest in China A shares on the Chinese Stock exchanges and DERIVATIVES certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an foreign investors.
underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or market CHINA B SHARES benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories of derivatives Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai are Contracts For Difference warrants, futures, and options.
Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
The shares were originally intended to be available only to DISCOUNT foreign individuals and institutional investors, however, since If the share price of the Company is lower than the Net Asset February 2001 they have been available to domestic individual Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be investors who trade through legal foreign currency accounts.
It is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
CHINA H SHARES Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the EQUITY LINKED NOTES OR ELN Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
They are available to non-Chinese Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may Stock Exchange.
be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a single equity.
CHINESE RENMINBI Currency of the PRC.
FAIR VALUE The carrying value in the Balance Sheet which represents the amount that would be received or paid on disposal of the financial asset or liability.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 66 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report FIL MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries.
Together, represents the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement.
FIL LIMITED The ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies.
MANAGEMENT FEE Incorporated in Bermuda.
The annual management fee was 1.2% of the Net Asset Value of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2014.
It reduced to FIDELITY 1.0% of the Net Asset Value on 1 April 2014.
MSCI CHINA INDEX FORWARD CURRENCY CONTRACT The Benchmark Index of the investment performance of the An agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset Company, UK sterling equivalent.
at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
MSCI CHINA MID CAP INDEX Designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment of FUTURE OR FUTURE CONTRACT the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of the An agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a universe.
MSCI CHINA SMALL CAP INDEX GEARING Designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment Gross asset exposure in excess of net assets.
The Index represents approximately 14% of the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity GROSS ASSETS universe.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV GROSS ASSET EXPOSURE Net Asset Value is sometimes described as shareholders funds The value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, and is the total value of the Companys assets less the total value whether through direct or indirect investment including the of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to express the economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the Net Asset Value on a per share basis.
derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV PER ORDINARY SHARE HEDGING The NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as shareholders funds A hedge position demonstrates risk reduction qualities by divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in OPTIONS the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from a An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation short which is a position not opened with the objective of to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price on or before reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and are used to gain exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis.
purposes of calculating gross asset exposure, the exposure attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the P CHIPS exposure of the corresponding long positions.
Short positions are Companies controlled by mainland individuals, with the added to long positions in arriving at the gross asset exposure.
establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
PChips are incorporated outside of the Peoples Republic of INDEX LINKED SECURITIES China PRC and traded on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes with a majority of revenues or assets derived from Mainland in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices.
INVESTMENT MANAGER OR MANAGER PERFORMANCE FEE FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
The Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance INVESTMENT MANAGERS OR MANAGERS which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index Together, represents the Investment Manager and the Unlisted total return net in UK sterling after making good any Investment Manager.
cumulative under-performance, including the 2% hurdle, carried forward from previous years, subject to a maximum performance MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% of the arithmetic mean of The agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of each month during the year.
the Companys investments dated 25 February 2010.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 67 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary to the Annual Report PRC t Capital Return reflects the on capital, excluding any capital The Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong return: and and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC.
t Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS returns.
Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these SECRETARIAL AGREEMENT shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to The agreement between the Secretary and Company regarding the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual the provision of company secretarial and administrative services general meeting, the Board seek shareholder approval to dated 25 February 2010. disapply pre-emption rights provision, up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
PORTFOLIO The Companys portfolio which may be made up of equities, SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS index linked securities, equity linked notes and other debt Also described as Net Asset Value, shareholders funds represent securities, cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its currency exchange transactions and other interests including liabilities as shown in the balance sheet.
derivative instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For Difference.
SHORT STOCK EXPOSURE The position of the Company when it has sold a security or PREMIUM derivative that it does not own but is now committed to eventually If the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset purchase in order to satisfy its obligation to sell.
It is a strategy Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of derivatives price.
the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
TREASURY SHARES PROSPECTUS Ordinary Shares of the Company that have been repurchased by The Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011. the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are QFII excluded from the Net Asset Value calculation.
The Investment Manager is a QFII a Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor and as such has been granted a QFII licence UNLISTED MANAGER by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which FIL Investments International.
permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota UNLISTED MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign The agreement between FIL Investments International and the Exchange of the PRC SAFE.
Company regarding the management of the Companys unlisted investments.
RED CHIPS Companies incorporated outside China but which are based in UNLISTED SECURITIES mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to These are securities not listed on a regulated stock exchange.
observe the filing and reporting requirements of, the Hong Kong They are stated at best estimate of fair value, based on Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of recognised valuation techniques which may take account of recent their business interests located in mainland China and many are arms length transactions in the investments.
owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities.
UNLISTED SECURITIES A derivative security that gives the Company a right to purchase REGISTRAR securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price within Entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
WARRANTS RETURN A derivative security that gives the Company the right to purchase The return generated in a given period from investments: securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price and within a certain time frame.
t Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 68 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC The information on the following pages is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and that is best for you.
As Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is a inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
the Share Plan application form.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share way to get more from your investment, because you will not have purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, there to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your advisor.
Between 6 April and 30 June 2014, the maximum investment in a BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS stocks and shares ISA is 11,880.
The full amount may be invested Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to in a Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares receive information rights.
You should contact your registered ISA.
The minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been a regular savings plan.
With effect from 1 July 2014, ISAs will be nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive reformed into a simpler product, the New ISA NISA, with information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 equal limits for cash, and stocks and shares.
The overall are required to direct all communications to the registered holder subscription limit will be 15,000. of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, or to the Company direct.
Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA may vary.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, there will INVESTING ONLINE be no initial charge.
Those investing through an intermediary will Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to invest through an pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any initial fee or commission ISA, Junior ISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are where applicable agreed with their intermediary.
Fidelity pays all available via www.
You can also invest online stamp duty from the initial charge.
There are no other charges for in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares via the share the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an annual management trading facility available via www.
charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee where The Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
which is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA Limited, a leading London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity China Stock Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any Special Situations PLC without losing any tax benefits.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct known as an ISA transfer and it can be a great way to give your or in an ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment will be shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be If an order is placed when the market is closed, it will be invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth processed as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online during this time.
share dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal membership for shares held direct.
This means that Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
You will also not have to everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend that your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
your old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings the share dealing service.
which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your on line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity fee of 5.10 per month regardless of how many different shares China Special Situations PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax your dividends and make further investments without having to rules may change in the future.
You will also be able to set up a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice a year.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 69 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA are offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and the symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 70
