GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those they have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in regulations.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and included on the Companys pages of the Managers website fair view of the state of aairs of the Company and of the profit www.
Visitors to the website or loss for the period.
need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are dier from legislation in their jurisdictions.
required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial t TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ UIFN Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of consistently: accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: t NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF BOE and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair prudent: review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the t TUBUF XIFUIFS BQQMJDBCMF '34 IBWF CFFO GPMMPXFE TVCKFDU UP principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
We confirm that we any material departures disclosed and explained in the consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as Financial Statements: and a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys t QSFQBSF UIF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT PO UIF HPJOH DPODFSO CBTJT performance, business model and strategy.
unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
Approved by the Board on 5 June 2014 and signed on its behalf.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for John Owen safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Chairman reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 36
