INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Warning to Shareholders SHARE FRAUD WARNING Contents Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly Investment Objective and Performance 1 based abroad.
Financial Summary 2 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
Chairmans Statement 3 The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
Portfolio Managers Review 7 PROTECT YOURSELF Strategic Report 9 If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Ten Largest Investments 14 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the FCA Register at www.
uk register to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of Board of Directors 22 date.
Search the FCAs website of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Corporate Governance Statement 27 If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service Report of the Audit Committee 32 or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Directors Remuneration Report 34 REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, Statement of Directors Responsibilities 37 where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Independent Auditors Report 38 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on Income Statement 41 0300 123 2040 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 42 Balance Sheet 43 Cash Flow Statement 44 Notes to the Financial Statements 45 Financial Calendar 60 Notice of Meeting 61 Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC 65 Shareholder Information 67 Glossary of Terms 69 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure 71 Warning to Shareholders 73 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 73 INFORMATION FOR FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY SHAREHOLDERS Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report For the year ended 31 December 2014 Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certi ed paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identi es products which contain wood from well-managed forests certi ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from PROOF 12 genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this 1 6 March 2015 document, have been reduced to net zero through a veri ed, carbon o setting project.
