INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms AIF DERIVATIVES Alternative Investment Fund.
Financial instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For Difference whose value is derived from the value of an underlying AIFM asset.
The Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys DISCOUNT AIFM.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at AIFMD a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the net The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is a European asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more Union Directive that came into force on 22 July 2013.
The common for an investment trust to trade at a discount than a implementation date was 22 July 2014. premium.
BENCHMARK INDEX FAIR VALUE FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, of the Company is measured.
including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT Listed investments valued at bid prices, or last market prices, The tax which you may have to pay if you sell your shares at a where available, otherwise at published price quotations: profit.
Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate valuation COLLATERAL technique in the absence of an active market: Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under a Contract For Difference.
Futures and options valued at the quoted trade price for the contract: and CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between Contracts For Difference are valued as the difference between the Company and an investment house at the end of which the the settlement price of the contract and the value of the parties exchange the difference between the opening price and underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the FUTURE OR FUTURE CONTRACT underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in An agreement to buy or sell a fixed amount of an asset at a fixed its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company to future date and a fixed price.
gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may GEARING reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or Gearing describes the level of a companys borrowing and is fall, by selling short position.
If the Company trades long, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
It can be dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts or Contracts For trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
Difference in order to increase a companys exposure to stocks.
Gearing is permitted in order to buy or gain exposure to further CORPORATION TAX investments.
If assets rise in value, gearing magnifies the return to The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits.
Correspondingly, if the assets fall in value, trust companies are exempt from corporation tax on their capital gearing magnifies the fall.
Contracts For Difference are used as a gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset way of gaining exposure to the price movements of shares without expenses against any taxable income, most investment trusts do buying the underlying shares directly.
not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax efficient.
GEARING PERCENTAGE CUSTODIAN In a simple example, if the company has 100 million of net An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, assets and a total portfolio of 108 million, with 8 million of arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, borrowings either via bank loans or long Contracts For proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is Difference then the shareholders funds are 8% geared.
the higher the gearing percentage, the more sensitive the Companys shares will be to the movements up and down in the DEPOSITARY value of the investment portfolio.
An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
The Board has appointed HEDGING J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act as the Companys Depositary.
A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss through adverse movements, normally involving taking a position in a derivative such as a future or an option.
F Fide idelit lity Eur y Europe opean V an Value alues P s PL LC Annual R C Annual Repor eport 2014 t 2014 69 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms INVESTMENT MANAGER OPTIONS FIL Investments International acts as the Companys Investment An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation Manager.
to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specific price on or before a specific date.
Options call or put are used to gain or reduce LEVERAGE exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis, for Any method by which an AIFM increases the exposure of an AIF it example, the purchase of a call option provides exposure to the manages whether through borrowing cash or securities, or upside potential of an underlying stock, with the downside risk leverage embedded in derivative positions or by any other being limited to the premium paid.
Leverage is measured in terms of exposure and is expressed as a ratio of net asset value.
There are two measures PREMIUM of calculated leverage: If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at The Gross Method which does not reduce exposure for a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net hedging: and asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
The Commitment Method which reduces exposure for REGISTRAR hedging.
An entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
The Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
MANAGER FIL Investments Services UK Limited, was appointed as the RETURN Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund The return generated in the period from the investments: Managers Directive AIFMD, and has delegated, inter alia, investment management of the Company to the Investment Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from Manager.
investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs and taxation: PORTFOLIO MANAGER The Portfolio Manager of the Company is Sam Morse.
Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding any revenue return: and NET ASSET VALUE NAV Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets returns in the period.
less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value and NAV PER SHARE CUM INCOME represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total The net asset value per share including the net revenue on value of its liabilities.
ordinary activities after taxation for the period, as shown in the revenue column of the Income Statement.
TOTAL PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE The value of the portfolio of investments exposed to market price NAV PER SHARE EX INCOME movements.
It is made up of the fixed asset investments at fair The net asset value per share excluding the net revenue on value plus the fair value of the underlying securities within the long ordinary activities after taxation for the period.
ONGOING CHARGES TOTAL RETURN PERFORMANCE Total expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred by The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking the Company as a percentage of average net asset values.
into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares for Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company share price total return or the Companys assets for net asset offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these value total return.
shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual TREASURY SHARES general meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to Ordinary shares of the Company that have been repurchased by disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5%.
the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These shares do not pay dividends, have no voting rights and are excluded from the net asset value calculation.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 70 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
