GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors andregulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors financial statements for each financial period.
Under that law Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those they have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in regulations.
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and and integrity of the corporate and financial information fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit includedon the Companys pages of the Managers website or loss for the period.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from required to: legislation in their own jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial consistently: Statements, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair prudent: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have of the Company: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report beenfollowed, subject to any material departures disclosed includea fair review of the development and performance of and explained in the Financial Statements: thebusiness and the position of the Company together with a prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
We unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will confirm that we consider the Annual Report and Financial continue in business: and Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and confirm that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for understandable.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable Approved by the Board on 13 March 2015 and signed on its accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and behalf.
to enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 37 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
