INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Alternative Investment Fund Manager' s Disclosure As explained in the Chairmans Statement, in compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board have appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Details of the Alternative Investment Fund Management and Secretarial and Management Services Agreement dated 17 July 2014 are included in the Directors Report on page 23.
FISL has delegated the portfolio management and company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment Management The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and Details of the Companys investment investment advice in relation to the assets of the objective, strategy and investment Company.
It has delegated this function to FIL policy, including limits, are on pages Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk management In its capacity as AIFM, FIL Investment Services UK The AIFM has an ongoing process for Limited has a responsibility for risk management for the identifying, evaluating and managing Company which is in addition to the Boards corporate the principal risks faced by the governance responsibility for risk management.
Company and this is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board The Company has a Risk Management Process remains responsible for the Document which is agreed with the Board and Companys system of internal control demonstrates that risk management is separated and for reviewing its effectiveness.
functionally and hierarchically from operating units and Further details can be found in the demonstrates independence safeguards.
The Manager Strategic Report on pages 12 and 13 maintains adequate risk management systems in order and in Note 18 to the Financial to identify, measure and monitor all risks at least Statements on pages 54 to 58. annually under AIFMD.
The Manager is responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remain responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Valuation of illiquid assets The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of Not Applicable.
the AIFs assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure The maximum leverage limits are primarily to the stockmarkets of continental Europe and 1.80 for the Gross Method of currently holds long Contracts For Difference to achieve calculating leverage and 1.50 for the this.
The AIFM has set maximum levels of leverage that Commitment Method.
It has implemented systems to calculate been no changes to the maximum and monitor compliance against these limits and has level of leverage that the Company ensured that the limits have been complied with at all may employ during the year.
At 31 December 2014, actual A definition of leverage is included in the Glossary of leverage was 1.05 for the Gross Terms on page 70.
Method and 1.06 for the Commitment Method.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 71 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Alternative Investment Fund Manager' s Disclosure Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Liquidity management The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a No new arrangements for managing liquidity management policy which is considered at least the liquidity of the Company have annually.
Further details can be found in Note 18 on page 56.
Remuneration of the AIFM The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Global The FCAs General Guidance on the Remuneration Policy Statement.
This ensures that the AIFM Remuneration Code has AIFM complies with the requirements of the FCAs established that the first full Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration performance year will not commence Code SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code until 1 January 2015.
there is no data to disclose in respect of remuneration of the AIFM for this year.
The AIFMs Annual Report is available to shareholders on request.
Please contact the Company Secretary whose address can be found on page 68.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 72 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
