INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London Company relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal EC4M 5TA on 14 May 2015 at 12 noon for the following purposes: amount of 520,560 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial as at 13 March 2015 and so that the Directors may impose Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury 2.
To declare a final dividend of 3.10 pence per ordinary share shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory for the year ended 31December 2014. or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of 3.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director.
the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution 6.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
All previous unexercised authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or 7.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
grant of rights already made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such authorities.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 34 12.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above, for the year ended 31 December 2014. the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 570 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as 9.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general authority given by the said Resolution 11 and or to sell meeting at which financial statements are laid before the ordinary shares held by the Company as Treasury shares for Company.
cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 10.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions equity securities where the equity securities attributable which will be proposed, in the case of Resolution 11 as an respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of ordinary resolution and in the case of Resolutions 12 and 13 as such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be special resolutions.
to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either rights case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Resolutions 11 and 12 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to allot a limited number of the new ordinary shares or sell any fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury for practical problems in, or under the laws of, or the cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by exchange in any territory or otherwise : the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company in issue on 13 March 2015.
The Directors will only issue new b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue ordinary shares, or dispose of ordinary shares held in Treasury, of equity securities or sale of Treasury shares up to an under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the aggregate nominal amount of 520,560 approximately market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any ordinary shares held in capital of the Company as at 13 March 2015 : and Treasury would only be re-issued at a premium to net asset value per share.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing c in either case by the condition that allotments of equity and then re-issuing the ordinary shares would enhance net asset securities or sales of Treasury shares may only be made value per share.
pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the net asset value per share 11.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights 15months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 61 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to Continuation of the Company make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution which relates to the and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT the Company continues to carry on business as an investment trust.
Authority to repurchase shares Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew By Order of the Board the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number FIL Investments International of ordinary shares in issue excluding Treasury shares on Secretary 13March 2015 for immediate cancellation or for retention as 13 March 2015 Treasury shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares are held in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increase in net asset value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 ofthe Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act ofordinary shares of 2.5 pence each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to bepurchased shall be 62,425,541 ordinary shares of 2.5pence each: b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 2.5pence: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 62 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, Notes: have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual appointment of proxies in Note 2 above does not apply to Nominated General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than by members of the Company.
one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies of the Company.
are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of the address on the form to arrive not later than 12 noon on 12 May voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure 2015.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
a result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Financial Conduct Authority.
Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be beused.
entered on the register of members by 5.30pm on 12 May 2015.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the entered on the register of members at 5.30pm on the day two days vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously 10.
As at 13 March 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be publication of this document the Companys issued share capital received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 12 May 2015.
For consisted of 416,447,910 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST 13March 2015 was416,447,910.
As at 13 March 2015, there were no Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the shares held in Treasury by the Company.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting the same shares.
service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in that they are willing to receive any communications, including Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys meeting.
Registrars no later than 12 noon on 12 May 2015.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be Company may be required to publish on its website a statement determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 5.30pm on setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts 12 May 2015. including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance 7.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information since the previous meeting at which the annual report and financial rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between statements were laid.
The Company may not require the shareholders him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the complying with such requests.
Where the Company is required to meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 63 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 2 April 2015, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its Note: Please see the Shareholder Information section on pages 67 and 68 for contact details if you have any queries.
Please note that shareholders may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice or any related documents including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Shareholders may not use any telephone number set out in this document for the purpose of lodging instructions for the Annual General Meeting.
Similarly the Companys website www.
co. uk its may not be used to send documents or instructions for the Annual General Meeting.
Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 64 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The information on the following pages is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity European Values PLC.
Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can invest in a way claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to our that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company share dealing service.
listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent European Values PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a way to get more from your investment, because you will not have lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month through a regular to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without With effect from 1 July 2014, ISAs were reformed into a simpler having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a product, the New ISA NISA, with equal limits for cash, and monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice stocks and shares.
The overall subscription limit is 15,000.
minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive regular savings plan.
way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA may Plan application form.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, there will be no initial charge.
Those investing through an intermediary Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding will pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any initial fee or shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than commission where applicable agreed with their intermediary.
stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an there may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a adviser.
performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the performance BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS fee is no longer payable to Fidelity.
Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to Investing for children Junior ISAs JISA are similar to adult receive information rights.
You should contact your registered ISAs but with a few important differences.
shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been Junior ISAs are available to UK residents under the age of 18 who nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive do not have a child trust fund, if opened by a parent or guardian information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 who is older than 18. are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita Money cannot be withdrawn from the product until the child turns Asset Services, or to the Company direct.
18, when the policy will automatically become an adult ISA and the child will be able to access the funds subject to proof of INVESTING ONLINE identity.
Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA, JISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are all available via MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA www.
You can also invest online in Fidelity If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you European Values PLC shares via the share trading facility can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity European available via our website www.
The Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is known as an ISA Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which transfer and it can be a great way to give your portfolio a new is the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a focus, or to realign it with your current investment goals.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or note that during the transfer your money will not be invested in the sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock stock market so you may miss out on any growth during this time.
Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be into Fidelity European Values PLC.
You will also not have to pay shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your as soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can dealing services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 65 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote at shareholder meetings in your own name.
Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA are offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Bank of New York Mellon and shares will be held in the name of Bank of New York Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and the symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 66 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values PLC T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
