Additional disclosures In 2012 and 2013, the Gulf of Mexico was impacted by the Bureau of Environmental expenditure Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcements BOEMRE Notice to Lessees NTL 2010-G05, issued in October 2010, which $ million requires that idle infrastructure on active leases be decommissioned 2014 2013 2012 earlier than previously was required and establishes guidelines to Environmental expenditure relating to the determine the future utility of idle infrastructure on active leases.
a Gulf of Mexico oil spill 190 66 919 We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews Operating expenditure 624 657 742 take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning Capital expenditure 590 1,091 1,207 requirements and any technological developments.
Clean-ups 33 42 47 Additions to environmental remediation Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are provision 371 472 549 usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Additions to decommissioning provision 2,216 2,092 3,766 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Further details a of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear in the financial The environmental expenditure credit of $66 million in 2013 arises primarily from the write-back of a spill response provision.
Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Regulation of the groups business Mexico oil spill BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2. production, trading, biofuels, wind and shipping activities, are conducted Other environmental expenditure in almost 80 countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
Instead, it forms part of a larger These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include matters transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, The figures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the health and safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, table are therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under Environmental operating expenditure of $624 million in 2014 was at a which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled company and Capital expenditure in 2014 was lower than in 2013 principally due to are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
Arrangements reduced levels of construction activity at our Whiting refinery in 2014 as with governmental or state entities usually take the form of licences or compared to 2013.
The final major units associated with the Whiting production-sharing agreements PSAs, although arrangements with the refinery modernization project were commissioned in December 2013.
US government can be by lease.
Arrangements with private property Clean-up costs in 2014 were lower than in 2013 primarily due to an owners are usually in the form of leases.
overall reduction in clean-up activities and services required across sites.
Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also establish exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the risk provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such of exploration, development and production activities and provides the provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included in financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and company generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future programmes could be production remaining after royalties, if any.
significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and in which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be production activities, and in some cases production licences are limited material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
Additions to our environmental remediation provision decreased in 2014 Both exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government typically largely due to scope reassessments of the remediation plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for environmental remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of BPs remediation provisions in 2014 included $13 million in respect of provisions for new sites 2013 $13 million and 2012 $19 million.
licences and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from country to country.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasproducing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other international decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value of oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be incorporated or the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
unincorporated arrangements, while the co-ownerships are typically In 2014 additions to the decommissioning provision were greater than in unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant 2013, and occurred as a result of detailed reviews of expected future agreements set out each partys level of participation or ownership costs, and to a lesser extent increases to the asset base.
The majority of interest in the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
Conventionally, all these additions related to our sites in the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico costs, benefits, rights, obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying and Angola.
The additions in 2012 and 2013 were driven by changes in out joint-arrangement or co-ownership operations under a lease or estimation and detailed reviews of expected future costs.
licence are shared among the joint-arrangement or co-owning parties Defined on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 225 according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of jointUnited States arrangement or co-owned property and hydrocarbons to which the joint The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel arrangement or co-ownership is entitled is also shared in these specifications and other aspects of our production, distribution and proportions.
To the extent that any liabilities arise, whether to marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur in fuels will affect us in governments or third parties, or as between the joint arrangement parties future, as will actions on greenhouse gas GHG emissions and other or co-owners themselves, each joint arrangement party or co-owner will air pollutants.
States may also have separate, stricter air emission laws generally be liable to meet these in proportion to its ownership interest.
In many upstream operations, a party known as the operator will be The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and appointed pursuant to a joint operating agreement to carry out day-toSecurity Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other day operations on behalf of the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
The things, imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG operator is typically one of the joint arrangement parties or a co-owner emissions thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as and will carry out its duties either through its own staff, or by contracting California also impose additional fuel carbon standards.
out various elements to third-party contractors or service providers.
BP The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent acts as operator on behalf of joint arrangements and co-ownerships in a discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge number of countries where it has exploration and production activities.
permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be and preventative measures.
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the contracted out to third-party service providers who have the relevant expertise and equipment not available within the joint arrangement or the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated with our operations and can require corrective action at locations co-owning operators organization.
The relevant contract will specify the work to be done and the remuneration to be paid and will typically set out where such wastes have been disposed of or released.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and how major risks will be allocated between the joint arrangement or coownership and the service provider.
Generally, the joint arrangement or Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or operated co-owner and the contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each other for harm caused to their a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or arranged for disposal of a hazardous substance at a site.
BP has incurred, or is likely to incur, respective staff and property.
Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and gas industry service contract may also contain provisions liability under the CERCLA or similar state laws, including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
BP is also subject to claims for allocating risks and liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoir and for claims from remediation costs under other federal and state laws, and to claims for natural resource damages under the CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act of third parties or other losses.
The allocation of those risks vary among contracts and are determined through negotiation between the parties.
1990 OPA 90 discussed below and other federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires hazardous substance release notification.
In general, BP incurs income tax on income generated from production The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs manufacture, import, activities whether under a licence or PSA.
In addition, depending on the export, sale and use of chemical substances and products.
area, BPs production activities may be subject to a range of other taxes, The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and levies and assessments, including special petroleum taxes and revenue health requirements on BP operations along with significant process taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits and activities safety management obligations.
may be substantially higher than those imposed on other activities, for In May 2012, the US adopted the UN Global Harmonization System example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, the US, Russia GHS for hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and products, and Trinidad & Tobago.
with the modification of the Occupational Safety & Health Environmental regulation Administration OSHA Hazard Communication Standard.
This requires BP to reassess the hazards of all our chemicals and products against Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission controls, new GHS criteria as adopted or modified by OSHA and to update climate change programmes and regulation of unconventional oil and gas warning labels and safety data sheets accordingly by 1 June 2015. extraction under a number of environmental laws may have a significant The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport of effect on the production, sale and profitability of many of BPs products.
BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, petrochemicals There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and and other hydrocarbon liquids.
restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or The Maritime Transportation Security Act MTSA, the DOT Hazardous hydrocarbons associated with our operations.
These laws may apply to Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it previously owned or CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations on around operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and other parties waste.
See Financial Statements Note 21 for information on provisions for OPA 90 is implemented through regulations issued by the US environmental restoration and remediation.
Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the US Coast Guard, the DOT, OSHA, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement and A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings against various states.
Alaska and the West Coast states currently have the certain BP group companies under environmental laws could result in most demanding state requirements.
Group companies are also subject to environmental claims for personal injury and property damage alleging As a consequence of the Deepwater Horizon incident, BP has become the release of, or exposure to, hazardous substances.
The costs subject to claims under OPA 90 and other laws and has established a associated with future environmental remediation obligations, $20-billion trust fund for legitimate state and local government response governmental proceedings and claims could be significant and may be claims, final judgments and settlement claims, legitimate state and local material to the results of operations in the period in which they are response costs, natural resource damages and related costs and recognized.
We cannot accurately predict the effects of future legitimate individual and business claims see Gulf of Mexico oil spill on developments, such as stricter environmental laws or enforcement page 36.
BP is also subject to natural resource damages claims, claims policies, or future events at our facilities, on the group, and there can be for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act, and numerous civil lawsuits no assurance that material liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the by individuals, businesses and governmental entities.
For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see for these claims cannot be determined at this time.
For further page 225. disclosures relating to the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see Legal proceedings on page 228.
A significant proportion of our fixed assets are located in the US and the EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations significantly BP has also been in discussions with the EPA regarding alleged CAA affect BPs operations.
Significant legislation and regulation in the US and violations at the Toledo refinery and the EPA has alleged certain CAA the EU affecting our businesses and profitability includes the following: violations at the Cherry Point refinery and the Carson refinery which BP sold to Tesoro Corporation on 1 June 2013.
226 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures European Union chemicals and products against the new GHS criteria as adopted or modified by the EU and to update warning labels and safety data In October 2014, the European Council agreed on new climate and sheets accordingly.
The CLP will come into effect for mixtures e. g. energy targets for the period up to 2030. lubricants in 2015.
A separate EU regulation on export and import of The 2008 EU Climate and Energy Package is expected to remain in hazardous chemicals requires warning labels and safety data sheets place until 2020 and includes an updated EU Emissions Trading accompanying EU exports to be compliant with relevant CLP and System EU ETS Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive.
The REACH requirements unless this conflicts with requirements in the updated EU ETS has been expanded to include, among others, the importing country and, as far as practicable, in the official or one or petrochemical sector.
Installations in sectors at risk of carbon leakage more principal languages of the intended area of use.
Safety data i. e. production transfers out of the EU ETS trading area are partially sheets for the EU market have been or are being updated to include compensated with free allocation of emission allowances based on both REACH and CLP information.
sector benchmarks used to calculate the number of free emissions per The EU Offshore Safety Directive, adopted in 2013, is required to be installation.
transposed into national legislation by Member States, including the The Energy Efficiency Directive EED was adopted in 2012.
Its purpose is to introduce a harmonized regime EU Member States to implement an indicative 2020 energy saving aimed at reducing the potential environmental, health and safety target and apply a framework of measures as part of a national energy impacts of the offshore oil and gas industry throughout EU waters.
efficiency programme, including mandatory industrial energy efficiency Implementation into UK legislation will involve alignment of the regime surveys.
This directive is being implemented in the UK by the Energy currently operating in the UK.
Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS, which affects our offshore and onshore assets.
ISO50001 is being implemented in some EU states to Environmental maritime regulations meet some elements of the Energy Efficiency Directive.
BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and The Industrial Emissions Directive IED provides the framework for international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill granting permits for major industrial sites.
It lays down rules on prevention and insurance.
These include: integrated prevention and control of air, water and soil pollution arising from industrial activities.
This may result in requirements for BP to In US waters, OPA 90 imposes liability and spill prevention and further reduce its emissions, particularly its air and water emissions.
As planning requirements governing, among others, tankers, barges and part of the IED framework, additional emission limit values are offshore facilities.
It also mandates a levy on imported and informed by the sector specific and cross-sector Best Available domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses.
Some states, Technology BAT Conclusions, such as the recently published BAT including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional Conclusions for the refining sector.
Further BAT Conclusions that may liability for oil spills.
Outside US territorial waters, BP shipping tankers result in additional emission reduction requirements are expected are subject to international liability, spill response and preparedness within the next two years.
regulations under the UNs International Maritime Organization, The European Commissions Clean Air Policy Package including a new including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, directive for medium-sized combustion plants, a revised National the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships Emission Ceilings Directive and a ratification proposal for the amended MARPOL Convention, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Gothenburg Protocol may once adopted wholly or in part result in Preparedness, Response and Co-operation and the International requirements for further emission reductions at BPs EU sites.
Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April The implementation of the Water Framework Directive and the 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol 2010 was Environmental Quality Directive may mean that BP has to take further adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification of the steps to manage freshwater withdrawals and discharges from its EU International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in operations.
Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by The EU regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS requires BP to Sea 1996.
As of 6 January 2015, the number of contracting states to reduce the use of ODS and phase out use of certain ODSs.
BP the HNS Convention remained at 14, so it has not yet entered continues to replace ODS in refrigerants and or equipment, in the EU into force.
and elsewhere, in accordance with the Montreal Protocol and related Changes to the permitted level of sulphur in marine fuels under EU legislation.
In addition, the EU regulation on fluorinated gases with high mandated reductions and International Maritime Organization global warming potential came into force on 1 January 2015.
This guidelines over the next 5-10 years are intended to result in the might further limit the use of some refrigerants, such as in gas reduction of sulphur oxides emissions from ships, either through the processing facilities.
burning of low sulphur marine fuels or the use of approved on-board The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of abatement technology.
These restrictions are expected to place transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the additional costs on refineries producing marine fuel, including costs to life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter environmental dispose of sulphur, as well as increased GHG emissions and energy fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
The EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP shipping maintains REACH Regulation requires registration of chemical substances marine liability pollution insurance in respect of its operated ships to a manufactured in or imported into the EU, together with the submission maximum limit of $1 billion for each occurrence through mutual of relevant hazard and risk data.
REACH affects our refining, insurance associations P&I Clubs, although there can be no assurance petrochemicals, exploration and production, biofuels, lubricants and that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by insurance or that other manufacturing or trading import operations.
In accordance with liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
the required phase-in timetable, BP has completed registration of all substances in tonnage bands equal to or greater than 100 tonnes per Greenhouse gas regulation annum legal entity, and is in the process of preparing registration Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of dossiers for substances manufactured or imported in amounts in the range 1-100 tonnes per annum legal entity that are currently due to be international climate agreements and negotiations that are ongoing.
Some substances registered In 2011, parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change previously, including substances supplied to us by third parties for our conference in Durban COP17 agreed to several measures.
One was a use, are now subject to thorough evaluation and review for potential roadmap for negotiating a legal framework for action on climate change authorization and restriction procedures, and possible banning, by the by 2015 that would involve all countries by 2020 and would close the European Chemicals Agency and EU member state authorities.
ambition gap between existing GHG reduction pledges and what is In addition, the EU is implementing the UN Global Harmonization required to achieve the goal of limiting global temperature rise to 2C.
System for hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and Another was a second commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol to products through the Classification Labelling and Packaging CLP begin immediately after the first period.
This requires BP to reassess the hazards of all our subsequently adopted at the 2012 conference of parties COP18 in Doha BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 227
