Additional disclosures insurance policy throughout 2014.
During the year, a review of the terms Changes in internal control over financial reporting and scope of the policy was undertaken.
The 2013 policy was extended There were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial into 2014 and subsequently renewed during 2014 into 2015.
Although reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that their defence costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have internal controls over financial reporting.
In addition, each director of the companys subsidiaries which subsidiaries are trustees of the groups Principal accountants fees and services pension schemes, is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of such a subsidiarys activities as a The audit committee has established policies and procedures for the trustee of the pension scheme, to the extent permitted by law.
These engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm, indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and at the date of Ernst & Young LLP, to render audit and certain assurance and tax this report.
The policies provide for pre-approval by the audit committee of specifically defined audit, audit-related, tax and other services that are not Financial risk management objectives and policies prohibited by regulatory or other professional requirements.
Ernst & The disclosures in relation to financial risk management objectives and Young are engaged for these services when its expertise and experience policies, including the policy for hedging, are included in Our of BP are important.
Most of this work is of an audit nature.
Tax services management of risk on page 46, Liquidity and capital resources on page were awarded either through a full competitive tender process or 211 and Financial statements Notes 27 and 28. following an assessment of the expertise of Ernst & Young relative to Exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk that of other potential service providers.
These services are for a fixed The disclosures in relation to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity term.
risk and cash flow risk are included in Financial statements Note 27.
Under the policy, pre-approval is given for specific services within the Important events since the end of the financial year following categories: advice on accounting, auditing and financial Disclosures of the particulars of the important events affecting BP which reporting matters: internal accounting and risk management control have occurred since the end of the financial year are included in the reviews excluding any services relating to information systems design Strategic report as well as in other places in the Directors report.
and implementation : non-statutory audit: project assurance and advice on business and accounting process improvement excluding any Likely future developments in the business services relating to information systems design and implementation An indication of the likely future developments of the business is relating to BPs financial statements or accounting records : due diligence included in the Strategic report.
in connection with acquisitions, disposals and joint arrangements Research and development excluding valuation or involvement in prospective financial information : An indication of the activities of the company in the field of research and income tax and indirect tax compliance and advisory services: employee development is included in Our strategy on page 13. tax services excluding tax services that could impair independence : Branches provision of, or access to, Ernst & Young publications, workshops, As a global group our interests and activities are held or operated through seminars and other training materials: provision of reports from data subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates gathered on non-financial policies and information: and assistance with established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many understanding non-financial regulatory requirements.
tier system for audit and non-audit services.
For audit related services, the audit committee has a pre-approved aggregate level, within which Employees specific work may be approved by management.
Non-audit services, The disclosures concerning policies in relation to the employment of including tax services, are pre-approved for management to authorize per disabled persons and employee involvement are included in Corporate individual engagement, but above a defined level must be approved by responsibility Employees on page 44. the chairman of the audit committee or the full committee.
The audit Employee share schemes committee has delegated to the chairman of the audit committee Certain shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts authority to approve permitted services provided that the chairman ESOPs carry voting rights.
Voting rights in respect of such shares are reports any decisions to the committee at its next scheduled meeting.
Any proposed service not included in the approved service list must be approved in advance by the audit committee chairman and reported to Greenhouse gas emissions the committee, or approved by the full audit committee in advance of The disclosures in relation to greenhouse gas emissions are included in commencement of the engagement.
Corporate responsibility Environment and society on page 42.
The audit committee evaluates the performance of the auditors each year.
The audit fees payable to Ernst & Young are reviewed by the Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R committee in the context of other global companies for cost The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
The committee keeps under review the scope and results located as set out below: of audit work and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Information required Page External regulation and BP policy requires the auditors to rotate their lead 1 Amount of interest capitalized 123 audit partner every five years.
See Financial statements Note 34 and 2 14 Not applicable Audit committee report on page 64 for details of fees for services provided by auditors.
Cautionary statement Directors report information This document contains certain forecasts, projections and forwardlooking statements that is, statements related to future, not past This section of BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 forms part of, and events with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be included in, businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with the Directors report.
These statements may generally, but not always, Indemnity provisions be identified by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, on appointment each to, aims, should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, director is granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities anticipates, plans, we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
These other statements, 1 certain statements in the Chairmans letter pages indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and at the date of 6-7, the Group chief executives letter pages 8-9, the Strategic report this report.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a directors and officers liability Defined on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 241
