Shareholder information Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows between two parties.
A typical swap transaction usually references a floating price Glossary and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows being settled.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the definitions for the following Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell glossary terms are given below.
crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on or before a specific future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial Associate instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used An entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
which the group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement of the group.
Significant influence is the power to Spot and term contracts participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the but is not control or joint control over those policies.
market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a Consolidation adjustment UPII commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and Unrealized profit in inventory arising on inter-segment transactions.
term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting Commodity trading contracts mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in regional operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts typically relate to and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, transact and purchases of crude for a refinery, products for marketing, or third-party hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural gas that the group natural gas, or sales of the groups oil production, oil products or gas either produces or consumes in its manufacturing operations.
These production to third parties.
For accounting purposes, spot and term sales physical trading activities, together with associated incremental trading are included in sales and other operating revenues when title passes.
opportunities, are discussed in Upstream on page 28 and in Downstream Similarly, spot and term purchases are included in purchases for on page 31.
The range of contracts the group enters into in its accounting purposes.
commodity trading operations is described below.
Using these contracts, Dividend yield in combination with rights to access storage and transportation capacity, Sum of the four quarterly dividends declared in the year as a percentage allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between of the year-end share price on the respective exchange.
locations, time periods and arbitrage between markets.
Fair value accounting effects Exchange-traded commodity derivatives We use derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure Contracts that are typically in the form of futures and options traded on a relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX and ICE.
Such contracts are natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, such as recorded at historical cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, Brent and West Texas Intermediate: the main product grades, such as are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized gasoline and gasoil: and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, in the income statement.
This is because hedge accounting is either not otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and  requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences risk management of crude oil, refined products, and natural gas and in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded these inventories are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a commodity derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative for accounting purposes.
commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the Over-the-counter contracts time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value Contracts that are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties or BP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business through brokers, others may be cleared by a central clearing requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery or the sale of counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on overderivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as the-counter OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
Gains and losses arising revenues for accounting purposes.
Many grades of crude oil bought and are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative sold use standard contracts including US domestic light sweet crude oil, commodity contract is entered into.
commonly referred to as West Texas Intermediate, and a standard North Sea crude blend Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk BFOE.
Forward IFRS require that inventory held for trading is recorded at its fair value contracts are used in connection with the purchase of crude oil supplies using period-end spot prices, whereas any related derivative commodity for refineries, products for marketing and sales of the groups oil instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward production and refined products.
The contracts typically contain standard prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market delivery and settlement terms.
These transactions call for physical conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot delivery of oil with consequent operational and price risk.
However, prices, resulting in measurement differences.
BP enters into contracts for various means exist and are used from time to time, to settle obligations pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas processing and liquefied under the contracts in cash rather than through physical delivery.
natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis.
Because the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo, the These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of derivative BFOE contract additionally specifies a standard volume and tolerance.
instruments that are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and the UK, where commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in future The way BP manages the economic exposures described above, and periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to purchase measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and settlement are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for consolidated at a future date.
Typically, the contracts specify delivery terms for the entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements internal underlying commodity.
Some of these transactions are not settled measure of performance.
Under managements internal measure of physically as they can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale or performance the inventory and capacity contracts in question are valued purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are based on fair value using relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain the period.
The fair values of certain derivative instruments used to risk standard terms such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement manage LNG and oil and gas processing contracts are deferred to match terms and specification of the commodity.
Typically, volume, price and with the underlying exposure and the commodity contracts for business term e. g. daily, monthly and balance of month are the main variable requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe that contract terms.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 253 disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful total of finance debt plus shareholders interest.
See Financial information for investors because it enables investors to see the statements Note 25 for information on gross debt, which is the nearest economic effect of these activities as a whole.
equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
Free cash flow Net wind generation capacity Operating cash flow less net cash used in investing activities, as The sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have entered presented in the condensed group cash flow statement.
into commercial operation, including BPs share of equity-accounted entities.
The gross data is the equivalent capacity on a gross-JV basis, Gearing which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where See Net debt and net debt ratio definition.
Hydrocarbons Non-operating items Liquids and natural gas.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 Charges and credits arising in consolidated entities and in TNK-BP and billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
Rosneft that are included in the financial statements and that BP Inventory holding gains and losses discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be The difference between the cost of sales calculated using the meaningful and relevant to investors.
They are items that management replacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the considers not to be part of underlying business operations and are first-in first-out FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in disclosed in order to enable investors better to understand and evaluate provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its the groups reported financial performance.
Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost Operating capital employed of inventory charged to the income statement is based on its historical Non-GAAP measure.
Total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, cost of purchase or manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
volatile energy markets, this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The amounts disclosed represent the difference Operating cash flow and operating cash between the charge to the income statement for inventory on a FIFO Net cash provided by used in operating activities as stated in the basis after adjusting for any related movements in net realizable value condensed group cash flow statement.
When used in the context of a provisions and the charge that would have arisen based on the segment rather than the group, the terms refer to the segments share replacement cost of inventory.
For this purpose, the replacement cost of thereof.
inventory is calculated using data from each operations production and Operating management system OMS manufacturing system, either on a monthly basis, or separately for each BPs OMS helps us manage risks in our operating activities by setting out transaction where the system allows this approach.
The amounts BPs principles for good operating practice.
It brings together BP disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a requirements on health, safety, security, the environment, social gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of inventories responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary inventory maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, into a positions.
See Replacement cost RC profit or loss definition below.
Joint arrangement Organic capital expenditure An arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control.
Excludes acquisitions, asset exchanges, and other inorganic capital Joint control expenditure.
An analysis of capital expenditure by segment and region is Contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists shown in Financial statements Note 4. only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous Plant efficiency consent of the parties sharing control.
Plant efficiency is calculated taking 100% less the ratio of total plant Joint operation deferrals divided by installed production capacity.
Plant deferrals include A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the planned and unplanned deferrals associated with the topside plant and arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, where applicable the subsea equipment excluding wells and reservoir.
Plant deferrals include breakdowns, planned events, turnarounds, and weather.
Joint venture A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the Production-sharing agreement PSA arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
An arrangement through which an oil company bears the risks and costs of exploration, development and production.
In return, if exploration is Liquids successful, the oil company receives entitlement to variable physical Comprises crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
For reserves, it volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of the costs incurred also includes bitumen.
and a stipulated share of the production remaining after such cost Major projects recovery.
Have a BP net investment of at least $250 million, or are considered to Proved reserves replacement ratio be of strategic importance to BP or of a high degree of complexity.
The extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
Net debt and net debt ratio gearing This ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms and includes changes Non-GAAP measures.
Net debt includes the fair value of associated resulting from revisions to previous estimates, improved recovery, and derivative financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign exchange extensions and discoveries.
and interest rate risks relating to finance debt, for which hedge Refining availability accounting is claimed.
The derivatives are reported on the balance sheet Represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is defined within the headings Derivative financial instruments.
We believe that as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after net debt and net debt ratio provide useful information to investors.
Net subtracting the annualized time lost due to turnaround activity and all debt enables investors to see the economic effect of gross debt, related planned mechanical, process and regulatory downtime.
hedges and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt ratio enables investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from Refining marker margin RMM shareholders.
The net debt ratio is defined as the ratio of finance debt The average of regional indicator margins weighted for BPs crude borrowings, including the fair value of associated derivative financial refining capacity in each region.
Each regional marker margin is based on instruments that are used to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate product yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the region.
risks relating to finance debt, plus obligations under finance leases to the The regional indicator margins may not be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refinery configurations and crude and product slate.
254 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Shareholder information Replacement cost RC profit or loss Unit cash margin    Upstreamsegment,  loss.
  Trade marks of the BP group appear throughout this Annual Report  and Form 20-F in italics.
 ARCO SaaBre  BP WildBeanCafe , andtomake Castrol  , BPs .
FieldoftheFuture M&S Simply Food is a registered trade  mark of Marks & Spencer plc.
Underlying RC profit or loss  accountingeffects.
   financial,  , inthesamemanneras management,  acomparablebasis, yearonyear,  .
