Additional disclosures In the UK sector of the North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline Upstream analysis by region System FPS BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and Our upstream operations are listed by geographical area, with associated processing system that handles production from around 80 fields in the significant events for 2014.
BPs percentage working interest in oil and central North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 675mboe d, gas assets is shown in parenthesis.
Working interest is the cost-bearing with average throughput in 2014 of 363mboe d. BP also operates and ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
Consequently, the percentages has a 36% interest in the Central Area Transmission System CATS, a disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily reflect the 400-kilometre natural gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of the percentage interests in reserves and production.
North Sea providing transport and processing services.
The pipeline has a transportation capacity of 293mboe d to a natural gas terminal at In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our Teesside in north-east England.
Average throughput in 2014 was Upstream business also includes midstream and LNG activities.
134mboe d. BP also operates the Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude oil Shetland.
In December, BP announced the intent to sell our equity in the and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export terminals, LNG CATS business.
processing facilities and transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs extraction business.
North America Our LNG supply activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, Our upstream activities in North America take place in four main areas: Indonesia and Trinidad.
We market around 20% of our LNG production deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Lower 48 states, Alaska and Canada.
For using BP LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal further information on BPs activities in connection with its capacity in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point, the UK via the responsibilities following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see page 36.
Isle of Grain, Spain in Bilbao and Italy in Rovigo, with the remainder BP has around 600 lease blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, more marketed directly to customers.
LNG is supplied to customers in multiple than any other company, and operates four production hubs.
markets including Japan, South Korea, China, the Dominican Republic, BP had 10 rigs in the Gulf of Mexico at the end of 2014.
In September, BP and Tokyo Electric Power The BP-operated Na Kika Phase 3 project BP 50% and the ShellCompany TEPCO signed an agreement for TEPCO to purchase up to operated Mars B major project BP 28.5% started up in February.
A 1.2 million tonnes of LNG per year from BP for 17 years starting in 2017. second Na Kika Phase 3 well started up in April.
Europe The Atlantis North expansion Phase 2 major project BP 56% started up in April.
BP is active in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
Our activities focus BP announced an oil discovery at the Guadalupe prospect BP 42.5% on maximizing recovery from existing producing fields and selected new in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in October.
Project operator Chevron field developments.
BPs production is generated from three key areas: drilled the discovery well on Keathley Canyon block 10 on behalf of the the Shetland Area comprising Magnus, Clair, Foinaven and Schiehallion Guadalupe co-owners.
The well encountered significant economically fields: the Central Area comprising Bruce, Andrew and ETAP fields: and producible hydrocarbons in Paleogene age Wilcox Sands.
Norway, comprising Valhall, Ula and Skarv fields.
In January 2015 BP announced it had formed a new ownership and In March 2013 BP and its partners, ConocoPhillips, Chevron and Shell, operating model with Chevron and ConocoPhillips to focus on moving announced the decision to proceed with a two-year appraisal programme two significant BP Paleogene discoveries closer to development and to evaluate a potential third phase of the Clair field BP 28.6%, west of provide expanded exploration access in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
By the end of 2014, five of the planned six appraisal BP sold approximately half of its current equity interests in the Gila wells had been completed, with drilling started on the sixth well.
field to Chevron in December and sold approximately half of its equity Activity continued on the major redevelopment of the Schiehallion and interest in the Tiber field in January 2015.
BP, Chevron and Loyal fields to the west of Shetland during 2014.
Following work to ConocoPhillips also have agreed to joint ownership interests in preserve the existing wells and subsea infrastructure, the risers and exploration blocks east of Gila known as Gibson, where they plan to moorings were disconnected, allowing the Schiehallion floating drill in 2015.
As a result of the agreements, BP, Chevron and production storage and offloading unit FPSO to be towed off-station in ConocoPhillips will have the same working interests across Gila and May.
Construction continues on the replacement FPSO, the Glen Lyon.
Gibson and any future centralized production facility.
Chevron will hold Operations at the Rhum gas field recommenced in October under a equity interest of 36%, BP 34% and ConocoPhillips 30%.
In Tiber, BP temporary management scheme announced by the UK government in and Chevron will each hold equity interest of 31%, Petrobras 20% and 2013.
Production had been suspended since November 2010 following ConocoPhillips 18%.
Chevron will operate Tiber, Gila and Gibson.
the imposition of EU sanctions on Iran.
The field is owned by BP Operatorship is expected to be transferred after BP finishes drilling 50% and the Iranian Oil Company IOC under a joint operating appraisal wells at Gila and Tiber.
BP believes combining the technical agreement.
See International trade sanctions on page 238. strengths and financial resources of these three companies will provide BP announced the Vorlich discovery in the central North Sea in greater efficiency through scale, reduce subsurface risk and increase October.
It spans the GDF SUEZ E&P UK Ltd-operated block 30 1f and the likelihood of achieving a future commercial development.
BP was the apparent high bidder in 27 out of 32 blocks in the Gulf of Production started up from the Kinnoull field BP 77.06% in the central Mexico western lease sales in August, all of which have been North Sea in December.
The Kinnoull reservoir, developed as part of a awarded.
This is in addition to 24 blocks awarded in the Gulf of Mexico wider rejuvenation of the Andrew field area, is tied back to BPs in March lease sales.
See also Significant estimate or judgement: oil Andrew platform and will enable production there to be extended.
BP and natural gas accounting on page 102 for further information on has been granted three licences in the UK governments 28th licensing leases.
The licences are located in three of our core areas: to the north The US Lower 48 onshore business has significant activities producing of our Magnus field in the northern North Sea: next to our recent natural gas, NGLs and condensate across seven states, including Vorlich discovery: and west of our Kinnoull development.
The production from unconventional gas, coalbed methane CBM and shale government is still to award some licences in this round as they are gas assets.
BP has an extensive resource base across 3.0 million net 5.5 million In December, a number of North Sea fields were subject to impairment gross developed acres and over 22,815 gross wells, with daily charges, primarily as a result of reductions in proved reserves, production around 300mboe d. We believe there is potential to unlock decreases in short-term oil and gas price assumptions and increases in significant value from this resource base and we have decades of expected decommissioning cost estimates.
The total impairment experience in the necessary technologies.
charge for 2014 was $4,774 million, of which $1,964 million related to the Valhall asset, $660 million related to the Andrew area assets, and Starting in 2015 our US Lower 48 onshore business began operating as a $515 million related to the ETAP asset.
There were a number of other separate business, with its own governance, processes and systems.
impairment charges that were not individually significant.
This is designed to promote faster decision making and adoption of innovation so that BP can be more competitive in the US onshore market.
David Lawler was named chief executive officer in August.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 213 BP and Pantera Acquisition Group, LLC Pantera signed an have not yet reached agreement regarding the terms for the transfer of agreement under which Pantera agreed to acquire BPs interests in Unocals interest in TAPS and related litigation will continue in 2015. the Panhandle West and Texas Hugoton gas fields for a purchase In Canada, BP is currently focused on oil sands development and intends price of $390 million in June.
See page 26 for more information.
to use in situ steam-assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology, which Following on from the decision to create a separate BP business uses the injection of steam into the reservoir to warm the bitumen so around our US Lower 48 onshore oil and gas activities, and as a that it can flow to the surface through producing wells.
We hold interests consequence of disappointing appraisal results, we decided not to in three oil sands leases through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide proceed with development plans in the Utica shale, incurring a Grace partnerships and the Pike Oil Sands joint operation.
In addition, we $544-million write-off relating to this acreage.
have significant offshore exploration interests in the Canadian Beaufort For further information on the use of hydraulic fracturing in our shale gas Sea and in Nova Scotia.
BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and Phase 1 of the Sunrise Oil Sands SAGD development, in which BP has related transportation assets are included in the Downstream segment.
a 50% non-operated interest, achieved first steam in the reservoir in In Alaska, at the end of 2014, BP operated nine North Slope oilfields in December 2014.
The production capacity of Sunrise Phase 1 is the Greater Prudhoe Bay area and owned significant interests in six expected to be 60mb d of bitumen.
producing fields operated by others.
BP also owns significant nonA major seismic programme on the Nova Scotia exploration licenses was 2 operating interests in the Point Thomson development project and the conducted over the summer of 2014 with 7,090km of wide azimuth 3D Liberty prospect.
The processing of this seismic data will be completed by the end of 2015 to identify possible exploration well In April BP announced the agreement to sell interests in four BPlocations.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 BP expanded the Nova operated oilfields on the North Slope of Alaska to Hilcorp.
The sale Scotia licence participation to include Hess Canada Oil and Gas ULC and agreement included all of BPs interests in the Endicott and Woodside Energy International Canada.
The new participating interests Northstar oilfields and a 50% interest in each of the Milne Point are BP 40% operator, Hess 40% and Woodside 20%.
field and the Liberty prospect, together with BPs interests in the oil and gas pipelines associated with these fields.
The sales price South America was $1.25 billion plus an additional carry of up to $250 million if the BP has upstream activities in Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Uruguay Liberty field is developed.
The sale completed in November.
Development of the Point Thomson initial production facility continued In Brazil, BP has interests in 22 exploration and production concessions throughout 2014.
Engineering design is complete and construction of across six basins, five of which are operated by BP.
BPs entry into five of field infrastructure and fabrication of the four main process modules is these concessions is subject to government and regulatory approvals.
Overall, the project is on track to commence production in BP completed the sale of interest in the Polvo oil field BP 60% in 2016.
BP holds a 32% working interest in the field, and ExxonMobil is Brazil to HRT Oil & Gas Ltda for $135 million in January.
During the year BP continued appraisal of the Itaipu discovery, located BP continued to work jointly with ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips, in the deepwater sector of the Campos basin offshore Brazil, in line TransCanada, the Alaska Gasline Development Corporation and the with the appraisal plan approved by the Brazilian National Petroleum State of Alaska throughout 2014 to advance the Alaska LNG project.
February 2013 a lead concept for the project was announced, In October the ANP approved the appraisal plan submitted by the consisting of a North Slope gas treatment plant, an 800-mile operator, Petrleo Brasileiro S. A. Petrobras for BM-POT-16 and BMapproximately pipeline to tidewater and a three-train liquefaction POT-17 two blocks in the deepwater Potiguar basin located in the facility, with an estimated capacity of 3bcf d up to 20 million tonnes Brazilian equatorial margin, covering activities to 2018.
In October 2013 selection of the lead site for the a 40% interest in the blocks announced in July 2013 is subject to final liquefaction facility was announced as Nikiski, Alaska, located on the regulatory approvals.
In January BP, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips In July BP had a discovery at Xerelete BP 18% in Brazils Campos and TransCanada, and the Alaska Gasline Development Corporation signed a heads of agreement HOA with the State of Alaska enabling basin, operated by Total.
state participation in the $45-$65 billion Alaska LNG project.
The HOA In Argentina, Bolivia and Chile, BP conducts activity through Pan sets out guiding principles for the parties to negotiate project-enabling American Energy LLC PAE, an equity-accounted joint venture with contracts, and provided a roadmap for State of Alaska participation in Bridas Corporation, in which BP has a 60% interest.
In April the Alaska Legislature passed legislation SB-138 which approved State participation in the project as a 25% co-investor, In Uruguay, BP has interests in three offshore deepwater exploration blocks: blocks 11 and 12 in the Pelotas basin and block 6 in the Punta del and allowed payment of gas production tax in the form of gas volumes.
2 On 30 June 2014 the Alaska LNG co-venturers, including the State of Este basin, together covering an area of almost 26,000km.
BP holds a Alaska, executed commercial agreements and launched the pre-front 100% interest in the blocks and the Uruguayan state oil company, end engineering and design pre-FEED phase of the project, which is ANCAP, has a right to participate in up to 30% of any discoveries.
BP has 2 expected to extend into 2016 with gross spend more than $500 already completed its commitment to acquire over 13,000km of 3D million.
A decision point for progressing to front end engineering and seismic data and 3,000km of 2D seismic data by December 2015. design FEED phase of the project will be considered at the In Trinidad & Tobago, BP holds licences and production-sharing contracts completion of the pre-FEED phase.
In July the Alaska LNG project covering 1.8 million acres offshore of the east and north-east coast.
Facilities submitted an export application with the US Department of Energy, include 13 offshore platforms and two onshore processing facilities.
and in September submitted a pre-file notice of application with the Production is comprised of gas and associated liquids.
In August, the Juniper Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC, which was approved project was sanctioned and subsequently a key contract for the by the FERC later that month.
The US Department of Energy issued a development of the project was awarded.
Free Trade Agreement Export Authorization to the project in November.
First commercial gas is planned between 2023 and 2025.
BP also has a shareholding in Atlantic LNG ALNG, an LNG liquefication a plant that averages 39% across four LNG trains with a combined BP owns a 49% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System TAPS.
The capacity of 15 million tonnes per annum.
BP sells gas to each of the LNG TAPS transports crude oil from Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North Slope to trains, supplying 100% of the gas for train 1, 50% for train 2, 75% for the port of Valdez in south-east Alaska.
In April 2012 the two nontrain 3 and around 67% of the gas for train 4.
All the LNG from Atlantic controlling owners of TAPS, Koch 3.08% and Unocal 1.37% gave train 1 and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties in notice to BP, ExxonMobil 21.1% and ConocoPhillips 29.1% of their the US and Europe under long-term contracts.
BPs equity LNG intention to withdraw as an owner of TAPS.
The transfer of Kochs entitlement from trains 2, 3 and 4 is marketed via BPs LNG marketing interest to the remaining owners BP, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips and trading function to markets in the US, UK, Spain and South America.
was agreed and approved by regulatory authorities and closed in July a with an effective date of August 2012.
The remaining owners and Unocal An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural gas in the formation of LNG.
214 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures challenging despite the governments clear focus on triggering economic Africa recovery and embarking on widescale national projects such as the Suez BPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Angola, Algeria, Libya, Canal.
Egypt is also holding an Economic Summit in March with the Egypt and Morocco.
attendance of major foreign investors and with the government targeting In Angola, BP is present in nine major deepwater licences offshore and is significant investments in projects across the various sectors.
Another operator in four of these.
Two of these are in production blocks 18 and key priority for the government is improving general security conditions 31, and two are in the exploration phase blocks 19 and 24.
The first and combating extremist elements in North Sinai.
exploration well on block 24 Katambi-1 is currently being drilled.
We achieved first gas from the DEKA project offshore Egypt in August Following a successful drill-stem test in May, BP had another oil and with the start of production from the Denise South-6 well.
The DEKA gas discovery in the pre-salt play of Angola in block 20 BP 30% project is centred on the Denise and Karawan gas fields in the Temsah operated by Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
This discovery the Orca-1 concession BP 50% in the East Nile.
well is the second pre-salt discovery in block 20.
The Orca-2 appraisal In September, we were awarded the El Matariya and Karawan well is currently being drilled.
concessions in Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Companys bid rounds Production commenced from the Total-operated CLOV Cravo, Lirio, through partnering 50% with Dana Gas and ENI respectively.
Orquidea and Violeta major project in Angola BP 16.67% in June.
Karawan is located in the Mediterranean Sea in the northwestern part Plateau production of 160,000 barrels of oil was achieved in September.
El Mataria is an onshore block and BP is In the first quarter the Angola LNG plant BP 13.6% produced and sold an operator.
BP and its partners have committed to invest a total of a number of LNG cargoes, along with its first LPG, pressurised butane $105 million in the blocks during the first phase.
Following a technical incident in April 2014, BP started drilling the Atoll-1 HPHT deepwater exploration well, the which caused an unplanned interruption to production, the plants second exploration well in the North Damietta offshore concession, in planned shutdown was brought forward to address both technical and September.
Well performance is currently exceeding target pace and plant capacity issues.
The plant is projected to re-start fully in 2016. drilling operations are expected to be completed in second half of 2015.
In December, several fields in Angola were subject to impairment West Nile Delta Project Concessions amendment was approved by the charges, primarily as a result of changes in estimates of reserves and Egyptian cabinet in December and will now proceed to the ratification resources and decreases in near-term oil price assumptions.
The total process in 2015. impairment charge during the year was $968 million, of which the In Morocco, BP has a non-operating interest in each of the Essaouira Pluto, Saturno, Vnus and Marte PSVM area was subject to an Offshore BP 45%, Foum Assaka Offshore BP 26.325% and impairment charge of $859 million.
Tarhazoute Offshore BP 45% blocks in the Agadir Basin, offshore In Algeria, BP, Sonatrach and Statoil are partners in the In Salah BP Morocco.
The exploration periods run until 2017.
33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects which supply gas to the Asia domestic and European markets.
BPs total assets in Algeria at 31 December 2014 were $1,717 million $290 million current and BP has activities in Western Indonesia, China, Azerbaijan, Oman, Abu $1,427 million non-current.
The security assessment following the terrorist attack in January 2013 In Western Indonesia, BP participates in LNG exports through our interest in has been completed.
Virginia Indonesia Company LLC VICO, the operator of Sanga-Sanga BP also had an appraisal and exploitation agreement with Sonatrach in PSA BP 38% supplying gas to the Bontang LNG plant in Kalimantan.
the Bourarhat Sud block, located to the south west of In Amenas.
This Sanga-Sanga currently delivers around 14% of the total gas feed to Bontang, asset was in the exploration phase and was BP-operated.
The Indonesias largest LNG export facility and one of the worlds largest LNG Bourarhat agreement with Sonatrach expired on 23 September 2014. plants.
It has a capacity of 22 million tonnes of LNG per annum and output of Sonatrach and BP were granted a six-month period to negotiate new more than 18 million tonnes.
terms and those negotiations commenced in the fourth quarter.
With In addition, BP participates in the Sanga-Sanga CBM PSA BP 38%.
insufficient certainty of success, BP recorded an exploration write-off Another CBM PSA, Tanjung IV BP 44%, in the Barito basin of Central of $524 million.
Kalimantan, will be relinquished pending the approval from the In Libya, BP is in partnership with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA government of Indonesia.
to explore acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins, In China, during the year BP has exited blocks 42 05 BP 40.82%, 43 11 covered under the exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA BP 40.82% and 54 11 BP 100% in the South China Sea in accordance ratified in December 2007 BP 85%.
BPs total assets in Libya at with the PSAs and with government approvals.
BP has a 30% equity 31 December 2014 were $515 million $38 million current and stake in the 7 million tonnes per annum capacity Guangdong LNG $477 million non-current.
regasification and pipeline project in south-east China, making it the first BP served the National Oil Corporation with notices of force majeure on foreign partner in Chinas LNG import business.
The terminal is supplied 17 August.
This is the result of continued civil unrest in Libya, which has under a long-term contract with Australias North West Shelf venture.
made it impossible for BP to undertake its obligations under the EPSA BP and the China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC announced safely and securely.
If the period of force majeure continues for two a heads of agreement in June for the supply of up to 1.5 million tonnes of years, the EPSA may terminate if the parties have failed to reach an LNG per year over 20 years starting in 2019. agreeable arrangement.
In Azerbaijan, BP invests more than any other foreign investor, operates In Egypt, BP and its partners currently produce 10% of Egypts liquids two PSAs,  ACG BP 35.8% and Shah Deniz BP production and more than 30% of its gas production.
BPs total assets in 28.83%, and also holds other exploration leases.
Egypt at 31 December 2014 were $7,715 million, of which $2,266 million In 2012 further EU and US regulations concerning restrictive measures were current and $5,449 million were non-current.
The current assets against Iran were issued.
The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas include trade receivables and Egyptian pound denominated cash.
marketing and pipeline entities, in which Naftiran Intertrade Co. Ltd Egypt is moving forward towards the completion of the political roadmap NICO has an interest, were excluded from the main operative set out in June 2013.
The government is committed to completing the provisions of the EU regulations as well as from the application of the current transitional period and has already completed the first two new US sanctions, and fall within the exception for certain natural gas milestones, the adoption of the Constitution by a majority vote earlier this projects under Section 603 of the US Iran Threat Reduction and Syria year and the election of President Al Sisi in June.
These are to be Human Rights Act of 2012.
The Shah Deniz Stage 2 project referred to followed by Parliament elections scheduled to take place through two below is also excluded from the EU and US sanctions.
For further phases in March and April of 2015.
Economic conditions remain information see International trade sanctions on page 238.
The West Chirag platform came online in January, completing the Chirag oil project BP 35.8%, sanctioned in 2010.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 215 In March BP completed the purchase of an additional 3.33% equity in on the new pricing policy and the premiums for future developments Shah Deniz and the South Caucasus Pipeline SCP from Statoil for to emerge in due course.
In Iraq, BP holds a 47.6% working interest and is the lead contractor in A ceremony to mark the groundbreaking for the Southern Gas Corridor the Rumaila technical service contract.
Rumaila is one of the worlds was held in September as part of the BP-operated Azerbaijan largest oil fields, comprising five producing reservoirs.
BPs total assets in International Operating Company celebration of the 20th anniversary of Iraq at 31 December 2014 were $1,606 million $1,235 million current the  production-sharing contract.
This is a and $371 million non-current.
milestone in the realization of the Shah Deniz Stage 2 project, which is In September we signed an amendment to the Rumaila contract terms, planned to deliver gas through the Southern Corridor comprising some which include, among other things, the increase of BP equity and a five- 3,500 kilometres of pipeline to customers in Georgia, Turkey, Greece, year term extension until 2034.
BP is also working with the government Bulgaria and Italy.
of Iraq and North Oil Company on studies in support of the stabilization In December BP and the State Oil Company of the Republic of and redevelopment of two producing reservoirs of the Kirkuk field.
Azerbaijan signed a new PSA to jointly explore for and develop Despite instability and sectarian violence in the north and west of the potential prospects in the shallow water area around the Absheron country, BP operations are continuing in the south.
Peninsula in the Azerbaijan sector of the Caspian Sea.
BP, as operator, holds a 30.1% interest in and manages the  Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline transports oil from We are active in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
the BP-operated ACG oilfield and gas condensate from the Shah Deniz In Australia, BP is one of seven participants in the North West Shelf gas field in the Caspian Sea, along with other third-party oil, to the NWS venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, eastern Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
The BTC pipeline has a capacity condensate, LPG and oil since the 1980s.
Six partners including BP hold of 1mmboe d with average throughput in 2014 of 712mboe d. an equal 16.67% interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78% BP is technical operator of, and currently holds a 28.83% interest in, the interest in the gas and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner 693-kilometre SCP.
The pipeline takes gas from Azerbaijan through Georgia owning the remaining 5.32%.
BP also has a 16.67% interest in some of to the Turkish border and has a capacity of 134mboe d with average the NWS oil reserves and related infrastructure.
The NWS venture is throughput in 2014 of 111mboe d. BP as operator of Azerbaijan currently the principal supplier to the domestic market in Western International Operating Company also operates the Western Export Route Australia and one of the largest LNG export projects in Asia, with five Pipeline which transports ACG oil to the Black Sea coast of Georgia.
BPs net share of the capacity of NWS LNG In Oman, BP currently has appraisal programmes and development trains 1-5 is 2.7 million tonnes of LNG per annum.
In December 2013, BP and the Sultanate of Oman government BP also holds a 5.375% interest in the Jansz-lo field and 12.5% interests signed a gas sales agreement and an amended EPSA for the in the Geryon, Orthrus and Maenad fields which are part of the Greater development of the Khazzan field in block 61 with BP as operator.
BPs Jansz-Io interest is in the reserves and wells which In February the Sultan of Oman issued a royal decree approving the will provide the initial feed gas to the Gorgon LNG plant scheduled to amended EPSA and the government acquired a 40% stake in block 61 commence production late 2015. through Makarim Gas Development LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of BP holds a 70% interest in four deepwater offshore exploration blocks in the state-owned Oman Oil Company Exploration & Production.
BP, as operator, expects to drill four deepwater In October we announced the award of two long-term drilling contracts wells beginning in 2016 in this frontier exploration basin located within for the Oman Khazzan project in block 61.
KCA Deutag was awarded the Great Australian Bight off the coast of southern Australia.
more than $400 million in contracts for the construction and operation BP is also one of five participants in the Browse LNG venture operated of five new build land rigs for Khazzan.
Omans Abraj Energy Service by Woodside and holds a 17% interest.
Browse is currently in the prewas awarded more than $330 million in contracts to supply three FEED stage of an offshore floating LNG development and remains drilling rigs for the full field development of the Khazzan project.
Gas subject to regulatory, joint operation and internal BP approvals.
production is expected to start in late 2017.
We accessed new acreage in the offshore Outer Canning basin in In Abu Dhabi, we had equity interests of 9.5% and 14.67% in onshore Western Australia in September by farming in to two exploration and offshore concessions respectively in 2013.
The Abu Dhabi onshore permits BP 21%.
concession expired in January 2014 with a consequent impact on production of approximately 140mboe d. BP participated in the tender In Eastern Indonesia, BP operates the Tangguh LNG plant.
Tangguh BP 37.16%, is located in Papua Barat.
The asset comprises 14 process for the new onshore concession.
producing wells, two offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant We also have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas with two production trains.
It has a total capacity of 7.6 million tonnes of Liquefaction Company, which in 2014 supplied 5.9 million tonnes of LNG LNG per annum.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in Indonesia, 305.7bcfe regasified.
China, South Korea, Mexico and Japan through a combination of long, In India, BP has a 30% interest in four oil and gas PSAs operated by medium and short-term contracts.
Plans for a third train remain on track.
Reliance Industries Limited RIL, and is a partner with RIL in a 50:50 joint In August BP announced that the government of Indonesia, through the operation for the sourcing and marketing of gas in India.
Ministry of Environment, approved the Tangguh expansion project During the year a number of activities continued to manage the integrated environment and social impact assessment and issued the existing producing fields in the KG D6 block, with a focus on sustaining project BP 37.16% an environmental permit.
This was followed by the production and extending the life of these fields.
Activities included award of dual onshore FEED to two separate consortia, announced in well work-overs, side-tracks and new wells as well as progress on the October.
In addition, BP and the Tangguh partners signed a long-term installation of additional compression capacity.
LNG sales agreement with PT PLN Persero, Indonesias state-owned In October the government of India announced new gas price electricity company, to supply up to 1.5 million tonnes of LNG each year guidelines for domestic gas, effective 1 November 2014.
Supply will initially be provided from Tangguhs guidelines replace the earlier guidelines issued by the government in existing LNG trains.
The agreement commits 40% of annual production January 2014. from train 3 to the domestic market.
During the year we recorded an $810-million charge comprising a BP has 100% interests in two deepwater PSAs: West Aru I and II and $415 million impairment charge and $395 million exploration write-off 32% interest in the Chevron-operated West Papua I and Ill PSAs.
These to write down the value ascribed to block KG D6 in India as part of the PSAs will be relinquished pending approval from the government of acquisition of upstream interests from RIL in 2011.
as a result of uncertainty in the future long-term gas price outlook, following the introduction of a new formula for Indian gas prices, although we do see the commencement of a transition to marketbased pricing as a positive step.
We expect further clarity 216 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
