Shareholder information next AGM that the Scrip Programme be renewed for a further three This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the years.
The operation of the Scrip Programme is always subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, directors decision to make the Scrip Programme offer available in existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as the Scrip Programme in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US paid automatically instead.
and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial further assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 48 and other related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy on page 13 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 211.
For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the company per ADS for the past five years.
owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
a Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares Dividends per ADS March June September December Total generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation 2010 UK pence 52.07 52.07 other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
US cents 84 84 Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing US cents 42 42 42 42 168 of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in US cents 48 48 48 54 198 respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.40 Taxation of dividends US cents 54 54 54 57 219 2014 UK pence 34.24 34.84 35.76 38.26 143.10 UK taxation US cents 57 58.5 58.5 60 234 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or in Financial statements Note 8. trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A UK foreign exchange controls on dividends shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain dividend.
countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those US federal income taxation sanctions adopted by the UK government which implement resolutions A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross of the Security Council of the United Nations.
amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder that foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding period in the shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions adopted by the UK beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding government which implement resolutions of the Security Council of the period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the United Nations.
ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK Shareholder taxation information withholding tax.
Accordingly, a US holder will include only the dividend This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK actually received from the company in gross income for US federal taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder income tax purposes, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
holder to a foreign tax credit.
It does not apply, however, interalia to members of special classes of For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in holders some of which may be subject to other rules, including: taxincome when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the exempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in securities, traders in Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction holdings, investors liable for alternative minimum tax, holders that, generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock, from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or outside the US and generally will be passive category income or, in the conversion transaction, holders that purchase or sell the shares or ADSs case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders treated separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
In addition, if a credit limitation.
partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar rate on below.
the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
Generally, any US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 245
