Shareholder information Fees and charges payable by ADSs holders The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows: Type of service Depositary actions Fee Depositing or substituting the underlying Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion shares deposits and issuances in respect of: thereof evidenced by the new ADSs Share distributions, stock splits, rights, merger.
Exchange of securities or other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited securities.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being an amount $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that thereof.
would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities.
Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion securities.
thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable are subject to Stock transfer or other taxes and governmental charges.
agreement between the company Delivery by cable, telex, electronic and facsimile and the Depositary by billing holders transmission.
or by deducting charges from one or Transfer or registration fees, if applicable, for the more cash dividends or other cash registration of transfers of underlying shares.
Expenses of the Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency.
Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary or Fees and payments made by the Depositary termination of the ADR programme by the company, the company is to the issuer required to repay the Depositary amounts reimbursed and or expenses paid to or on behalf of the company during the 12-month period prior to The Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses notice of removal or termination.
related to the companys ADS programme and incurred by the company in connection with the ADS programme arising during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Depositary reimbursed to the company, or paid Documents on display amounts on the companys behalf to third parties, or waived its fees BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 and BP Strategic Report 2014 and expenses, of $3,612,749.32 for the year ended 31 December 2014. are available online at bp.
To obtain a hard copy of BPs complete audited financial statements, free of charge, UK based The table below sets out the types of expenses that the Depositary has agreed to reimburse and the fees it has agreed to waive for standard shareholders should contact BP Distribution Services by calling 44 0 870 241 3269 or by emailing @bp.
If costs associated with the administration of the ADS programme relating to the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Depositary has also paid based in the US or Canada shareholders should contact Issuer Direct by calling 1 888 301 2505 or by emailing bpreports@precisionir.
certain expenses directly to third parties on behalf of the company.
Amount reimbursed, waived or paid The company is subject to the information requirements of the US directly to third parties for the year Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In Category of expense reimbursed, ended 31 December 2014 accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual waived or paid directly to third parties $ Report and Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is NYSE listing fees reimbursed 400,000.00 possible to read and copy documents that have been filed with the SEC Service fees and out of pocket expenses at its headquarters located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, a waived 2,223,141.13 US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SEC-0330.
In addition, BPs SEC filings are available to the public at the SECs website.
BP b Broker fees reimbursed 901,224.03 discloses on its website at bp.
com  and Other third-party mailing costs in this report see Corporate governance practices Form 20-F Item 16G c reimbursed 88,384.16 on page 239 significant ways if any in which its corporate governance Total 3,612,749.32 practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE a Includes fees in relation to transfer agent costs and costs of the BP Scrip Dividend Programme listing standards.
operated by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. b Broker reimbursements are fees payable to Broadridge for the distribution of hard copy material to ADR beneficial holders in the Depository Trust Company.
Corporate materials include information related to shareholders meetings and related voting instructions.
These fees are SEC approved.
c Payment of fees to Precision IR for investor support.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 251
