As such, the way in which BP makes Controls and procedures determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors be determined by the board to be independent in character and The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the company files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs listing standards.
information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as Committees appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic management, including the group chief executive and chief financial US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
BP assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been independent, in the manner described above.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls committee reports on page 64.
BP has not, therefore, adopted separate and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated charters for each committee.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of subsidiaries.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these be detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the reasonable assurance standards.
independent auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put The companys management, with the participation of the companys forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief accounting or related financial management expertise.
The board executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys determined that Brendan Nelson possessed such expertise and also disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in assurance level.
both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit committee report on page 64.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee financial Managements report on internal control over financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. reporting Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and the principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting purposes take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are in accordance with IFRS.
As of the end of the 2014 fiscal year, management conducted an Code of ethics assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of reporting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
Based on this assessment, management has has adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of board governance principles that address the conduct of directors.
addition BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers as The companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies required by the SEC.
BP considers that these codes and policies address and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions Code of ethics are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made chief financial officer, group controller, general auditor and chief only in accordance with authorizations of management and the directors accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the of BP: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs assets been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to any officers.
that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2014 has been BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees, audited by Ernst & Young, an independent registered public accounting officers and members of the board.
This was updated and published in firm, as stated in their report appearing on page 95 of BP Annual Report July 2014. and Form 20-F 2014.
240 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
