movement in the share price either way, the LSE may impose a Share prices and listings temporary halt in the trading of that companys shares in the order book Markets and market prices to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a market-maker, The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock via a member firm, outside the electronic order book.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are In the US, BPs securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.
NYSE in the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary the Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the principal office is 4 New York Plaza, Floor 12, New York, NY, 10004, US.
Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the NYSE.
for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose ADSs are evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific may be issued in either certificated or book entry form.
prices may be sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and a principal.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs for book.
When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is the periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest executed and automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous intra-day sales prices as reported on the LSE and NYSE, respectively.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours Dividends trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the BPs current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly basis on its market prices for ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to ordinary shares.
arbitrage among the various markets, although differences may exist fromtimetotime.
Its policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary On 17 February 2015, 883,647,170.5 ADSs equivalent to approximately shares will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The rate of 5,301,883,023 ordinary shares or some 29.07% of the total issued exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding and average of the market exchange rates in London over the four business were held by approximately 95,858 ADS holders.
Of these, about days prior to the sterling equivalent announcement date.
The directors 94,687 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the may choose to declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling registered holders of ADSs represents some 979,038 underlying equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys intention to change its holders.
current policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
On 17 February 2015, there were approximately 270,163 ordinary Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company on shareholders.
Of these shareholders, around 1,570 had registered ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,005,034 ordinary shares.
Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip Programme was approved by and other nominees, the number of holders in the US may not be shareholders in 2010.
It enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS representative of the number of beneficial holders of their respective holders to elect to receive dividends by way of new fully paid BP country of residence.
ordinary shares or ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
The company intends to propose a resolution to the shareholders at the 244 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
