establishing a second commitment period to run until the end of 2020. similar rules targeting other sectors and potential impacts on However, it will not include the US, Canada, Japan and Russia and thus combined heat and power installations.
covers only about 15% of global emissions.
A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will affect our operations.
California implemented a low-carbon fuel standard in The 2014 conference COP20 in Lima adopted the Lima Call for Climate 2010.
The California cap and trade programme started in January 2012 Action.
This included the elements of a negotiating text for a new with the first auctions of carbon allowances held in November 2012 international agreement, as specified in Durban in 2011, to be finalized at and obligations commencing from 2013.
The California cap and trade COP21 in Paris in December 2015.
This text covers long-term ambitions programme was broadened to include transport fuels on 1 January and pathways and a framework for reaching it.
COP20 also agreed on the 2015. rules for providing and assessing information about each countrys In the recent US-China joint announcement on climate change Intended Nationally Determined Contributions INDCs towards reaching addressing post-2020 actions, the US committed to reducing its GHG the overall ambition.
The worlds three largest emitters China, the US emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level by 2025.
Achieving these and the EU have all announced their intentions to limit their GHG reductions will require expanded efforts to reduce emissions, which emissions.
likely will include regulatory measures.
China announced it intends to Additional, more stringent, measures can be expected in the future.
These achieve a peak in CO2 emissions around 2030, with the intention to try measures could increase BPs production costs for certain products, to peak earlier and to increase the non-fossil fuel share of all energy to increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products with loweraround 20% by 2030.
Currently, China has targets to reduce carbon carbon intensity, and affect the sales and specifications of many of BPs intensity of GDP 40-45% below 2005 levels by 2020 and increase the products.
Current and announced measures and developments potentially share of non-fossil fuels in total energy consumption from 7.5% in affecting BPs businesses include the following: 2005 to 15% by 2020.
The EU has agreed to an overall GHG reduction target of 20% by 2020.
China is operating emission trading pilots in five cities and two To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package of regulatory measures provinces.
A number of BP joint venture companies in China are has been adopted that includes: a collective national reduction target participating in these schemes.
The Chinese government is also for emissions not covered by the EU ETS: binding national renewable considering a plan for a national cap and trade system in 2016. energy targets to double usage of renewable energy sources in the EU South Africa has delayed implementation of a carbon tax on carbon including at least a 10% share of renewable energy in the transport intensive emitters until 2016. sector: a legal framework to promote carbon capture and storage South Korea commenced its carbon emissions trading scheme in CCS : and a revised EU ETS Phase 3.
EU ETS revisions include a GHG January 2015. reduction of 21% from 2005 levels: a significant increase in allowance For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate auctioning: an expansion in the scope of the EU ETS to encompass change issues and for details of BPs GHG reporting see Environment more industrial sectors and gases and no free allocation for electricity and society on page 42. generation or production but benchmarked free allocation for energyintensive and trade-exposed industrial sectors.
EU energy efficiency Legal proceedings policy is currently implemented via national energy efficiency action plans and the Energy Efficiency Directive adopted in 2012.
The EU has Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill also recently agreed to the framework of the 2030 Climate and Energy BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and potential Policies with a goal of at least a 40% reduction in GHGs from 1990 and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the 20 April measures to achieve a 27% share of renewable energy and a 27% 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon increase in energy efficiency.
The GHG reduction target is to be and resulting oil spill the Incident, together with the potential cost of achieved by a 43% reduction of emissions from sectors covered by the implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be fully EU ETS, and a 30% GHG reduction by Member States for all other estimated at this time, but they have had and could continue to have a GHG emissions.
material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, New Zealands emission trading scheme NZ ETS commenced on financial performance, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns 1 July 2010 for transport fuels, industrial processes and stationary and or implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the US.
New Zealand also employs a portfolio of mandatory and potential liabilities may continue to have a material adverse effect on the voluntary complementary measures aimed at GHG reductions.
groups results and financial condition.
See Financial statements Note 2 Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, has regulations targeting for information regarding the financial impact of the Incident.
large final emitters sites with over 100,000 tonnes CO2e per annum BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and various other BP with intensity targets of 2% improvement per year up to 12%.
entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named Compliance is possible via direct reductions, the purchase of offsets or as defendants in approximately 3,000 pending civil lawsuits relating to the payment of C$15 tonne to a technology fund.
the Incident and further actions are likely to be brought.
BPXP was lease In the US, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA continues to operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico pursue regulatory measures to address GHGs under the Clean Air Act Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of CAA.
The other working interest owners at the time of the Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX EPA regulations impose light duty vehicle emissions standards for Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned GHGs and permitting requirements for certain large GHG emission and operated by certain affiliates of Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank sources.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the Under the GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGMRR, annual Incident have generally been brought in US federal and state courts.
The reports on GHG emissions must be filed.
In addition to direct plaintiffs include individuals, corporations, insurers and governmental emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers entities and many of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids and lawsuits assert, among others, claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 GHGs are required to report product volumes and notional GHG OPA 90, claims for personal injury in connection with the Incident itself emissions as if these products were fully combusted.
and the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, The EPA proposed regulations establishing GHG emission limits breach of contract and violations of statutes.
Many of the lawsuits assert for new and modified power plants in September 2013.
In June claims which are excluded from the Economic and Property Damages 2014, the EPA proposed a very complex Clean Energy Plan Settlement Agreement discussed below, including claims for recovery Regulation that establishes GHG reduction requirements, at a for losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 federal deepwater drilling state or regional level, for existing power plants.
The EPA moratoria and or the related permitting process.
The lawsuits seek announced its intention to finalize both rules in or around June various remedies including compensation to injured workers, recovery for 2015.
These rules are important due to potential impacts on commercial losses and property damage, compensation for personal electricity prices, reliability of electricity supply, precedents for injuries and medical monitoring, claims for environmental damage, 228 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures remediation costs, claims for unpaid wages, injunctive and declaratory the stability testing on the foamed cement used at the Macondo well: for relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
Purported classes of negligence or, if established by the evidence at trial, gross negligence claimants include residents of the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, based on Halliburtons performance of its professional services, including Alabama, Florida and Texas: property owners and rental agents, cementing and mud logging services: and for contribution and fishermen and persons dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat subrogation for amounts that BP has paid in responding to the Incident, owners and deck hands, marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping as well as in OPA 90 assessments and in payments to the plaintiffs.
BP interests, restaurant and hotel owners, cruise lines and others who are filed a similar complaint against Halliburton in federal court in the property and or business owners alleged to have suffered economic loss: Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, and the action was and response workers and residents claiming injuries due to exposure to transferred to MDL 2179 on 4 May 2011. the components of oil and or chemical dispersants.
Among other claims Also on 20 April 2011, Halliburton filed claims in the Limitation Action arising from the spill response efforts, lawsuits have been filed claiming seeking indemnification from BP for claims brought against Halliburton in that additional payments are due by BP under certain Master Vessel that action.
Halliburton also asserted a claim for negligence, gross Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of negligence and wilful misconduct against BP and others.
Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the Incident.
Purported class action and individual lawsuits have also been On 31 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and Halliburtons indemnity filed in US state and federal courts, as well as one suit in Canada, against motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for thirdBP entities and or various current and former officers and directors party claims for compensatory damages resulting from pollution that did alleging, among other things, shareholder derivative claims, securities not originate from property or equipment of Halliburton located above the fraud claims, violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act surface of the land or water, regardless of whether the claims result from ERISA and contractual and quasi-contractual claims related to the Halliburtons gross negligence.
The court, however, ruled that BP does cancellation of the dividend on 16 June 2010. not owe Halliburton indemnity to the extent that Halliburton is held liable for punitive damages or for civil penalties under the Clean Water Act.
The Many of the lawsuits pending in federal court have been consolidated by court further held that BPs obligation to defend Halliburton for third-party the Federal Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation into two multi-district claims does not require BP to fund Halliburtons defence of third-party litigation proceedings, one in federal district court in Houston for the claims at this time, nor does it include Halliburtons expenses in proving securities, derivative and ERISA cases MDL 2185 and another in federal its right to indemnity.
The court deferred ruling on whether BP is required district court in New Orleans for the remaining cases MDL 2179. to indemnify Halliburton for any penalties or fines under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.
It also deferred ruling on whether MDL 2179 and related matters Halliburton acted so as to invalidate the indemnity by breaching its DoJ Action: liability limitation-, contributionand indemnity-related contract with BP, by committing fraud, or by committing another act that proceedings: and Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault materially increased the risk to BP or prejudiced the rights of BP as an Allocation indemnitor.
On 4 September 2014, as part of its findings of fact and On 13 May 2010, Transocean and certain affiliates filed a complaint under conclusions of law for Phase one of the Trial of Liability Limitation admiralty law in federal court in Texas seeking exoneration from or Exoneration and Fault Allocation in MDL 2179 Phase 1 Ruling, the court limitation of liability as managing owners and operators of the Deepwater ruled that Halliburtons indemnity and release clauses in its contract with Horizon.
That action the Limitation Action was consolidated with MDL BP are valid and enforceable against BP.
On 30 May 2011, Transocean filed claims against BP in the DoJ Action The US filed a civil complaint in MDL 2179 against BPXP and others on alleging that BPAPC had breached its contract with Transocean Holdings 15 December 2010 the DoJ Action.
The complaint seeks an order LLC by not agreeing to indemnify Transocean against liability related to finding liability under OPA 90 and civil penalties under the Clean Water the Incident.
Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state law, Act and sets forth a purported reservation of rights on behalf of the US to maritime law and OPA 90 for contribution.
amend the complaint or file additional complaints seeking various remedies under various US federal laws and statutes.
On 1 November 2011, Transocean filed a motion for partial summary judgment on certain claims filed in the Limitation Action and the DoJ On 18 February 2011, Transocean filed a third-party complaint against BP, Action between BP and Transocean, seeking an order that would bar the US government, and other corporations involved in the Incident, BPs contribution claims against Transocean and require BP to defend naming those entities as formal parties in the Limitation Action.
On 20 and indemnify Transocean against all pollution claims, including those April 2011, Transocean filed claims in the Limitation Action alleging that resulting from any gross negligence, and from civil fines and penalties BP had breached BP America Production Companys BPAPC contract sought by the government.
On 7 December 2011, BP filed a crosswith Transocean Holdings LLC by BP not agreeing to indemnify motion for summary judgment seeking an order that BP is not required to Transocean against liability related to the Incident and by not paying indemnify Transocean for any civil fines and penalties sought by the certain invoices.
Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state government or for punitive damages.
On 26 January 2012, the judge law, maritime law, and OPA 90 for contribution.
ruled on BPs and Transoceans indemnity motions, holding that BP is On 20 April 2011, BP filed claims against Cameron International required to indemnify Transocean for third-party claims for compensatory Corporation Cameron, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. Halliburton, damages resulting from pollution originating beneath the surface of the and Transocean in the DoJ Action, seeking contribution for any water, regardless of whether the claim results from Transoceans strict assessments against BP under OPA 90 based on those entities fault.
On liability, negligence or gross negligence.
The court, however, ruled that 20 June 2011, Cameron and Halliburton moved to dismiss BPs claims BP is not required to indemnify Transocean for such claims to the extent against them in the DoJ Action.
BPs claim against Cameron has been Transocean is held liable for punitive damages or for civil penalties under resolved pursuant to settlement described below, but Halliburtons the Clean Water Act, or if Transocean acted with intentional or wilful motion remains pending.
misconduct in excess of gross negligence.
The court further held that Also on 20 April 2011, BP asserted claims against Cameron, Halliburton BPs obligation to defend Transocean for third-party claims does not and Transocean in the Limitation Action.
BPs claims against Transocean require BP to fund Transoceans defence of third-party claims at this include breach of contract, unseaworthiness of the Deepwater Horizon time, nor does it include Transoceans expenses in proving its right to vessel, negligence or gross negligence and or gross fault as may be indemnity.
The court deferred a final ruling on the question of whether established at trial based upon the evidence, contribution and Transocean breached its drilling contract with BP so as to invalidate the subrogation for costs including those arising from litigation claims contracts indemnity clause.
On 4 September 2014, as part of its Phase 1 resulting from the Incident, as well as a declaratory claim that Transocean Ruling, the court ruled that Transoceans indemnity and release clauses is wholly or partly at fault for the Incident and responsible for its in its contract with BP are valid and enforceable against BP.
proportionate share of the costs and damages.
BP asserted claims On 8 December 2011, the US brought a motion for partial summary against Halliburton for fraud and fraudulent concealment based on judgment in the DoJ Action seeking, among other things, an order finding Halliburtons misrepresentations to BP concerning, among other things, that BPXP, Transocean and Anadarko are strictly liable for a civil penalty Defined on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 229 under Section 311 b 7 A of the Clean Water Act.
On 22 February 2012, addressed issues arising out of the conduct of various parties allegedly the judge ruled on motions filed in the DoJ Action by the US, Anadarko, relevant to the loss of well control at the Macondo well, the ensuing fire and Transocean seeking early rulings regarding the liability of BPXP, and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon on 20 April 2010, the sinking of Anadarko and Transocean under OPA 90 and the Clean Water Act, but the vessel on 22 April 2010 and the initiation of the release of oil from the limited the order to addressing the discharge of hydrocarbons occurring Deepwater Horizon or the Macondo well during those time periods, under the surface of the water.
Regarding OPA 90, the judge held that including whether BP or any other party was grossly negligent.
After the BPXP and Anadarko are responsible parties under OPA 90 with regard to completion of post-trial briefing, BP moved for leave to supplement the the subsurface discharge.
The judge ruled that BPXP and Anadarko have Phase 1 record to include Halliburtons agreement to plead guilty to joint and several liability under OPA 90 for removal costs and damages destroying evidence relating to Halliburtons internal examination of the for such discharge, but did not rule on whether such liability under OPA Incident and the US governments press release announcing the 90 is unlimited.
While the judge held that Transocean is not a responsible Halliburton plea agreement.
The US government, the PSC and Halliburton party under OPA 90 for subsurface discharge, the judge left open the also submitted briefs addressing the implications of Halliburtons plea question of whether Transocean may be liable under OPA 90 for removal agreement.
On 4 September 2014 the court granted BPs motion in part, costs for such discharge as the owner operator of the Deepwater supplementing the Phase 1 trial record with the Halliburton plea Horizon.
Regarding the Clean Water Act, the judge held that the agreement, the US press release, and certain other documents related to subsurface discharge was from the Macondo well, rather than from the Halliburtons criminal plea.
The court also found that the simulations at Deepwater Horizon, and that BPXP and Anadarko are liable for civil issue in Halliburtons criminal plea, if not deleted by Halliburton penalties under Section 311 of the Clean Water Act as owners of the employees, would have indicated that using 6 centralizers, as opposed to well.
Anadarko, BPXP and the US each appealed to the US Court of 21, would not have caused cement channeling in the Macondo well and Appeals for the Fifth Circuit the Fifth Circuit, and on 4 June 2014 the that Halliburtons deletion of the simulations was done intentionally and Fifth Circuit unanimously affirmed the district courts decision.
2014, Anadarko and BPXP filed petitions requesting that all active judges On 4 September 2014, the court issued its Phase 1 Ruling.
The court of the Fifth Circuit review the 4 June 2014 decision.
On 9 January 2015, found that BPXP, BPAPC, Transocean Holdings LLC, Transocean the Fifth Circuit issued an order denying the petition for rehearing, on a Deepwater Inc. Transocean Offshore Deepwater Drilling Inc. 7-6 vote.
Absent an extension, BPXPs deadline for seeking US Supreme Transocean Entities, and Halliburton are each liable under general Court review is 9 April 2015. maritime law for the blowout, explosion, and oil spill from the Macondo On 18 December 2012, Transocean filed a motion seeking an early ruling well.
The court found that the conduct of BPXP and BPAPC was reckless, that it is not liable in connection with claims for compensatory or punitive and it apportioned to them 67% of the fault for the blowout, explosion, damages, or claims for contribution, brought by private, state, or local and oil spill.
The court found that the conduct of the Transocean Entities government entities and based on the subsurface discharge of oil.
was negligent and apportioned to them 30% of the fault for the blowout, Transoceans motion has been fully briefed but remains pending.
The court found that Halliburtons conduct was negligent and apportioned to it 3% of the fault for the blowout, explosion, Also on 18 December 2012, Transocean filed a motion seeking an early and oil spill.
ruling that it is not liable in connection with punitive damages claims brought by members of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement The district court ruled that under Fifth Circuit precedent BPXP and Class for a description of the Economic and Property Damages BPAPC cannot be liable for punitive damages under general maritime Settlement Agreement, see below.
On 20 December 2012, Transocean law, but to the extent the standards of the First Circuit or Ninth Circuit filed a motion seeking an early ruling that it is not liable in connection Courts of Appeals would apply to a particular claim, the court found that with BPs claims for reimbursement of payments made under the BPXP would be liable for punitive damages under those rules.
Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement and BPs With respect to the US claims against BPXP under the Clean Water Act, separate claims for spill-related damages, such as lost profits from the the district court found that the discharge of oil was the result of BPXPs Macondo well, which claims were assigned by BP to the Economic and gross negligence and wilful misconduct and that BPXP is therefore Property Damages Settlement Class.
On 17 January 2013, Halliburton subject to enhanced civil penalties.
The court further found that BPXP filed motions seeking early rulings that it is not liable in connection with was an operator and person in charge of the Macondo well and the punitive damages claims brought by members of the Economic and Deepwater Horizon vessel for the purposes of the Clean Water Act.
Property Damages Settlement Class: that it is not liable in connection The district court did not find BP p. l. c. to be at fault in connection with with any contribution claim for punitive damages, whether asserted by the blowout, explosion, and oil spill, and it ruled that BP p. l. c. Transocean BP or by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class as BPs Ltd. and Triton Asset Leasing GmbH are not liable under general assignee: and that it is not liable in connection with claims assigned by maritime law.
BP to the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class.
Transoceans and Halliburtons motions have been fully briefed but The district court ruled that Transocean Entities are not entitled to limit remain pending.
liability under the Limitation of Liability Act and that they are liable to the US for removal costs under OPA 90.
On 1 March 2013, Transocean sought the district courts leave to supplement its pleadings to include an affirmative defence asserting that In addition, the district court ruled that the indemnity and release clauses BPs representations regarding the flow rate at the Macondo well in BPs contracts with Halliburton and Transocean Entities are valid and constituted an intervening and superseding cause of the oil spill for the enforceable against BP and granted BPs motion to supplement the majority of its duration.
Transoceans defence claims that BP fraudulently Phase 1 trial record with Halliburtons agreement to plead guilty to misrepresented and concealed information regarding the flow rate at the destroying evidence relating to Halliburtons internal examination of the Macondo well in late April and May 2010, as well as the likelihood of Incident and the US governments press release announcing the success of a top-kill approach to stopping the flow of hydrocarbons from Halliburton plea agreement.
the well, and thus prevented the implementation of alternative means of On 2 October 2014, BPXP and BPAPC filed a motion with the district source control that Transocean asserts could have capped the well as court to amend the findings in the Phase 1 Ruling, to alter or amend the early as May 2010.
Also on 1 March 2013, Halliburton filed a motion for judgment, or for a new trial on the grounds that the courts allocation of leave to amend its answers to assert a similar defence.
On 4 March fault and findings of gross negligence and wilful misconduct relied upon 2013, the court granted Transoceans motion to file amended answers, testimony which had been excluded from the evidence presented at the and it granted Halliburtons motion the following day.
Phase 1 trial and as to which BPXP and BPAPC did not have adequate Trial phases notice and opportunity to present evidence in rebuttal.
The court denied To address certain issues asserted in or relevant to the claims, BPXPs and BPAPCs motion to amend to the Phase 1 Ruling on counterclaims, cross-claims, third-party claims, and comparative fault 13 November 2014.
On 11 December 2014, BPXP and BPAPC filed a defences raised in the DoJ Action and the Limitation Action, a Trial of notice of appeal of the Phase 1 Ruling to the Fifth Circuit, and Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in MDL subsequently notices of appeal were also filed by the PSC, Transocean, 2179 on 25 February 2013.
The presentation of evidence in Phase 1 Halliburton and the State of Alabama.
230 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures Phase 2, which commenced on 30 September 2013, addressed the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement passed on 12 February 1 source control issues pertaining to the conduct or inaction of BP, 2015.
The settlement also provides that class members claiming LaterTransocean Entities or other relevant parties regarding stopping the Manifested Physical Conditions may pursue their claims through a release of hydrocarbons stemming from the Incident from 22 April 2010 mediation litigation process, but waive, among other things, the right to through to approximately 19 September 2010, and 2 quantification of seek punitive damages.
Consistent with its commitment to the Gulf, BP discharge issues pertaining to the amount of oil actually released into the has also agreed as part of the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Gulf of Mexico as a result of the Incident from the time when these to provide $105 million to the Gulf Region Health Outreach Program to releases began until the Macondo well was capped on approximately 15 improve the availability, scope and quality of healthcare in certain Gulf July 2010 and then permanently cemented shut on approximately 19 Coast communities.
This healthcare outreach programme will be September 2010.
On 15 January 2015 the district court issued its available to, and is intended to benefit, class members and other Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law for Phase 2 of the Trial of individuals in those communities.
BP has already funded $79.1 million for Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation in MDL 2179, finding projects sponsored by this programme.
that 3.19 million barrels of oil were discharged into the Gulf of Mexico Each agreement provides that class members will be compensated for and therefore subject to a Clean Water Act penalty.
In addition, the their claims on a claims-made basis, according to agreed compensation district court found that BP was not grossly negligent in its source control protocols in separate court-supervised claims processes.
On 23 February 2015, BPXP filed a notice of appeal of the Phase compensation protocols under the Economic and Property Damages 2 ruling to the Fifth Circuit.
Settlement provide for the payment of class members economic losses and property damages related to the oil spill.
In addition many economic In the penalty phase of the Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and and property damages class members will receive payments based on Fault Allocation in MDL 2179 the district court will determine the amount negotiated risk transfer premiums, which are multiplication factors of civil penalties to be assessed against BPXP and Anadarko arising under designed, in part, to compensate claimants for potential future damages the Clean Water Act based on the courts application of the penalty that are not currently known, relating to the Incident.
The Economic and factors under the Clean Water Act.
The penalty phase trial commenced Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action on 20 January 2015 and concluded on 2 February 2015.
The court has Settlement are not an admission of liability by BP.
The settlements are established a post-trial briefing schedule for the penalty phase under uncapped except for economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood which briefing is to be concluded on 24 April 2015.
BP is not currently industry under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and the aware of the timing of the district courts ruling for the penalty phase.
$105 million to be provided to the Gulf Region Health Outreach Program The district court has wide discretion in the application of statutory under the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement.
All class member settlements under the settlement agreements are MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron settlements payable under the terms of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust Trust.
BP announced settlement agreements in respect of all claims related to Other costs to be paid from the Trust include state and local government the Incident with MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron on 20 May 2011, claims, state and local response costs, natural resource damages and 17 October 2011 and 16 December 2011, respectively.
Under the related claims, and final judgments and settlements.
As at 31 December settlement agreement with MOEX, MOEX paid BP $1.065 billion and also 2014, the aggregate cash balances in the Trust and the qualified agreed to transfer all its 10% interest in the MC252 lease to BP.
Under settlement funds amounted to $5.1 billion, including $1.1 billion the settlement agreement with Anadarko, Anadarko paid BP $4 billion remaining in the Seafood Compensation Fund, from which a further and also agreed to transfer all its 25% interest in the MC252 lease to BP.
$0.5 billion partial distribution started in early 2015, and $0.4 billion held The settlement agreement with Anadarko grants Anadarko the for natural resource damage early restoration projects.
When the cash opportunity for a 12.5% participation in certain future recoveries from balances in the Trust are exhausted, payments in respect of legitimate third parties and certain insurance proceeds in the event that such claims and other costs will be made directly by BP.
See Financial recoveries and proceeds exceed $1.5 billion in aggregate.
Any such statements Note 2. payments to Anadarko are capped at a total of $1 billion.
BP agreed to The economic and property damages claims process is under court indemnify MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron for certain claims arising from supervision through the settlement claims process established by the the Incident excluding civil, criminal or administrative fines and penalties, Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
This provides that class claims for punitive damages, and certain other claims.
The settlement members release and dismiss their claims against BP not expressly agreements with MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron are not an admission of reserved by that agreement.
The Economic and Property Damages liability by any party regarding the Incident.
Settlement also provides that, to the extent permitted by law, BP assigns to the PSC certain of its claims, rights and recoveries against Transocean PSC settlements The Economic and Property Damages Settlement resolves certain and Halliburton for damages with protections such that Transocean and Halliburton cannot pass those damages through to BP.
Under the Medical economic and property damage claims, and the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement resolves certain medical claims by response workers Benefits Class Action Settlement, class members release and dismiss their claims against BP covered by that settlement, except that class members and certain Gulf Coast residents.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement includes a $2.3 billion BP commitment to help resolve do not release claims for Later-Manifested Physical Conditions.
economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry for further PSC settlements appeals information see PSC Settlements Seafood Compensation Fund below Under US federal law, there is an established procedure for determining and a $57-million fund to support continued advertising that promotes the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of class action settlements.
It also resolves property damage in certain areas Pursuant to this procedure, an extensive notice programme to the public along the Gulf Coast, as well as claims for additional payments under was implemented to explain the settlement agreements and class certain Master Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of members rights, including the right to opt out of the classes, and the the Vessels of Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response processes for making claims.
The court conducted a fairness hearing on to the Incident.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement does 8 November 2012 in which to consider, among other things, whether to not include claims made against BP by the DoJ or other federal agencies grant final approval of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement including under the Clean Water Act and for Natural Resource Damages and the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement, whether to certify the under OPA 90 or by the states and local governments.
Also excluded are classes for settlement purposes only, and the merits of any objections to certain other claims against BP, such as securities and shareholder the settlement agreements.
On 21 November 2012, the parties to the claims pending in MDL 2185, and claims based solely on the deepwater settlement filed a list of 13,123 individuals and entities who had drilling moratorium and or the related permitting process.
submitted timely requests to opt out of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class and 1,638 individuals who had submitted The Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement involves payments to timely requests to opt out of the Medical Benefits Settlement Class.
As a qualifying class members based on a matrix for certain Specified Physical result of revocations, the number of opt-outs for the Economic and Conditions, as well as a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation Program Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action for qualifying class members.
The deadline for submitting claims under Settlement is fewer than those reported figures.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 231 Following the fairness hearing, the Economic and Property Damages revenue with corresponding variable expenses the matching issue, and Settlement was approved by the district court in a final order and 2 determining whether the settlement agreement can properly be judgment on 21 December 2012, and the Medical Benefits Class Action interpreted to permit payment to business economic loss claimants Settlement was approved in a final order and judgment on whose losses if any were not caused by the spill the causation issue.
As to the matching issue, the district court ordered the claims Subsequent to the district courts final order and judgment approving the administrator to develop a revised policy addressing the matching of Economic and Property Damages Settlement, groups of purported revenue and expenses for business economic loss claims, which would members of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class the require the matching of revenue with the expenses incurred by claimants Appellants appealed from the district courts approval of that settlement to generate that revenue, even where the revenue and expenses were to the Fifth Circuit.
Additionally, a coalition of fishing and community recorded at different times.
On 13 March 2014, the claims administrator groups the Coalition appealed to the Fifth Circuit from an order of the issued a revised matching policy reflecting this order.
On 5 May 2014, district court denying it permission to intervene in the civil action serving the district court approved the revised policy.
The PSC filed a motion on as the vehicle for the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and 27 May 2014 seeking to alter or amend the revised policy.
On 27 June further denying it permission to take discovery regarding the fairness of 2014, the district court issued an order establishing the process for the that settlement.
On 11 November 2013, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the parties and claims administrator to determine which already-determined district courts rulings in respect of the Coalition.
On 10 January 2014, a but unpaid claims should be subject to the revised policy.
panel of the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts approval of the As to the causation issue, the district court ruled that the Economic and Economic and Property Damages Settlement but left to another panel of Property Damages Settlement Agreement contained no causation the Fifth Circuit the business economic loss panel, discussed further requirement beyond the revenue and related tests set forth in an exhibit below the question of how to interpret the Economic and Property to that agreement.
The district court also held that the absence of a Damages Settlement, including the meaning of the causation further causation requirement does not defeat class certification or requirements of that agreement.
BP and several Appellants filed petitions invalidate the settlement under the federal class certification rule or requesting that all the active judges of the Fifth Circuit review the Article III of the US Constitution.
On 30 December 2013, BP filed a decision to uphold approval of the settlement.
On 19 May 2014, BPs en motion with the Fifth Circuit requesting an injunction that would prevent banc petition to the full court was denied by a vote of 8-5.
As explained in the claims administrator from making awards to claimants whose alleged further detail below, BP filed a certiorari petition with the US Supreme injuries are not fairly traceable to the spill.
In a 2-1 decision on 3 March Court on 1 August 2014, which was denied on 8 December 2014.
2014, the business economic loss panel affirmed the district courts PSC settlements Deepwater Horizon Court Supervized Settlement ruling on causation and denied BPs motion for a permanent injunction.
Program DHCSSP and interpretation of the Economic and Property BP filed a petition on 17 March 2014 requesting that all active Fifth Circuit Damages Settlement Agreement judges review the business economic loss panels 3 March 2014 The DHCSSP, the claims facility operating under the framework decision.
On 19 May 2014, the Fifth Circuit declined in a 5-8 decision to established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, grant further review of the 3 March 2014 decision.
commenced operation on 4 June 2012 under the oversight of Claims On 21 May 2014, BP asked the Fifth Circuit to stay the issuance of the Administrator Patrick Juneau.
mandate transferring the case back to the district court until the US As part of its monitoring of payments made by the court-supervized Supreme Court could decide whether to review the Fifth Circuits claims processes operated by the DHCSSP, BP identified multiple decision.
The Fifth Circuit denied BPs request for a stay on 27 May 2014, business economic loss claim determinations that appeared to result and issued its mandate on 28 May 2014.
On the same day, the district from an interpretation of the Economic and Property Damages court dissolved the injunction that had halted the processing and Settlement Agreement by that settlements claims administrator that BP payment of business economic loss claims and instructed the claims believed was incorrect.
This interpretation produced a higher number and administrator to resume the processing and payment of claims.
value of awards than the interpretation BP used in making its initial On 28 May, BP filed an application with the US Supreme Court seeking to estimate of the total cost of the Economic and Property Damages recall and stay the Fifth Circuits mandate in order to halt the processing Settlement.
Pursuant to the mechanisms in the Economic and Property and payment of business economic loss claims pending further review.
The Damages Settlement Agreement, the claims administrator sought US Supreme Court denied BPs application on 9 June 2014. clarification on this matter from the district court in MDL 2179, and on 5 March 2013 the district court affirmed the claims administrators On 1 August 2014, BP filed a petition for certiorari with the US Supreme interpretation of the agreement and rejected BPs position as it relates to Court for review of the Fifth Circuits decision upholding the district business economic loss claims the March 2013 Ruling.
courts ruling that the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement contained no causation requirement beyond the revenue and BP appealed the district courts March 2013 Ruling and related rulings to related tests set forth in an exhibit to that agreement, as well as a related the Fifth Circuit.
On 2 October 2013, the business economic loss panel of decision by a different panel of the Fifth Circuit similarly interpreting the the Fifth Circuit by a 2-1 vote reversed the district courts denial of BPs Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement to permit motion for a preliminary injunction and the district courts order affirming payment to business economic loss claimants whose losses if any were the claims administrators interpretation of the settlement, remanded the not caused by the spill.
The US Supreme Court denied BPs petition for case for further proceedings and ordered the district court to enter a certiorari on 8 December 2014.
Accordingly, the effective date of the narrowly-tailored injunction that suspended payment to claimants Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement is 8 December affected by the misinterpretation issue and who did not have actual 2014, and the final deadline for filing all claims other than those that fall injury traceable to loss from the Deepwater Horizon accident.
The into the Seafood Compensation Program is 8 June 2015. business economic loss panel also retained jurisdiction to review the district courts conclusions on remand.
On 2 September 2014, BP filed a motion seeking an order removing Patrick Juneau from his roles as claims administrator and settlement On 18 October 2013, the district court issued a preliminary injunction trustee for the Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
On that, amongst other things, required the claims administrator to 10 November 2014, the district court denied BPs motion.
BP appealed temporarily suspend payments of business economic loss claims other this decision to the Fifth Circuit on 18 November 2014. than those claims supported by sufficiently matched accrual-basis accounting or any other business economic loss claim for which the For more information about BPs current estimate of the total cost of the claims administrator determines that the matching of revenue and PSC settlements, see Financial statements Note 2. expenses is not an issue.
PSC settlements investigation of the DHCSSP On 24 December 2013, the district court ruled on the two issues On 2 July 2013, the district court in MDL 2179 appointed former federal remanded to it in October 2013 by the business economic loss panel of district court judge Louis Freeh as Special Master to lead an independent the Fifth Circuit the December 2013 Ruling : 1 requiring the claims investigation of the DHCSSP in connection with allegations of potential administrator, in administering business economic loss claims, to match ethical violations or misconduct in the DHCSSP.
On 6 September 2013, 232 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures Judge Freeh submitted a written report to the district court in which he Administrator to issue another policy statement regarding the impact of presented his findings that the conduct of two attorneys in the office of the release provisions under the MSA on the filing of SPC claims and the claims administrator may have violated federal criminal statutes LMPC claims, which was filed on 17 December.
The district courts regarding fraud, money laundering, conspiracy or perjury.
In an order decision to either adopt, modify or reject the policy statement remains issued the same day, the court instructed Judge Freeh to promptly pending.
recommend, design, and test enhanced internal compliance, State and local civil claims, including under OPA 90 anti-corruption, anti-fraud and conflicts of interest policies and On 12 August 2010, the State of Alabama filed a lawsuit seeking procedures, and assist the claims administrator in the implementation of damages for alleged economic and environmental harms, including such policies and procedures.
On 17 January 2014, Judge Freeh natural resource damages, civil penalties under state law, declaratory and submitted a second written report that described the behaviour at the injunctive relief, and punitive damages as a result of the Incident.
On DHCSSP that led to the resignations of senior staff members.
3 March 2011, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit to declare various BP PSC settlements Seafood Compensation Fund entities as well as other entities liable for removal costs and damages, On 17 December 2013, BP filed a civil lawsuit in MDL 2179 against including natural resource damages under federal and state law, to former PSC lawyer Mikal C Watts, accusing him of having fraudulently recover civil penalties, attorneys fees and response costs under state claimed to represent more than 40,000 deckhands who allegedly law, and to recover for alleged negligence, nuisance, trespass, fraudulent suffered economic injuries as a result of the Incident.
BPs action alleges concealment and negligent misrepresentation of material facts regarding that BP relied on Mr Wattss representations when it agreed to pay safety procedures and BPs and other defendants ability to manage the $2.3 billion to the Seafood Compensation Fund the Fund, which was oil spill, unjust enrichment from economic and other damages to the established under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement to State of Louisiana and its citizens, and punitive damages.
compensate those who earn their livelihood from Gulf waters and were On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of Environmental directly affected by the spill, and that the Economic and Property Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging violations of Damages Class stands to benefit unjustly from the full distribution of the several state environmental statutes.
money remaining in the Fund.
In addition, BP filed two motions asking the district court to suspend further distributions from the Fund and to The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality has issued an administrative order seeking environmental civil penalties and other relief determine the extent of the fraud and what portion, if any, of the Fund should be returned as a result.
On 17 January 2014, Mr Watts filed a under state law.
On 23 September 2011, BP removed this matter to federal district court, and it has been consolidated with MDL 2179. motion to stay the litigation pending a parallel criminal investigation and the PSC also filed a brief opposing BPs motion seeking an injunction.
On District Attorneys of 11 parishes in the State of Louisiana filed suits under 26 February 2014, the district court granted Mr Wattss motion to stay state wildlife statutes seeking penalties for damage to wildlife as a result the litigation and denied BPs motion to suspend further distributions, on of the Incident.
On 9 December 2011 and 28 December 2011, the district the basis that no further payment from the Fund was imminent.
The court in MDL 2179 granted BPs motions to dismiss the District district court deferred ruling on BPs motion seeking to determine the Attorneys complaints, holding that those claims are pre-empted by the extent of the fraud and what portion, if any, of the Fund should be Clean Water Act.
The Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts ruling on returned as a result.
Several of the parishes sought Supreme Court review, On 19 September 2014, the district court designated-neutrals appointed which BP opposed.
On 20 October 2014, the US Supreme Court declined to preside over the settlement of the seafood program the Neutrals to hear the appeal.
submitted to the district court their report on recommendations for the On 14 November 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part Seafood Compensation Program supplement distribution BPs motion to dismiss the complaints filed by the states of Alabama and Recommendations.
The Neutrals observed that there remain some Louisiana.
The courts order dismissed the states claims brought under claims against the Fund which have not been paid, and that BP has filed a state law, including claims for civil penalties and the State of Louisianas motion which seeks a return of part of the Fund, on the basis that it is request for a declaratory judgment under the Louisiana Oil Spill currently impossible to fully distribute the balance of the Fund.
The Prevention and Response Act, holding that those claims were preNeutrals recommended that the district court target a $500 million partial empted by federal law.
It also dismissed the State of Louisianas claims distribution in the second round of payments using a proportionate of nuisance and trespass under general maritime law.
The courts order distribution method.
The district court issued an order filing the further held that the states have stated claims for negligence and Recommendations into the court record and requiring that any objections products liability under general maritime law, have sufficiently alleged to or comments on the Recommendations to be filed by 20 October presentment of their claims under OPA 90 and may seek punitive 2014.
BP filed a response asserting that the district court should not yet damages under general maritime law.
order second round distributions on the basis that, amongst other things, On 9 December 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part BPs the first round distributions are not complete.
On 18 November 2014, the motion to dismiss a master complaint brought on behalf of local district court approved the Neutrals Recommendations and government entities.
The courts order dismissed the plaintiffs state law disbursement of funds commenced in early 2015. claims and limited the types of maritime law claims the plaintiffs may Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Medical Settlement pursue, but also held that the plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged The district court approved the Medical Settlement Agreement MSA in presentment of their claims under OPA 90 and that certain local a final order and judgment on 11 January 2013.
The effective date was government entity claimants may seek punitive damages under general 12 February 2014.
As of 9 January 2015, the claims administrator under maritime law.
The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the the Medical Settlement the Medical Claims Administrator had received underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply 12,418 claim forms, including 11,703 for certain Specified Physical his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
Conditions SPCs, and has determined 774 claims to be eligible for monetary compensation totalling approximately $1,542,500.
For those In January 2013, the states of Alabama, Mississippi and Florida claimants seeking benefits under the Periodic Medical Consultation submitted or asserted claims to BP under OPA 90 for alleged losses Program, approximately 8,411 claims have been determined to be including economic losses and property damage as a result of the eligible.
The deadline for submitting claims for SPCs under the MSA was Incident.
The states of Louisiana and Texas have also asserted similar 12 February 2015.
BP does not yet know the total number of claims claims.
The amounts claimed, certain of which include punitive damages submitted, however a large volume of such claims is anticipated.
The or other multipliers, are very substantial.
However, BP considers these Medical Claims Administrator issued a policy statement, with which BP claims unsubstantiated and the methodologies used to calculate these agrees, classifying physical conditions first diagnosed after 16 April 2012 claims to be seriously flawed, not supported by OPA 90, not supported as Later-Manifested Physical Conditions LMPC, which requires a class by documentation, and to substantially overstate the claims.
Similar member seeking compensation to file a notice of intent to sue that claims have also been submitted by various local government entities allows BP the option to mediate the claim in lieu of litigation.
On 23 July and a non-US government.
These claims under OPA 90 are substantial in 2014, the district court issued an order affirming the policy statement.
On aggregate, and more claims are expected to be submitted.
The amounts 26 November 2014, the district court directed the Medical Claims alleged in the submissions for state and local government claims total BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 233 approximately $35 billion.
BP will defend vigorously against these claims the court on 2 October 2014, following a regulatory review and public if adjudicated at trial.
Certain of these states including the states of comment process.
As part of the project agreements, BP will receive Alabama, Florida, Texas and Mississippi, as described below and local Natural Resource Damages NRD restoration credits that can be used to government entities have filed civil lawsuits that pertain to claims offset related NRD restoration obligations, either in whole or in part.
asserted by them under their earlier OPA 90 submissions to BP.
Other civil complaints In April 2013, the states of Alabama, Florida and Mississippi each filed On 26 August 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part BPs actions against BP related to the Incident, which have been consolidated motion to dismiss a master complaint raising claims for economic loss by with MDL 2179.
On 19 April 2013, the State of Alabama filed an action private plaintiffs, dismissing the plaintiffs state law claims and limiting against BP alleging general maritime law claims of negligence, gross the types of maritime law claims the plaintiffs may pursue, but also held negligence, and wilful misconduct: claims under OPA 90 seeking that certain classes of claimants may seek punitive damages under damages for removal costs, natural resource damages, property damage, general maritime law.
The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on lost tax and other revenue and damages for providing increased public the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise services during or after removal activities: and various state law claims.
apply its dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
The State of Alabamas complaint also seeks punitive damages.
On 30 September 2011, the court granted in part BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint asserting personal injury claims on behalf of persons On 20 April 2013, the State of Florida filed suit against BP and Halliburton exposed to crude oil or chemical dispersants, dismissing the plaintiffs in federal court in Florida, and its case has also been transferred to MDL state law claims, claims by seamen for punitive damages, claims for 2179.
Floridas complaint alleges general maritime law claims for medical monitoring damages by asymptomatic plaintiffs, claims for negligence and gross negligence: OPA 90 claims for alleged lost tax battery and nuisance under maritime law, and claims alleging negligence revenue, other economic damages and natural resource damages: and per se.
As with its other rulings on motions to dismiss master various state law claims.
Florida also seeks punitive damages.
complaints, the court did not lift an earlier stay on the underlying The State of Mississippi filed both federal court and state court individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply its dismissal complaints in Mississippi against BP in April 2013.
Mississippis federal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
court complaint alleges OPA 90 claims against BP, Transocean and Citizens groups have also filed either lawsuits or notices of intent to file Anadarko for natural resource damages, property damage, lost tax lawsuits seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean revenue and damages for providing increased public services during or Water Act and other environmental statutes.
On 16 June 2011, the after removal activities.
It asserts general maritime law claims for district court in MDL 2179 granted BPs motion to dismiss a master negligence and gross negligence against Halliburton only.
Mississippis complaint raising claims for injunctive relief under various federal state court complaint alleges various state law claims, including environmental statutes brought by various citizens groups and others.
negligence, gross negligence and willful misconduct.
Both Mississippi complaints seek punitive damages.
The State of Mississippis federal The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual court action and state court action have both been consolidated with complaints raising those claims for injunctive relief or otherwise apply its MDL 2179. dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
In addition, a different set of environmental groups filed a motion to On 17 May 2013, the State of Texas filed suit against BP and others in reconsider dismissal of their Endangered Species Act claims on 14 July federal court in Texas.
Its complaint asserts claims under OPA 90 for 2011.
natural resource damages, lost sales tax and state park revenue: claims for natural resource damages under the Comprehensive Environmental On 31 January 2012, the district court in MDL 2179, on motion by the Center for Biological Diversity, entered final judgment on the basis of the Response, Compensation, and Liability Act CERCLA : and claims for natural resource damages, cost recovery, civil penalties and economic 16 June 2011 order with respect to two actions brought against BP by that plaintiff.
On 2 February 2012, the Center for Biological Diversity filed damages under state environmental statutes.
The State of Texass action has been consolidated with MDL 2179. a notice of appeal of both actions to the Fifth Circuit.
Following oral argument, the Fifth Circuit ruled in BPs favour on 9 January 2013 in On 14 February 2014, BP moved to strike the State of Alabamas jury trial virtually all respects, though it remanded the Center for Biological demand as to its claim for compensatory damages under OPA 90.
BPs Diversitys claim under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to motion remains pending.
Know Act EPCRA to the district court.
On 22 January 2013, the Center On 5 March 2014, the State of Florida filed a lawsuit which has since for Biological Diversity filed a Petition for Panel Rehearing in the Fifth been consolidated with MDL 2179 to declare various BP entities and Circuit, which was denied on 4 February 2013.
In January 2014, the other entities liable for removal costs and natural resource damages.
district court in MDL 2179 set a schedule for proceedings on remand of the EPCRA claim under which limited discovery has taken place, and the OPA Test Case Proceedings parties filed cross-motions for summary judgment that were fully briefed Seven OPA test cases will address certain OPA 90 liability questions by 19 May 2014.
The district court has not acted and the cross motions focusing on, among other issues, whether plaintiffs alleged losses tied remain to be decided.
to the 2010 federal government moratoria on deepwater drilling and federal permit delays are compensable.
On 3 June 2014 the district court Halliburton lawsuits entered an Agreed Upon Scheduling Order for these test cases.
That On 19 April 2011, Halliburton filed a lawsuit in Texas state court seeking scheduling order has now been suspended indefinitely with no new indemnification from BPXP for certain tort and pollution-related liabilities deadlines being established.
On 3 May 2011, BPXP removed Halliburtons case to federal court, and on 9 August 2011, the action was transferred State of Alabama Damages Case Proceedings to MDL 2179.
On 16 July 2014 the district court issued a scheduling order for the State of Alabamas economic damages claims against BP and other parties and On 1 September 2011, Halliburton filed an additional lawsuit against BP a request by the district court for the parties to set aside the month of in Texas state court alleging that BP did not identify the existence of a November 2015 for a trial.
That scheduling order has now been purported hydrocarbon zone at the Macondo well to Halliburton in suspended indefinitely with no new deadlines being established.
connection with Halliburtons cement work performed before the Incident and that BP has concealed the existence of this purported Agreement for early natural resource restoration hydrocarbon zone following the Incident.
Halliburton claims that the On 21 April 2011, BP announced an agreement with natural resource alleged failure to identify this information has harmed its business trustees for the US and five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to ventures and reputation and resulted in lost profits and other damages.
$1 billion to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural On 7 February 2012, the lawsuit was transferred to MDL 2179. resource injuries resulting from the Incident.
Funding for these projects will come from the $20-billion Trust fund.
BP and the trustees have Non-US government lawsuits reached agreement on a total of 54 early restoration projects that are On 15 September 2010, three Mexican states bordering the Gulf of expected to cost approximately $698 million.
These include 10 projects Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo and Tamaulipas filed lawsuits in federal that are already in place or underway, and 44 projects that were filed with court in Texas against several BP entities.
These lawsuits were 234 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures subsequently transferred to MDL 2179 on 4 November 2010.
These most of the individual defendants while holding that a subset of the lawsuits allege that the Incident harmed their tourism, fishing and claims against two individual defendants and the corporate defendants commercial shipping industries resulting in, among other things, could proceed.
In addition, all of the claims of a smaller purported diminished tax revenue, damaged natural resources and the subclass were dismissed with leave to re-plead in 20 days.
On 2 April environment and caused the states to incur expenses in preparing a 2012, the plaintiffs in the lead class and subclass filed an amended response to the Incident.
On 9 December 2011, the district court in consolidated complaint with claims based on 1 the 12 alleged MDL 2179 granted in part BPs motion to dismiss the three Mexican misstatements that the court held were actionable in the February 2012 states complaints, dismissing their claims under OPA 90 and for ruling: and 2 13 alleged misstatements concerning BPs operating nuisance and negligence per se, and preserving their claims for management system that the judge either rejected with leave to re-plead negligence and gross negligence only to the extent there has been a or did not address in the February 2012 ruling.
On 2 May 2012, physical injury to a proprietary interest of the states.
On 12 September defendants moved to dismiss the claims based on the 13 statements in 2013, the court issued a final judgment dismissing the three Mexican the amended complaint that the judge did not already rule are actionable.
On 4 October 2013, the three Mexican On 6 February 2013, the court granted in part this motion to dismiss, states filed notices of appeal from the judgment to the Fifth Circuit.
rejecting the plaintiffs claims based on eight of the statements at issue Following briefing, oral argument was heard on the appeal on 27 October in the motion and also dismissing all claims against former BP employee 2014 and the appeal is now under review.
On 20 May 2014, the judge denied plaintiffs motion to certify a proposed class of ADS purchasers before the Deepwater On 5 April 2011, the State of Yucatan submitted a claim to the Gulf Coast Horizon explosion from 8 November 2007 to 20 April 2010 and granted Claims Facility GCCF alleging potential damage to its natural resources plaintiffs motions to certify a class of post-explosion ADS purchasers and environment, and seeking to recover the cost of assessing the from 26 April 2010 to 28 May 2010 and to amend their complaint to add alleged damage.
On 18 September 2013, the State of Yucatan filed suit one additional alleged misstatement.
Both parties sought permission to against BP in federal court in Florida and, on 13 December 2013, its appeal from the district courts class certification decisions and on 3 July action was transferred to MDL 2179.
2014, the Fifth Circuit granted both parties requests.
Briefing on those On 19 April 2013, the Mexican federal government filed a civil action appeals is expected to conclude in March 2015. against BP and others in MDL 2179.
The complaint seeks a The trial of the securities fraud claims of the class of post-explosion ADS determination that each defendant bears liability under OPA 90 for purchasers has been scheduled to commence on 11 January 2016. damages that include the costs of responding to the spill: natural resource damages allegedly recoverable by Mexico as an OPA 90 Individual securities litigation trustee: and the net loss of taxes, royalties, fees or net profits.
In April and May 2012, six cases three of which were consolidated into one action were filed in state and federal courts by one or more state, Insurance-related matters county or municipal pension funds against BP entities and several current On 1 March 2012, the district court in MDL 2179 issued a partial final and former officers and directors seeking damages for alleged losses judgment dismissing with prejudice certain claims by BP, Anadarko and those funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares MOEX for additional insured coverage under insurance policies issued to and, in two cases, ADSs.
The funds assert various state law and federal Transocean for the sub-surface pollution liabilities BP, Anadarko and law claims.
From July 2012 to April 2014, 27 additional cases were filed MOEX have incurred and will incur with respect to the Macondo well oil in Texas state and federal courts later consolidated into 24 actions by release.
BP filed a notice of appeal from the district courts judgment to pension or investment funds or advisers against BP entities and current the Fifth Circuit and on 1 March 2013, the Fifth Circuit reversed the and former officers and directors, asserting state, federal, and non-US district courts judgment, rejecting the district courts ruling that the law claims and seeking damages for alleged losses that those funds insurance that BP is entitled to receive as an additional insured under the suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and or ADSs.
Transocean insurance policies at issue is limited to the scope of the Two cases were filed in New York federal court by funds that purchased indemnity in the drilling contract between BP and Transocean.
On BP ordinary shares and ADSs, asserting state and federal law claims.
All 29 August 2013, the Fifth Circuit withdrew its 1 March 2013 opinion and the cases have been transferred to federal court in Houston and, with the certified two questions of Texas law at issue in the appeal to the exception of one case that has been stayed, the judge presiding over Supreme Court of Texas.
On 13 February 2015 the Supreme Court of MDL 2185.
One case was voluntarily dismissed on 9 May 2013.
On Texas held that the insurance BP is entitled to receive as an additional 3 October 2013, the judge granted in part and denied in part the assured is limited to the liabilities that Transocean assumed in the drilling defendants motion to dismiss three of the remaining 29 cases contract which does not include liabilities for damages arising from subdismissing a subset of the claims.
The judge held that English law surface pollution.
governs the plaintiffs remaining claims with the exception of the federal False Claims Act actions law claims based on purchases of ADSs and a potential claim under Ohio BP is aware that actions have been or may be brought under the Qui Tam state law against BP p. l. c. by certain Ohio funds.
On 11 December 2013, whistle-blower provisions of the False Claims Act FCA.
On defendants moved to dismiss 10 of the remaining cases and answered 17 December 2012, the court ordered unsealed one complaint that had the complaints in two others.
On 5 December 2013, the Ohio funds been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana by plaintiffs in one of the first three cases defendants moved to dismiss an individual under the FCAs Qui Tam provisions.
The complaint alleged filed an amended complaint withdrawing their English law claim and that BP and another defendant had made false reports and certifications asserting only a claim under Ohio state law.
On 6 January 2014, BP of the amount of oil released into the Gulf of Mexico following the moved to dismiss that case for a second time, and on 7 April 2014, the Incident.
On 17 December 2012, the DoJ filed with the court a notice judge dismissed the Ohio action with leave to replead English law claims that the DoJ elected to decline to intervene in the action.
On 8 June 2014, the Ohio funds filed a second amended 2013, the complaint was transferred to MDL 2179 and remains stayed.
complaint asserting only English law claims.
On 30 September 2014, the MDL 2185 and other securities-related litigation court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss Since the Incident, shareholders have sued BP and various of its current 10 cases.
The court dismissed the negligent misstatement claims in all and former officers and directors asserting shareholder derivative claims but one of the 10 cases and dismissed claims in these cases based on and class and individual securities fraud claims.
Many of these lawsuits certain public and private misstatements.
The court also rejected BPs have been consolidated or co-ordinated in federal district court in arguments that the ordinary share claims of the non-US plaintiffs should Houston MDL 2185. be heard in England.
On 29 October 2014, the case brought by the Ohio Securities class action funds was transferred to federal court in Houston for all purposes.
On On 13 February 2012, the federal district court in Houston in MDL 2185 30 December 2014, defendants answered the complaints in 11 cases.
issued two decisions the February 2012 ruling on the defendants Amended complaints in the remaining 15 cases are due by 1 April 2015. motions to dismiss the two consolidated securities fraud complaints filed on behalf of purported classes of BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders.
The February 2012 ruling dismissed all the claims of the ordinary shareholders, and the claims of the lead class of ADS holders against BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 235 Canadian class action the Clean Water Act: one misdemeanour count under the Migratory Bird On 20 July 2012, a BP entity received an amended statement of claim for Treaty Act: and one felony count of obstruction of Congress.
an action in Alberta, Canada, filed by three plaintiffs seeking to assert Pursuant to that sentence, BP will pay $4 billion, including $1,256 million in claims under Canadian law against BP on behalf of a class of Canadian criminal fines, in instalments over five years.
Under the terms of the residents who allegedly suffered losses because of their purchase of BP criminal plea agreement, a total of $2,394 million will be paid to the National ordinary shares and ADSs.
This case was dismissed on jurisdictional Fish & Wildlife Foundation NFWF over five years.
In addition, $350 million grounds on 14 November 2012.
On 15 November 2012, one of the will be paid to the National Academy of Sciences NAS over five years.
plaintiffs re-filed a statement of claim against BP in Ontario, Canada, BP made its required payments that were due in March and April 2013, seeking to assert the same claims against BP.
BP moved to dismiss that January 2014, and January 2015 totalling $1.521 billion.
The court also action for lack of jurisdiction, and on 9 October 2013 the Ontario court ordered, as previously agreed with the US government, that BP serve a denied BPs motion.
On 7 November 2013, BP filed a notice of appeal term of five years probation.
Pursuant to the terms of the plea agreement, from that decision.
On 14 August 2014, the Ontario Court of Appeal held the court also ordered certain equitable relief, including additional actions, that the case should be stayed and that the claims made on behalf of enforceable by the court, to further enhance the safety of drilling operations Canadian residents who purchased BP ordinary shares and ADSs on in the Gulf of Mexico.
These requirements relate to BPs risk management exchanges outside of Canada should be litigated in those countries, and processes, such as third-party auditing and verification, BPs oil spill granted leave for the plaintiff to amend the complaint to assert claims response plan, training, and well control equipment and processes such as only on behalf of Canadian residents who purchased ADSs on the blowout preventers and cementing.
BP also agreed to maintain a real-time Toronto Stock Exchange.
On 10 October 2014, the plaintiff filed an drilling operations monitoring centre in Houston or another appropriate application for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
In addition, BP will undertake several initiatives with academia and on that application concluded on 25 November 2014. regulators to develop new technologies related to deepwater drilling safety.
Dividend-related proceedings The resolution also provides for the appointment of two monitors, both On 5 July 2012, the federal district court in Houston in MDL 2185 issued with terms of up to four years.
A process safety monitor will review, and a decision granting BPs motion to dismiss, for lack of personal provide recommendations concerning BPXPs process safety and risk jurisdiction, the lawsuit against BP p. l. c. for cancelling its dividend management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
On 10 August 2012, the plaintiffs filed an ethics monitor will review and provide recommendations concerning BPs amended complaint, which BP moved to dismiss on 9 October 2012.
On ethics and compliance programme.
BP has also agreed to retain an 12 April 2013, the court granted BPs motion and dismissed the lawsuit independent third-party auditor who will review and report to the probation for lack of personal jurisdiction and on the alternative grounds of failure to officer, the DoJ and BP regarding BPXPs compliance with the key terms of state a claim and that the courts of England are the more appropriate the plea agreement including the completion of safety and environmental forum for the litigation.
On 16 June 2013, the court granted the plaintiffs management systems audits, operational oversight enhancements, oil spill motion to amend its decision so as to eliminate the alternative grounds response training and drills and the implementation of best practices.
On 22 November 2013, the plaintiffs filed an additional and the plea agreement, BP has also agreed to co-operate in ongoing criminal substantially identical action against BP p. l. c. in federal court in New York, actions and investigations, including prosecutions of four former employees which was transferred to the judge presiding over MDL 2185.
BP p. l. c. who have been separately charged.
moved to dismiss that action on 19 February 2014.
On 18 June 2014, the In its resolution with the SEC, BP has resolved the SECs Deepwater court dismissed the case on the ground that the courts of England are Horizon-related claims against the company under Sections 10 b and the more appropriate forum for the litigation.
On 18 July 2014, the 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the associated rules.
BP plaintiff appealed that decision to the Fifth Circuit.
Briefing on that appeal has agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, payable in three instalments concluded on 24 December 2014. over a period of three years, and has consented to the entry of an ERISA injunction prohibiting it from violating certain US securities laws and On 30 March 2012, the federal district court in Houston in MDL 2185 regulations.
The SECs claims are premised on oil flow rate estimates issued a decision granting the defendants motions to dismiss the ERISA contained in three reports provided by BP to the SEC during a one-week case related to BP share funds in several employee benefit savings plans.
period on 29 and 30 April 2010 and 4 May 2010, within the first 14 days On 11 April 2012, the plaintiffs requested leave to file an amended after the accident.
BPs consent was incorporated in a final judgment and complaint, which was denied on 27 August 2012.
Final judgment court order on 10 December 2012, and BP made its first payment of dismissing the case was entered on 4 September 2012 and, on $175 million on 11 December 2012, its second payment of $175 million 25 September 2012, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Fifth on 1 August 2013, and the final instalment of $175 million, plus accrued Circuit.
On 15 July 2014, the Fifth Circuit remanded the case to the interest, on 1 August 2014. district court in light of new pleading standards recently set forth by the BPs November 2012 agreement with the US government does not US Supreme Court.
On 18 September 2014, the plaintiffs filed a motion resolve the DoJs civil claims, such as those for civil penalties under the seeking leave to amend their complaint.
Defendants opposed that Clean Water Act or claims for natural resource damages under OPA 90. motion.
On 15 January 2015, the district court granted in part and denied Neither does it resolve the private securities claims pending in MDL in part the motion to amend, permitting plaintiffs to amend their 2185. complaint to allege some of their proposed claims against certain defendants.
Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on 12 February 2015.
US Environmental Protection Agency matters On 28 November 2012, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA Settlements with the DoJ and SEC notified BP that it had temporarily suspended BP p. l. c. BPXP and a On 1 June 2010, the DoJ announced that it was conducting an number of other BP subsidiaries from participating in new federal investigation into the Incident encompassing possible violations of US contracts.
As a result of the temporary suspension, the BP entities listed civil or criminal laws, and subsequently created a unified task force of in the notice were ineligible to receive any US government contracts federal agencies to investigate the Incident.
On 15 November 2012, BP either through the award of a new contract, or the extension of the term announced that it reached agreement with the US government, subject of or renewal of an expiring contract.
to court approval, to resolve all federal criminal charges and all claims by the SEC against BP arising from the Deepwater Horizon accident, oil spill In addition, the charges to which BPXP pleaded guilty included one and response.
misdemeanour count under the Clean Water Act that, by operation of law, triggered a statutory debarment, also referred to as mandatory On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of debarment, of the facility where the Clean Water Act violation occurred.
Louisiana accepted BPs pleas regarding the federal criminal charges, and On 1 February 2013, the EPA issued a notice that BPXP was mandatorily BP was sentenced in connection with the criminal plea agreement.
BP debarred at its Houston headquarters.
Mandatory debarment prevents a pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts of Misconduct or Neglect of Ships company from entering into new contracts or new leases with the US Officers relating to the loss of 11 lives: one misdemeanour count under government that would be performed at the facility where the Clean Water Act violation occurred.
236 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures On 13 March 2014, BP, BPXP, and all other temporarily suspended BP several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural gas market at entities entered into an administrative agreement with the EPA Houston Ship Channel during September, October and November 2008. resolving all issues related to suspension or debarment arising from the On 28 July 2011, FERC staff issued a Notice of Alleged Violations stating Incident, allowing BP entities to enter into new contracts or leases with that it had preliminarily determined that several BP entities fraudulently the US government.
Under the terms and conditions of the traded physical natural gas in the Houston Ship Channel and Katy administrative agreement, which will apply for five years, BP has agreed markets and trading points to increase the value of their financial swing to a set of safety and operations, ethics and compliance and corporate spread positions.
On 5 August 2013, the FERC issued an Order to Show governance requirements.
Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalty directing BP to respond to a FERC Enforcement Staff report, which FERC issued on the same day, alleging US Department of Interior matters that BP manipulated the next-day, fixed price gas market at Houston Ship On 14 September 2011, the US Coast Guard and Bureau of Ocean Energy Channel from mid-September 2008 to 30 November 2008.
The FERC Management, Regulation and Enforcement BOEMRE issued a report Enforcement Staff report proposes a civil penalty of $28 million and the regarding the causes of the 20 April 2010 Macondo well blowout the surrender of $800,000 of alleged profits.
BP filed its answer on 4 October BOEMRE Report.
The BOEMRE Report states that decisions by BP, 2013 denying the allegations and moving for dismissal.
On 15 May 2014, Halliburton and Transocean increased the risk or failed to fully consider or FERC denied the motion to dismiss and the matter has been set for a mitigate the risk of a blowout on 20 April 2010.
The BOEMRE Report also hearing before an Administrative Law Judge in March 2015. states that BP, Transocean and Halliburton violated certain regulations Canadian Natural Resource related to offshore drilling.
In itself, the BOEMRE Report does not constitute The US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC is currently the initiation of enforcement proceedings relating to any violation.
On investigating certain practices relating to crude oil pipeline nominations 12 October 2011, the US Department of the Interior Bureau of Safety and procedures on Canadian pipelines.
On 17 November 2014, the CFTC Environmental Enforcement issued to BPXP, Transocean, and Halliburton Enforcement Staff notified BP that it intends to recommend an Notification of Incidents of Noncompliance INCs.
The notification issued to enforcement action naming certain parties, including several BP entities, BPXP is for a number of alleged regulatory violations concerning Macondo alleging violations of the anti-fraud and false reporting provisions of the well operations.
The Department of Interior has indicated that this list of Commodity Exchange Act in connection with these nomination violations may be supplemented as additional evidence is reviewed, and on procedures and related trades.
On 17 December 2014 BP submitted a 7 December 2011, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement detailed defence responding to the allegations in the notice and issued to BPXP a second INC.
This notification was issued to BP for five challenging the CFTCs jurisdiction over the alleged conduct.
alleged violations related to drilling and abandonment operations at the Macondo well.
BP has filed an administrative appeal with respect to the first Investigations by the FERC and CFTC into BPs trading activities continue and second INCs.
BP has filed a joint stay of proceedings with the to be conducted from time to time.
Department of Interior with respect to both INCs.
CSB matters On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred at the Texas City Louisiana Department of Natural Resources refinery.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and many others were On 21 August 2013, the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources injured.
BP Products North America, Inc. BP Products has resolved all LDNR issued a Cease and Desist Order the Order directing BP to apply civil injury claims and all civil and criminal governmental claims arising for a Coastal Use Permit to remove certain orphan anchors that had from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety been placed in coastal waters to secure the containment boom during oil and Hazard Investigation Board CSB issued a report on the incident.
The spill response operations in 2010.
On 18 September 2013, BP filed a report contained recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the complaint in the US District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana board of directors of BP.
To date, the CSB has accepted that the majority seeking to enjoin the State of Louisiana from enforcing the Order on of BPs responses to its recommendations have been satisfactorily grounds including that the Order is pre-empted by federal law.
BP and the CSB are continuing to discuss the remaining open 7 August 2014, the court entered a final judgment providing that the recommendations with the objective of the CSB agreeing to accept these Order was pre-empted on the basis of impossibility and obstacle as satisfactorily addressed as well.
The LDNR did not file a notice of appeal and the time period to file such notice has expired.
OSHA matters On 29 October 2009, the US Occupational Safety and Health Pending investigations and reports relating to the Deepwater Administration OSHA issued citations to the Texas City refinery related Horizon oil spill CSB investigation to the Process Safety Management PSM standard.
On 12 July 2012, The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB conducted OSHA and BP resolved 409 of the 439 citations.
The agreement required an investigation of the Incident that is focused on the explosions and fire, that BP pay a civil penalty of $13,027,000 and that BP abate the alleged and not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
As part of this effort, on violations by 31 December 2012.
BP completed these requirements and 24 July 2012, the CSB conducted a hearing at which it released its the agreement has terminated.
The settlement excluded 30 citations for preliminary findings on, among other things, the use of safety indicators which BP and OSHA could not reach agreement.
However, the parties by industry including BP and Transocean and government regulators in agreed that BPs penalty liability will not exceed $1 million if those offshore operations prior to the Incident.
On 18 September 2014, in citations are resolved through litigation.
On 4 March 2014, the parties response to Transoceans challenge to the CSBs jurisdiction to reached agreement in relation to the remaining Texas City citations.
The investigate the Incident, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts order agreement links the outcome of the remaining Texas City citations to the enforcing CSBs administrative subpoenas against Transocean.
BP has ultimate outcome of the remaining Toledo citations see below.
If the produced documents in compliance with the CSBs document 31 July 2013 decision of the Administrative Law Judge in relation to the subpoenas.
Separately the CSB released the first two volumes of its remaining Toledo citations is ultimately upheld, OSHA has agreed to three-volume report on its investigation into the Incident at a public dismiss the remaining Texas City citations.
hearing in Houston on 5 June 2014.
The first two volumes provide an introduction to the Incident as well as the CSBs findings regarding the If the 31 July 2013 decision is ultimately overturned, BP has agreed to operation of the blowout preventer and other technical issues.
The CSB pay a penalty not exceeding $1 million to resolve the remaining Texas has indicated that it plans to release Volume 3 concerning the role of the City citations.
regulator in the oversight of the offshore industry and organizational and On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products and BPcultural factors in or around March 2015.
Husky for alleged violations of the PSM standard at the Toledo refinery, with penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from Other legal proceedings an inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery FERC and CFTC matters Process Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both BP The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US Products and BP-Husky contested the citations.
The parties resolved Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC have been investigating 23 citations in a pre-trial settlement for an aggregate amount of $45,000.
A trial of the remaining 42 citations was completed in June 2012 before BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 237 an Administrative Law Judge from the OSH Review Commission.
The subsea and other systems.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner of Administrative Law Judge rendered her decision on 31 July 2013.
Of the the Atlantis unit which is in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
On 42 remaining citations, OSHA voluntarily dismissed one of them and the 21 August 2014, the court granted BPs motions for summary judgment.
The remaining five citations were On 28 August 2014, the court entered final judgment in favour of BP.
In downgraded and assessed an aggregate penalty of $35,000.
In addition, September 2014 the plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration, which BP the judge accepted the parties pre-trial settlement of the 23 citations.
The judge took this on advisement.
A decision of the court is a result of the settlement and the judges decision, the total penalty in awaited.
respect of the citations was reduced from the original amount of Bolivia approximately $3 million to $80,000.
The Review Commission has In respect of Pan American Energys arbitration case for compensation granted OSHAs petition for review and briefing was completed in the for the expropriation of its shares in Empresa Petrolera Chaco S. A. first half of 2014.
The Review Commission is not expected to issue its Chaco which commenced in March 2012 against the Republic of Bolivia, decision until 2015 at the earliest.
on 18 December 2014, the Republic of Bolivia and Pan American Energy Prudhoe Bay leak signed a $357 million settlement agreement and agreed to terminate the In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated arbitration.
by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the EC investigation and related matters North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder filed a On 14 May 2013, European Commission officials made a series of consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on unannounced inspections at the offices of BP and other companies behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders, based on alleged involved in the oil industry acting on concerns that anticompetitive misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline practices may have occurred in connection with oil price reporting before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
The BP p. l. c. shareholder filed an practices and the reference price assessment process.
Related inquiries amended complaint, in response to which BP filed a motion to dismiss, and requests for information have also been received from US and other which was granted by the trial court on 14 March 2012.
The plaintiff regulators following the European Commissions actions, including from appealed the courts dismissal of the case, and on 13 February 2014 the the Japanese Fair Trade Commission, the Korean Fair Trade Commission, Ninth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part, ruling that claims based the Federal Trade Commission FTC and the CFTC.
On 1 October 2014, on four alleged misrepresentations should not have been dismissed.
The BP was informed by the FTC that it was closing its investigation.
The case has been remanded to the trial court for further proceedings.
other investigations remain open and there is no deadline for the Exxon Valdez matters completion of the inquiries.
Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in In addition, fifteen purported class actions related to these matters have Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the been filed in US district courts alleging manipulation and antitrust Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of violations under the Commodity Exchange Act and US antitrust laws, and those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service these purported class actions have been consolidated in federal court in Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the New York.
other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the California False Claims Act matters spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% On 4 November 2014 the California Attorney General filed a notice in interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in California state court that it was intervening in a previously-sealed Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly California False Claims Act CFCA lawsuit filed by relator Christopher owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Schroen against BP, BP Energy Company, BP Corporation North America Atlantic Richfield.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims Inc. BP Products and BPAPC.
On 7 January 2015, the California Attorney against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a General filed a complaint in intervention alleging that BP violated the claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and CFCA and the California Unfair Competition Law by falsely and damages that it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that fraudulently overcharging California state entities for natural gas.
The affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
relators complaint makes similar allegations, in addition to individual Lead paint matters claims.
The complaints seek treble damages, punitive damages, penalties Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of and injunctive relief.
BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in See Financial statements Note 31 for additional information on the the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in groups legal proceedings.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged successor to International Smelting and Refining and another International trade sanctions company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other The plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the non-US entities of BP conducted limited activities in, or with persons lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US and EU sanctions remove lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening Sanctioned Countries.
Sanctions restrictions continue to be insignificant programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
BP monitors reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for its activities with Sanctioned Countries, persons from Sanctioned lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Countries and individuals and companies subject to US and EU sanctions Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a and seeks to comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations.
final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Iran, such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies including: in the US, sanctions against persons involved with Irans sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible energy, shipping and petrochemicals industries, and sanctions against to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes financial institutions that engage in significant transactions with the Iran that it has valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously Central Bank: and in the EU, a prohibition on the import, purchase and and believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP transport of Iranian-origin crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas.
believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results, financial Additionally, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of position or liquidity will not be material.
2012 ITRA added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Atlantis related matters as amended the Exchange Act, and requires that issuers must file In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, filed a US False Claims Act annual or quarterly reports under the Exchange Act to disclose in such lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated federal regulations, and reports whether, during the period covered by the report, the registrant made false statements in connection with its compliance with those regulations, by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis 238 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Additional disclosures or its affiliates have knowingly engaged in certain, principally Iran-related, During 2014 the US and the EU have imposed sanctions on certain activities.
Russian activities, individuals and entities, including Rosneft.
Certain sectoral sanctions also apply to entities owned 50% or more by entities Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, on the relevant sectoral sanctions list.
Ruhr Oel GmbH ROG is a 50:50 including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US joint operation with Rosneft, operated by BP, which holds interests in a prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
The EU number of refineries in Germany.
To date, these sanctions have had no sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain material adverse impact on BP or ROG.
equipment used in the production, refining, or liquefaction of petroleum resources as well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of Syria Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of ITRA and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are With effect from 20 January 2014, the US and the EU implemented required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section 219, with the following possible exception: temporary, limited and reversible relief of certain sanctions related to Iran pursuant to a Joint Plan of Action entered by Iran, China, France, Rhum, located in the UK sector of the North Sea, is operated by BP Germany, Russia, the UK and the US.
BP has not changed its policy in Exploration Operating Company Limited BPEOC, a non-US subsidiary of relation to Iran as a result of the Joint Plan of Action and has no plans to BP.
Rhum is owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint arrangement engage in any new business with Iran which would now be permitted as between BPEOC and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited IOC.
The a result of the Joint Plan of Action.
Rhum joint arrangement was originally formed in 1974.
During the period of production from the field, the Rhum joint arrangement supplied natural BP has interests in and operates the North Sea Rhum field Rhum and gas and certain associated liquids to the UK.
On 16 November 2010, the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz field Shah Deniz, in which Naftiran Intertrade production from Rhum was suspended in response to relevant EU Co. Limited and NICO SPV Limited collectively, NICO or Iranian Oil sanctions.
Operations at the Rhum gas field recommenced in midCompany U. K. Limited IOC UK have interests.
Additionally, BP has October 2014 in accordance with the UK governments Temporary interests in a gas marketing entity and a gas pipeline entity in which Scheme see above.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, BP NICO or IOC UK have interests, although both entities and their related recorded gross revenues of $8.86 million related to its interests in Rhum.
assets are located outside Iran.
Production was suspended at Rhum in BP had no net profits related to Rhum during the year ended which IOC UK has a 50% interest in November 2010.
On 22 October 31 December 2014, recording an overall loss of $204.5 million net 2013, the UK government announced a temporary management scheme following an impairment write-off of $198 million in the fourth quarter of the Temporary Scheme under The Hydrocarbon Temporary 2014.
Management Scheme Regulations 2013 under which the UK government assumed control of and now manages IOC UKs interest BP currently intends to continue to hold its ownership stake in the Rhum in the Rhum field, thereby permitting Rhum operations to recommence in joint arrangement.
accordance with applicable EU regulations and in compliance with US laws and regulations.
Operations at the Rhum gas field recommenced in Material contracts mid-October 2014 in accordance with this Temporary Scheme.
On 13 March 2014, BP, BPXP, and other BP entities entered into an Shah Deniz, its gas marketing entity and the gas pipeline entity in which administrative agreement with the US Environmental Protection Agency, NICO has a 10% or less non-operating interest continue in operation.
which resolved all issues related to the suspension or debarment of BP The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas marketing and pipeline entities entities arising from the 20 April 2010 explosions and fire on the semiwere excluded from the main operative provisions of the EU regulations submersible rig Deepwater Horizon and resulting oil spill.
The as well as from the application of the new US sanctions, and fall within administrative agreement allows BP entities to enter into new contracts the exception for certain natural gas projects under Section 603 of ITRA.
or leases with the US government.
Under the terms and conditions of this agreement, which will apply for five years, BP has agreed to a set of BP has no operations in Iran and BPs policy is that it shall not purchase safety and operations, ethics and compliance and corporate governance or ship crude oil or other products of Iranian origin.
The agreement is governed by federal law.
controlled or operated joint arrangements may purchase Iranian-origin crude oil or other components as feedstock for facilities located outside Property, plant and equipment the EU and US.
It is also BPs policy that it shall not sell crude oil or other products into Iran.
BP currently holds an interest in a non-BP operated BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate and other tangible Indian joint venture which sold crude oil to an Indian entity in which assets in numerous countries, but no individual property is significant to NICO holds a minority, non-controlling stake.
Those sales ceased in the group as a whole.
For more on the significant subsidiaries of the January 2014. group at 31 December 2014 and the group percentage of ordinary share capital see Financial statements Note 35.
For information on significant In 2012, BP became aware that a Canadian university had been using joint ventures and associates of the group see Financial statements graduate students, some of whom were nationals of Iran, on a research Notes 14 and 15. programme funded in part by BP.
BP suspended the programme and made a voluntary disclosure to OFAC.
Also in 2012, BP became aware Related-party transactions that in 2010, as consideration for certain auditing services, BP effected a Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and transfer of funds to a local Iranian consulting firm which may have been associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 14 and Note in violation of relevant EU notification requirements.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into voluntary disclosure to the applicable EU regulator of such transfer.
transactions with various organizations with which some of its directors Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in this report, Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into the group did not have material transactions or transactions of an unusual Syria, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the period Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
BP has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangements with air fuel sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
From time Corporate governance practices to time, the joint arrangement operator or other partners may sell or In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights to Sanctioned The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices Countries without BPs prior knowledge or consent.
BP has registered as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US and paid required fees for patents and trade marks in Sanctioned companies are listed as follows: Countries.
Independence BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint arrangement and trades in small quantities of lubricants.
BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based Defined on page 252.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 239
