buyback, instead of having to cancel them.
This gives power expires at the conclusion of the annual general the Company the ability to reissue treasury shares meeting in 2016 or on 30 June 2016, whichever is quickly and cost-effectively including pursuant to the earlier.
the authority under resolution 15, see below and Resolution 16 empowers the Directors to allot provides the Company with additional flexibility in such securities for cash, other than to existing the management of its capital base.
Such shares shareholders on a pro-rata basis and also to sell may be resold for cash but all rights attaching treasury shares without first offering them to existing to them, including voting rights and any right to shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an receive dividends are suspended whilst they are aggregate nominal amount also of 7m representing in the treasury.
If the Board exercises the authority approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital conferred by resolution 14, the Company will have of the Company at 27 February 2015. the option of either holding in treasury or of cancelling These authorities and powers provide the Directors any of its shares purchased pursuant to this authority with a degree of flexibility to increase the assets of and will decide at the time of purchase which option the Company by the issue of new shares or the sale to pursue.
of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies Purchases of ordinary shares under the authority set out on page 9 or should any other favourable will be financed out of realised revenue and or capital opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
reserves and funded from the Companys own cash The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use resources or, if appropriate, from short-term borrowings.
them to satisfy demand from participants in the F&C The authority to purchase ordinary shares will Savings Plans when they believe it is advantageous continue until the annual general meeting in 2016 or to such participants and the Companys shareholders on 30 June 2016, whichever is the earlier.
Under no circumstances would the The Board intends to seek a renewal of such Directors use them to issue shares or sell treasury authority at subsequent annual general meetings.
shares at a price which would result in a dilution of net asset value per ordinary share.
Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury Resolutions 15 and 16 VOTING By law, directors are not permitted to allot new Form of proxy shares or to grant rights over shares unless If you are a registered shareholder you will find authorised to do so by shareholders.
In addition, enclosed a form of proxy for use at the Annual directors require specific authority from shareholders General Meeting.
You will also have the option of before allotting new shares or granting rights over lodging your proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares shares for cash or selling shares out of treasury, held through CREST, proxy appointments may be without first offering them to existing shareholders in submitted via the CREST proxy voting system.
Please either complete, sign and return the form of Resolution 15 gives the Directors the necessary proxy in the envelope provided as soon as possible authority to allot securities up to an aggregate in accordance with the instructions or, alternatively, nominal amount of 7m, 28m ordinary shares, being lodge your proxy vote via the Internet or the CREST equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be current issued share capital calculated exclusive of present at the Annual General Meeting.
This will not any shares being held by the Company in treasury preclude you from attending and voting in person if as at 27 February 2015, being the latest practicable you wish to do so.
date before the publication of the Notice of the All proxy appointments should in any event be Annual General Meeting, with the power to allot returned or lodged so as to be received not later than such securities for cash otherwise than to existing 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The authority and Annual General Meeting.
