Directors Report continued segregation and safe keeping of the Companys Greenhouse gas emissions financial instruments: and monitoring the Companys All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third compliance with investment and leverage limits parties.
As such it does not have any physical assets, requirements.
The Depositary receives for its property, employees or operations of its own and does services a fee of one basis point per annum on the not generate any greenhouse gas or other emissions.
first 1 billion of the Companys net assets and 0.25 basis points per annum on net assets in excess of Foreign & Colonial and F&C that amount, payable monthly in arrears.
Once owned by Foreign & Colonial, F&C is now a large pan-European investment group owned by The Managers fees the asset management arm of Bank of Montreal.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which for the Foreign & Colonial has a long association with F&C, year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market having originally established and developed the capitalisation of the Company.
The fee is calculated business for the purpose of managing its assets and paid monthly and is subject to a deduction as far back as 1953.
Part of the legacy is that the for amounts earned from investments in other names Foreign & Colonial and F&C are often used investment vehicles managed by F&C.
The amount synonymously and incorrectly by commentators in received was 7.9 million 2013: 7.3 million.
However, they are two distinct and 4 on the accounts provides detailed information in completely independent entities.
The Companys relation to the management fee.
relationship with F&C is fully arms-length with no Whilst the funds held in the Global Multi-Manager cross-directorships or common share interests.
portfolio levy management fees, no fees are paid to the Manager for the selection of the funds.
Manager evaluation process F&Cs performance including that of the Manager Sub-managers fees is considered by the Board at every meeting, with a The Manager incurred investment management fees formal evaluation by the Management Engagement from the sub-managers appointed to manage the Committee in January of each year.
For the purposes North America portfolio.
The Company reimburses the of its ongoing monitoring, the Board receives detailed Manager for these fees, which in 2014 amounted to 2.0 reports and views from the Fund Manager on million 2013: 1.8 million see note 4 on the accounts.
investment policy, asset allocation, gearing and risk, together with quarterly presentations on the F&C Private equity managers fees managed portfolio strategies.
Quarterly updates are The fees paid to Pantheon and HarbourVest in respect received from the US sub-managers.
The Board also of the private equity funds of funds amounted to receives comprehensive performance measurement 5.4 million for 2014 2013: 6.0 million of which 0.6 schedules, provided by Morningstar UK Limited million was paid directly and 4.8 million was incurred and F&C.
These enable it to assess: the success indirectly through the funds.
Some of the funds have or failure of the management of the total portfolio arrangements whereby these private equity managers against the performance objectives set by the Board: share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return the sources of positive and negative contribution to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial and stock selection: and the performance of each terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
investment portfolio strategy against its local index, Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated where applicable, and the risk return characteristics by Pantheon and HarbourVest.
The arrangements of the portfolio.
Portfolio performance information is also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of set out on pages 27 and 28.
2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been achieved, would be normal.
26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
