Directors Report continued Form of direction and proportional voting Recommendation If you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings Your Board considers that the resolutions to be Plans, you will have received a form of direction for proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the use at the Annual General Meeting and you will also best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Board have the option of lodging your voting directions therefore recommends that shareholders vote in using the Internet.
F&C operates a proportional favour of each resolution, as the Directors intend to voting arrangement, which is explained on page 24. do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
All voting directions should be made as soon as possible in accordance with the instructions on the form of direction and, in any event, not later than By order of the Board, 96 hours before the time appointed for holding the for and on behalf of F&C Investment Business Limited meeting, so that the nominee company can submit a Secretary form of proxy before the 48 hour period begins.
2 March 2015 30 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement Introduction There is no chief executive position within the The Board has considered the principles set out in Company, as day-to-day management of the the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code Companys affairs has been delegated to the and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Manager.
The following table sets out the number of Code.
The Board believes that during the period Board and committee meetings held and attended under review the Company has complied with the during the year under review.
The Board held a provisions of the UK Code, in so far as they relate to the strategy meeting in November 2014 to consider Companys business.
The Board is also adhering to the strategic issues and also met regularly in private principles and recommendations of the AIC Code.
session during the year, without any representation from the Manager.
Separate working committee Articles of association meetings were also held to consider the AIFMD.
The Companys articles of association may only be Directors attendance amended by special resolution at general meetings Audit Nomination of shareholders.
of meetings 8 5 1 The Board 1 Simon Fraser 8 5 1 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship Sarah Arkle 8 5 n a of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule Sir Roger Bone 8 n a 1 of matters reserved for its decision.
These are Stephen Burley 8 4 n a categorised under strategy, policy, finance, risk, Francesca Ecsery 8 n a n a investment restrictions, performance, marketing, Jeff Hewitt 8 5 n a appointments, the Board and public documents.
It Christopher Keljik 8 5 1 has responsibility for all corporate strategic issues, Nicholas Moakes 8 n a 1 dividend policy, share buyback and issue policy and 1 Attends but is not a member of the Audit Committee.
corporate governance matters which are all reviewed regularly.
Each Director has signed a terms of appointment In order to enable them to discharge their letter with the Company, in each case including responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely one months notice of termination by either party.
At each meeting These are available for inspection at the Companys the Board reviews the Companys investment registered office during normal business hours and are performance and considers financial analyses and also available at annual general meetings.
other reports of an operational nature.
The Board Directors are able to seek independent professional monitors compliance with the Companys objectives advice at the Companys expense in relation to and is responsible for setting investment and gearing their duties.
No such advice was taken during the limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion year under review.
The Board has direct access to act, and thus supervises the management of the to company secretarial advice and services of the investment portfolio which is contractually delegated Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is to the Manager.
responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee The Board has the right of veto over the procedures are followed and applicable regulations appointment of sub-managers recommended by the are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the other meetings are fully recorded through a process approval of private equity and unlisted investments that allows any Directors concerns to be recorded in and all investments in in-house funds managed or the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint or advised by F&C.
remove the Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of the investment management agreement.
Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
Investors in New Zealand The powers of the Board relating to the buying back should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
Report and Accounts 2014 31 Corporate Governance Statement continued or issuance of the Companys shares are explained Board.
The appraisal of the Chairman was covered as on pages 5, 6, 9 and 24. part of the process and led separately by the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmans report on Appointments, diversity and succession planning progress against the objectives was submitted to the Under the articles of association of the Company, Board in January 2015 and new objectives set to take the number of Directors on the Board may be no this further in the year.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Removal of Directors All new appointments by the Board are subject to The Company may by special resolution remove election by shareholders at the next annual general any Director before the expiration of his period of meeting and institutional shareholders are given the office and may by ordinary resolution appoint another opportunity to meet any newly appointed Director if person who is willing to act to be a Director in his they wish.
All the other Directors stand for re-election place.
The provisions under which a Director would by shareholders annually.
automatically cease to be a Director are set out in the The final decision with regard to new appointments articles of association.
always rests with the Board.
A professional search consultancy is appointed for the purpose of finding Independence of Directors suitable candidates.
An induction process is in place The Board, which is composed solely of independent for new appointees and all Directors are encouraged non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the to attend relevant training courses and seminars.
All the Directors have The Board believes in the benefits of having a been assessed by the Board as remaining independent diverse range of experience, skills and backgrounds, of F&C and of the Company itself: none has a past including gender and length of service, on its or current connection with F&C and each remains board of Directors.
All appointments will continue independent in character and judgement with no to be based on merit and therefore the Board is relationships or circumstances relating to the Company unwilling to commit to numerical diversity targets.
that are likely to affect that judgement.
The Board is also of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence Conflicts of interest or contribution of directors of an investment trust A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid company, where continuity and experience can add a situation in which he or she has, or potentially could significantly to the strength of the board.
In normal have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts with the circumstances the Directors are expected to serve interests of the company a situational conflict.
for a nine year term, but this may be adjusted for The Board therefore has procedures in place for the reasons of flexibility and continuity.
authorisation and review of situational conflicts relating to the Directors.
Limits can be imposed as appropriate.
Board effectiveness Other than the formal authorisation of the Directors The 2014 annual appraisal of the Board, the other directorships as situational conflicts, no committees and the individual Directors has been authorisations have been sought.
These authorisations carried out by the Chairman.
This built on the were reviewed in January 2015, and each Director objectives identified from the previous years abstained from voting in respect of their own appraisal for which the Chairman was supported directorships.
by independent consultants, the Board Advisory Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors must Partnership LLP.
The process included confidential also comply with the statutory rules requiring company unattributable one-to-one interviews between the directors to declare any interest in an actual or proposed Chairman and each Director.
The Fund Manager, Head transaction or arrangement with the Company.
of Investment Trusts and the Company Secretary also participated to provide all-round feedback to the 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Audit Committee All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities The Board has established an Audit Committee, the have been carried out over the course of 2014 and in role and responsibilities of which are set out in the January 2015. report on page 37.
The committees terms of reference are available on request and can also be found on the Companys Management Engagement Committee website at www.
Committee The role of the Management Engagement Committee membership is listed on pages 20 and 21 and is to review the investment management agreement attendance at meetings on page 31. and monitor the performance of the Manager for the investment, secretarial, financial, administration, Remuneration Committee marketing and support services that it provides under As the Board has no executive Directors and no that agreement, together with its terms including the employees, and is composed solely of nonlevel and structure of fees payable, the length of notice executives, it does not have a remuneration period and best practice provisions generally.
Detailed information on the remuneration committee was formally established on 1 January arrangements for the Directors of the Company can 2015: its responsibilities during 2014 were carried out be found in the Directors Remuneration Policy and by the Board as a whole.
Directors Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 34 to 36 and in note 5 on the accounts.
Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to review Relations with shareholders and make recommendations to the Board with Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
In regard to: addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are i Board structure, size and composition, the available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and balance of knowledge, experience, skill range general information are available on the Companys and diversity: website at www.
ii succession planning and tenure policy: A regular dialogue is maintained with the iii the criteria for future Board appointments Companys institutional shareholders and with private and the methods of recruitment, selection, client asset managers.
appointment and induction: iv the appointment of new Directors and the Unclaimed dividends reappointment of those Directors standing for The Company has engaged the services of re-election at annual general meetings: Georgeson a subsidiary of Computershare to v changes in committee membership: locate shareholders, or their beneficiaries, who have vi the attendance and time commitment of the lost track or are unaware of their investments.
The Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the service is provided at no cost to the Company: extent of their other directorships: Georgeson retain 10% of unclaimed dividends from vii the question of each Directors independence the shareholder on completion of each successful prior to publication of the Annual Report and claim.
Alternatively, shareholders are given the option Accounts: of contacting the Registrar themselves, thereby viii the authorisation of each Directors situational incurring no charges.
conflicts of interests in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the policy and procedures established by the Board By order of the Board in relation to these provisions: and for and on behalf of F&C Investment Business Limited ix the Directors contract for services and terms of Secretary office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
