Directors Report continued So far as each Director is aware, there is no no agreements between holders of securities relevant audit information of which PwC are unaware.
regarding their transfer known to the Company and The Directors believe that they have each taken all no agreement which the Company is party to that the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors affects its control following a takeover bid.
Details in order to make themselves aware of any relevant of the capital structure can be found in note 18 on audit information and to establish that PwC are the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company aware of the information.
including accumulated revenue reserves, together with the realised capital profits of the Company, are Voting policy available for distribution by way of dividends to the The Manager, in the absence of explicit instructions holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a windingfrom the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the in the use of the Companys voting rights.
All surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders shareholdings are voted at all meetings worldwide pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
where practicable in accordance with F&Cs own Full details are set out in the Companys articles corporate governance policy, which is to seek to of association.
maximise shareholder value by constructive use of At the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April votes at company meetings and by endeavouring 2014, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to to use its influence as an investor with a principled buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary approach to corporate governance.
A total of 8,067,000 shares factors are, where appropriate, taken into were bought back and cancelled, representing 1.4% consideration with regard to investment decisions of the shares in issue at 31 December 2013.
This taken on behalf of the Company.
enhanced the net asset value per share by 0.6 pence.
F&Cs statement of compliance with The UK The purchases were made at prices ranging between Stewardship Code, issued by the Financial Reporting 370.7 pence and 398.9 pence and the aggregate Council in July 2010 and updated in 2012, has been consideration paid for the shares, including stamp reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages duty and commissions, was 30,983,000.
There have and supports F&C on its voting policy and its stance been no buybacks between the date of the year end towards environmental, social and governance issues.
and the date of this report.
The statement is available on F&Cs website at www.
The Board Voting rights and proportional voting periodically receives a report on instances where At 27 February 2015 the Companys 562,292,016 F&C has voted against the recommendation of the ordinary shares in issue represented a total of management on any resolution.
It also expects to be 562,292,016 voting rights.
As at 31 December 2014 informed of any sensitive voting issues involving the and since that date no notifications of significant voting Companys investments.
rights have been received under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Capital structure Approximately 46.3% of the Companys share As at 31 December 2014 there were 562,292,016 capital is held on behalf of non-discretionary clients ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary through the F&C savings plans.
The nominee shares in issue.
There had been no changes to company holding these shares votes the shares the number of ordinary shares as at 27 February held on behalf of planholders who have not 2015 being the latest practicable date before before returned their voting directions in proportion to the publication of this report.
All ordinary shares rank directions of those who have proportional voting.
equally for dividends and distributions and carry Implementation of this arrangement is subject to one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the transfer of securities in the Company, no special the savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit rights with regard to control attached to securities, of 650,000 shares that any one individual investor 24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
