can vote, being approximately 5% of the minimum 11.
The Nomination Committee has considered threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an each Director and the Board has concurred with investor in excess of the maximum limit remain valid, the Nomination Committees assessment that but do not form part of the proportional voting basis.
each Director is independent, continues to make Planholders have the right to exclude their shares a valuable and effective contribution and remains from the proportional voting arrangement.
Borrowings Directors interests and indemnification The Company repaid in full its 25-year 110 million There were no contracts of significance to which the 11.25% debenture stock on 31 December 2014.
Company was a party and in which a Director is, The 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock or was, materially interested during the year.
The Company has the ability to are no agreements between the Company and its use short-term borrowings by way of loans and Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
overdrafts, subject to the limits set out on page 9 in The Company has granted a deed of indemnity the Companys investment policy statement and in to the Directors in respect of liabilities that may the debenture deed.
A borrowing of 100 million is attach to them in the capacity as Directors of the in place with JPMorgan Chase Bank in the currency Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise equivalents of US$80 million and 6,600 million for a to a third party for negligence, default or breach of fixed term of seven years maturing in April 2019.
This deed of indemnity is a qualifying 100 million committed multi-currency facilities are in third-party provision as defined by section 234 of place with Royal Bank of Scotland and Scotia Capital the Companies Act 2006 and has been in force which mature in December 2015 and 2016.
Both of throughout the period under review and remains in these facilities provide for the option to request an place as at the date of this report.
It is available for additional commitment of 100 million.
There is also inspection at the Companys registered office during a multi-currency overdraft facility with JP Morgan normal business hours and at the Annual General Chase.
Further reference is made on page 9 and in Meeting.
The Company also maintains directors and notes 13, 14, 16 and 17 on the accounts.
Directors remuneration report Safe custody of assets The Directors remuneration policy and annual The Companys listed investments are held in safe remuneration report, which can be found on custody by the Custodian, JPMorgan Chase, and who pages 34 to 36, provide detailed information on was reappointed on 22 July 2014.
Operational matters the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the with the Custodian are carried out on the Companys Company.
Shareholders will be be asked to approve behalf by the Manager via F&C in accordance with the the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration on provisions of the investment management agreement.
page 35 excluding the remuneration policy which is The Custodian is paid a variable fee dependent on next due for approval in 2017 Resolution 2. the number of trades transacted and location of the securities held.
Director re-elections The names of the Directors of the Company, along Depositary with their biographical details, are set on pages JPMorgan Europe Limited was appointed as 20 to 21 and are incorporated into this report by Depositary on 22 July 2014 in accordance with the reference.
All the Directors held office throughout Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the year under review and will stand for re-election AIFMD.
The role is a new one introduced by this by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Directive.
The Depositarys responsibilities, which in accordance with the requirements of the UK are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on Corporate Governance Code Resolutions 4 to the Companys website, include: cash monitoring: Report and Accounts 2014 25
