Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Governance section of the annual report confirm that, to the best of their accordance with applicable law and regulations.
knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the directors report contained in the Governance section of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the annual report includes a fair review of the development and European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the performance of the business and the position of the Group, together financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: By order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer prudent: 16 September 2014 16 September 2014 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess a companys performance, business model and strategy.
When arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes including the following: the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management with overall co-ordination by the Chief Financial Officer: an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure factual accuracy: and a draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
58 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
