Section 2: Strategic Report The Company is also seeking to preserve the capital value of a 2.1 Introduction shareholders investment and deliver an element of capital growth.
This Strategic Report sets out: At the time of the March 2013 share capital raising, the target total return was forecast to be circa 7.0% p. a. over the long-term for 2.2 the Companys Objectives: investors acquiring shares at a price of 119.5p per share.
The Board 2.3 the Strategy adopted to deliver these Objectives: still considers this achievable.
2.4 the Companys Business Model: 2.5 the Investment Policy and Current Acquisition Strategy: Part of the attraction of the Groups investment portfolio is its positive correlation to inflation described in more detail in Section 2.6 an Operational and Financial Review for the year, including 2.7.
In making new investments, an important consideration is that KPIs: this correlation is maintained and, where possible, enhanced.
2.7 the Directors Valuation of the Groups Portfolio as at 31 March 2014: As the Group has overseas investments, it has a foreign currency 2.8 the current Outlook: hedging policy explained in Section 2.6 which forward hedges 2.9 the Ten Largest Investments: investment cashflows and seeks to reduce balance sheet volatility from currency fluctuations.
2.10 the key risks and the mitigants facing the Group and its investments: and Whilst the Group does not need to make further investments to 2.11the policies, approach and achievements adopted in achieve the targeted returns, further growth provides the respect of Corporate Social Responsibility.
opportunity to enhance returns and manage any price premium to NAV per share.
Issuing further shares, either by way of a prospectus References in this report to the Company mean HICL Infrastructure or tap issue, is the main mechanism by which the Board moderates Company Limited and together with its consolidated subsidiaries, any share price premium.
New shares are only issued at or above the the Group.
current NAV per share, thus avoiding NAV dilution.
The Companys business purpose is to invest shareholders funds for Non-Financial returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both.
The key non-financial objectives of the Group are: The Company is an investment company with a current portfolio of To seek and maintain strong relationships with all key investments in social, transportation and related infrastructure stakeholders of both the Company and the Groups investments, projects, mostly structured under a public sector infrastructure including clients, local communities, key contractors and procurement model called PFI or PPP in the UK, and PPP or P3 in financial lenders.
Experience has demonstrated that good other countries which has been used by a number of countries over relationships and a positive approach to partnering and working the last 20 years to procure new infrastructure investment.
These together helps to deliver the required investment returns: projects provide serviced assets in a number of sectors including To build and develop a portfolio of investments in infrastructure education, health, justice, road, rail and general accommodation projects and companies with diversified clients, funders and sectors such as libraries, barracks, social housing.
The majority of subcontractors: the Companys investments are in projects which are operational, having successfully completed their construction phase.
To manage the Group and its investments in accordance with the Companys stated Corporate Social Responsibility statements 2.2 Objectives and policies, as set out in Section 2.11: and The aim of the Company is to invest shareholders funds in a Through disclosure, case studies, and site visits, to inform portfolio of lower risk, predominantly operational, infrastructure existing shareholders and potential investors and increase the projects to earn a return that allows the Company to pay a understanding of infrastructure as an investment class.
sustainable annual dividend with the potential for an element of capital growth.
2.3 Strategy New Investments Financial Any new investment that the Group makes needs to meet the In the year to 31 March 2014, the Company was targeting a total Investment Policy published by the Company, as well as the dividend of 7.1p per share and this has been achieved.
The Directors Acquisition Strategy which the Company reviews and publishes have set a target for the year to 31 March 2015 of 7.25p per share regularly both are set out in Section 2.5.
All new investments need which is considered achievable based on current portfolio to support the achievement of the Objectives set out in Section 2.2 performance.
Future targets will be set having regard to the portfolio above, and balance the risks involved against the projected forecast performance and the long-term sustainability of the dividend level.
returns, to enable the Group to achieve its long-term targets without materially changing the risk profile of the Group.
Dividends paid are expected to be cash covered with an allowance for that part of the portfolios assets still under construction.
Part of the Investment Strategy is to acquire new investments which are value accretive to the current portfolio.
Accretion can be achieved The dividend is paid gross as the Company is registered in Guernsey through the initial gross yield, the potential total return, and the and the Company also offers shareholders a scrip dividend alternative inflation correlation.
to cash dividends as this can be advantageous to certain investors.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 9 Section 2: Strategic Report continued When acquiring a new investment, the Group seeks sufficient percentage ownership to allow it to appoint at least one director to the project company board.
The size of a new investment is less important but must be less than 20% of the current portfolio valuation.
The Group seeks new investments in both the UK and in certain overseas countries where there is a well-developed market for infrastructure assets and appropriate laws, regulations and government sponsorship.
Portfolio Diversification The Groups strategy is to have a diversified portfolio by asset type, asset location geography, public sector counterparties, supply chain contractors, and project company managers.
The Board believes diversification is important in the portfolio as it mitigates risk.
As at 31 March 2014, the Group had the following geographic diversity: As at 31 March 2014 Number of Investments Percentage of Directors Valuation England, Wales and Northern Ireland 73 76.8% Scotland 13 15.1% Europe excluding UK 5 6.4% Canada 2 1.7% Each project subcontracts the delivery of services to one or more experienced facilities managers specialising in a particular field e. g. catering: cleaning: security: mechanical and engineering maintenance.
The Groups portfolio of investments has a diversified range of facilities management companies.
Spread of key contractors providing operational services to projects Spread of key project company managers providing SPV services to in the portfolio projects in the portfolio Remainder 11% InfraRed 0% Carillion 17% In-house 14% Other Contractors 21% WSP 3% Galliford Try 3% John Laing 3% Bouygues 12% Interserve 3% Mears 3% Bouygues 12% InfraManagers 4% Vinci 4% LendLease 4% Thales 4% Mill Asset Carillion 4% Management 10% Fluor 5% GDF Suez Cofely 12% Bilfinger 4% KBR 5% Pario 9% Fluor 5% Mitie 8% Sodexo 9% Kajima 6% Balfour Beatty 5% The chart above provides an analysis of the proportionate The chart above shows the proportionate exposure to the main exposure to the key subcontractors as measured against the SPV managers as measured against the Directors portfolio Directors portfolio valuation.
InfraRed does not provide this service to any of the Groups project companies.
Portfolio and Asset Management The active management of investments to achieve the desired investment returns is a key strategy.
With oversight from the Company, the Investment Adviser is tasked with the day-to-day management of the portfolio and reports to the Board formally on a quarterly basis or more frequently if there are matters to discuss, note and approve.
This management task is carried out by two functions with the Investment Advisers team: Portfolio Management and Asset Management.
