Section 2: Strategic Report continued Additional Sensitivities The Investment Adviser has prepared two additional sensitivities this year, for lifecycle and tax rates.
Lifecycle also called asset renewal or major maintenance concerns the replacement of material parts of the asset to maintain it over the concession life.
It involves larger items that are not covered by routine maintenance and for a building will include items like the replacement of boilers, chillers, carpets and doors when they reach the end of their useful economic lives.
The lifecycle obligation, together with the budget and the risk, is usually either taken by the project company and hence the investor or is subcontracted and taken by the FM contractor.
The lifecycle sensitivities consider a -10% change to the projected budget for lifecycle where the risk is taken by the project company.
Of the 20 largest assets, only 11 have lifecycle as a project company obligation i. e. not subcontracted.
This is broadly typical of the portfolio as a whole.
The tax sensitivity looks at the effect on changing the tax rates by -5% each year and is provided to show that tax can be a material variable in the valuation of investments.
The analysis to prepare the above sensitivities was carried out on the 20 largest investments 60% of the portfolio by value.
Change in assumption -10% change p. a.
1 Lifecycle 11 investments Change in value 4.9% increase -4.9% decrease Change in assumption -10% change p. a.
2 Lifecycle 20 investments Change in value 2.6% increase -2.6% decrease Change in assumption -5% change in rate p. a.
Tax Rates Change in value 3.2% increase -3.3% decrease 1.
Sensitivity on the 11 investments where the project company retains the lifecycle obligation, within the 20 largest investments.
Sensitivity based on 20 largest investments, of which only 11 have lifecycle as a project company obligation.
2.8 Outlook Portfolio The current portfolio is performing as expected with no material With the maturing of the infrastructure asset class and the greater operating issues.
This is due in part to the successful value accretive understanding of its positive investment attributes by the broader acquisitions made over the last two years which have been operating investment community, more investors have been seeking to acquire and performing in-line or ahead of projections.
stabilised operational assets in the secondary market.
Although the Company was one of the first entrants to the market back in 2006, it Provided unforeseen issues do not arise, the Board is confident that has been followed by further listed and unlisted infrastructure funds the current portfolio can continue to deliver the targeted returns for and, more recently, by institutional investors making direct the Company.
Through careful management, outperformance is investments into the asset class.
At the same time, the majority of the possible and the Board regularly reviews the opportunities for this available equity stakes in the 600 UK social infrastructure projects with the Investment Adviser.
have been acquired by long-term, buy-and-hold end investors.
The result in the UK is a reduced supply of potential new investment As noted in Section 2.6, the Company intends to move to paying opportunities, with a growing number of investors seeking this type quarterly interim dividends to give investors a more regular of investment.
The first quarterly interim dividend for the year to 31 March 2015 will be announced at the end of July 2014 and paid at the end Procurement of new infrastructure projects in the UK which would be of September 2014. attractive to the Group remains slow and offers limited potential.
Infrastructure Market Developments UK However, new investment opportunities continue to arise in the UK The Companys focus has been mainly on secondary, or operational, secondary market and, even with more intense competition, the infrastructure assets, particularly in the UK which has a long history Group is cautiously confident of sourcing new investments with of public sector procurement as a consequence of which it now has similar risk reward dynamics to the existing portfolio.
the largest number of operational social infrastructure projects of any global economy.
30 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Infrastructure Market Developments Europe, Australia and North America Outside the UK, investment opportunities vary by country, but with active procurement programmes, the number of potential new investment opportunities continues to grow and the Investment Adviser is using its wide network of relationships to source new opportunities, through the InfraRed offices in New York, Paris and Sydney.
In Europe, the Company made its first two investments in France in January.
These were originated through the Investment Advisers relationship with the Bouygues Group and the Company is optimistic of sourcing further investments in France.
In May 2014, the Group secured its third investment in Ireland, an availability-revenue road currently under construction.
The number of projects being procured in France, Belgium and the Netherlands continues to grow and we expect further investment opportunities to arise in the secondary market.
There are also several larger multi-jurisdictional portfolios expected to be marketed during the coming year as some unlisted funds mature and look to realise gains for their investors.
Competition is expected to be fierce and the Company will continue to be cautious rather than risk overpaying.
The Australian market offers promise with the recently-elected Government indicating its intention to use infrastructure investment, including PPP procurement, as a driver of domestic growth.
Whilst the Australian economy is well developed and political risk is low, the long-term foreign exchange and inflation rate risks relative to Sterling are less predictable.
Nevertheless, provided new investments meet the investment criteria and objectives on a risk adjusted basis, further opportunities will be considered.
In North America, the largest PPP market remains Canada where there continues to be strong support for P3 procurement.
Unfortunately, the tax breaks afforded to domestic pension funds make it challenging for foreign investors to compete for many operational infrastructure assets.
The US is a potentially much larger but longer term opportunity.
The pace of primary procurement is gradually increasing and, as projects become operational, a secondary market of investment opportunities will develop.
The Groups Investment Pipeline and Acquisition Approach In the UK, the imbalance between supply and demand for these assets has been driving up the pricing of social and transportation infrastructure investments.
The Group has been unsuccessful in a number of auction processes in the last year with pricing levels that the Investment Adviser believes would dilute the Companys ability to meet the return objectives to shareholders.
Typically these processes have related to larger investments where the scale of the opportunity attracts a broader universe of bidders.
Participating in auction processes is time consuming and often fruitless, but this provides valuable insight into how other parties are pricing investments: not just the yield they are prepared to accept but, to a degree, the underlying cashflows which they assume.
The Investment Adviser is successfully deploying an acquisition strategy built on long-established relationships and direct negotiations with potential vendors.
Together with buying incremental stakes in existing projects, the Company has been able to make value-accretive acquisitions without compromising on returns or by making unrealistic assumptions on future forecast cashflows.
The Group has also considered assets which some consider too small or too complex, but which can often offer attractive returns.
In addition, the Investment Adviser is actively exploring new investment opportunities outside the UK in developed markets.
Only those which fit the Companys Investment Policy and pricing disciplines are considered.
Significant due diligence is undertaken in-house by the Investment Adviser before any third-party costs are incurred.
Although there is no exclusive  in respect of investments being sold by other infrastructure funds managed by the Investment Adviser, the Company may benefit from these opportunities, and the Board continues to ensure shareholders interests are protected through establishment of a buy-side engagement committee and independent third-party valuation.
The Companys current portfolio mix geographically is not expected to alter materially, and similarly, the Groups exposure to investments under construction will not materially increase.
This is due, in part, to the Groups largest asset in construction, the Allenby and Connaught MoD accommodation project, being expected to achieve final completion this summer.
Overall, the Group still believes it will be able to make further investments in the UK and, selectively, overseas but the rate of growth will be determined by the extent to which price competition impacts value.
