Section 2: Strategic Report continued 2.9 Ten Largest Investments Set out below are details of the ten largest investments in the portfolio and details of each project.
As at 31 March 2014, the largest investment the Home Office project accounted for less than 7% 2013: 8% of the portfolio.
Directors Valuation 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 Project Valuation as a Valuation as a percentage of percentage of Directors portfolio Directors portfolio valuation valuation million million Directors Valuation m 1,500.6 1,213.1 Allenby & Connaught 5% n a Birmingham Hospitals 3% 3% Colchester Garrison 4% 4% Connect 4%5% Dutch High Speed Rail Link 5% 7% Edinburgh Schools 2% 3% Highland Schools 3% 3% Home Office 7% 8% Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital 2% 3% Queen Alexandra Hospital 5% 6% Total ten largest investments 40% 45% Allenby and Connaught Ministry of Birmingham Hospitals Defence Accommodation % of Portfolio: 3% % of Portfolio: 5% Equity interest: 30.0% Equity interest: 12.5% Payment Basis: 100% availability Payment Basis: 100% availability Co-Shareholder s : Balfour Beatty, InfraRed Yield Fund Co-Shareholder s : Innisfree, InfraRed Yield Fund, KBR The Birmingham Hospitals project is a 40 year concession to design, The Allenby and Connaught MoD PFI Project is a 35 year concession construct, finance and maintain a new acute hospital and six new to design, build, finance and operate new and refurbished MoD mental health facilities in Birmingham for the University Hospitals accommodation across four garrisons on Salisbury Plain and in Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust and the Birmingham and Solihull Aldershot, comprising working, leisure and living quarters as well as Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust respectively.
The Project reached financial close in April 2006 and construction is being undertaken by a joint venture between The new acute hospital and mental health facilities were built by a subsidiaries of Carillion and KBR Holdings LLC KBR.
joint venture between Balfour Beatty Construction Limited and Balfour Beatty Engineering Services Limited under a 553 million Some limited works remain to be delivered over the next six months fixed-price construction contract.
The new buildings were built in to complete the construction obligations of the project.
The mental health facilities were handed over in joint venture between subsidiaries of Carillion and KBR is providing 2008 and provide for 235 beds across 6 new psychiatric facilities.
the FM services to the project The acute hospital was substantially completed and handed over in HICL acquired a 12.5% stake in the project in June 2013 from a September 2011, with the remaining works finished in August 2012.
The subsidiary of Carillion plc.
hospital provides for 1,213 inpatient beds and 30 operating theatres.
HICL acquired a 30% stake in the project in May 2012 from a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland shortly before final completion of construction.
32 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Colchester Garrison Connect, London % of Portfolio: 4% % of Portfolio: 4% Equity interest: 56.0% Equity interest: 33.5% Payment Basis: 100% availability Payment Basis: 100% availability Co-Shareholder s : Sir Robert McAlpine, Sodexo, InfraRed Yield Fund Co-Shareholder s : Thales, John Laing Infrastructure Fund The Colchester Garrison project is a 35 year concession to design, CityLink Telecommunications Limited CityLink, the project construct, finance and maintain a new garrison facility at Colchester, company, has a 20 year concession which runs until November Essex for The Secretary of State for Defence the MOD.
The new 2019 to upgrade London Underground Limiteds existing radio garrison has been built partly on an existing garrison site and partly and telecommunications systems and implement and operate a on an adjacent brownfield site owned by the MOD.
involved capital expenditure of approximately 550 million, the project reached financial close in February 2004.
Fluor Enterprises was subcontracted to provide the engineering, procurement, design and construction for installation of the new The completed garrison facility provides accommodation for transmission network and radio systems.
Thales Transport and approximately 3,500 military and 750 civilian personnel.
Construction Security Limited is subcontracted to operate the existing and new was by Sir Robert McAlpine Limited and is now complete.
systems for the life of the project under an operations and maintenance contract.
Catering, cleaning and transport services are provided by Sodexo Defence Services Limited.
Sodexo Property Solutions Ltd formerly known as WS Atkins Facilities Management Limited is responsible for estate and grounds maintenance, contract management and security, waste management and lifecycle.
Strong partnership relationships continue with the garrison remaining at peak capacity.
Operations continue in a steady state with minimal deductions and good customer satisfaction.
There is ongoing work to identify operational savings including energy efficiencies.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 33 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Dutch High Speed Rail Link Edinburgh Schools % of Portfolio: 5% % of Portfolio: 2% Equity interest: 43.0% Equity interest: 100.0% Payment Basis: 100% availability Payment Basis: 100% availability Co-Shareholder s : Innisfree, Fluor, Royal BAM Co-Shareholder s : n a The project is a 25 year concession with the State of the Netherlands, The Edinburgh Schools project is a 31.5 year concession for the represented by the Minister of Transport, Public Works and Water design, construction, finance and maintenance of six secondary and Management and the Minister of Finance and is the largest PPP two primary schools, along with routine and major lifecycle contract ever awarded by the Dutch State.
More specifically the maintenance for the life of the concession on behalf of the Edinburgh project involves the design, construction, financing, operation and City Council.
maintenance of one of the largest high speed railway projects in Europe.
The project involved capital expenditure of over 625 million The new schools are located on seven sites in and around Edinburgh, on the construction of track, noise attenuation, catenary, signalling, Scotland and have capacity for 6,580 pupils including 80 nursery, 800 2 traction power distribution and  primary and 5,700 secondary and have a built up area of 97,000m.
The project reached financial close in October 2001 and construction was completed in 2007.
The schools were constructed by Laing ORourke under a 165m fixed-price construction contract between 2007 and 2010 and have The project is responsible for maintenance of the system and been operational since between November 2008 and January 2010. substructure and the undertaking of renewals works during the concession period.
The provision of rolling stock is constructed Mitie PFI Limited provides both the hard and soft facilities outside the scope of this project.
The availability-based revenues management services and lifecycle obligations to the Project, under due from the Dutch State are measured, inter alia, by reference to a concession life contract.
any delays to trains, and are independent of the level of traffic.
The project has additional obligations in relation to safety management and liaison with the State, the regulator, traffic allocator, traffic controller, the owner of the existing and connecting infrastructure as well as the substructure contracts.
Maintenance obligations are carried out by a joint venture comprising Siemens Nederland By, Koninklijke BAM NBM NV and Fluor Infrastructure BV.
Availability has been at 100% for almost the entire period and only minor deductions have been incurred.
34 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Highland Schools The Home Office, London % of Portfolio: 3% % of Portfolio: 7% Equity interest: 100.0% Equity interest: 100.0% Payment Basis: 100% availability Payment Basis: 100% availability Co-Shareholder s : n a Co-Shareholder s : n a The Highland Schools PFI project is a 30 year concession with the The Home Office Headquarters project is a 29 year concession Highland Council to design, build, finance and operate eleven urban commissioned by the Home Office to design, build, finance, operate and rural schools with a total capital value of 143 million.
The and maintain a new headquarters building to replace their existing project comprises five primary schools, three secondary schools, a London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices.
combined primary and secondary school, and a special needs The new building occupies the site of the former Department of school.
The project reached financial close in April 2006.
Environment in Marsham Street in Westminster.
Morrison Construction commenced the building phase in 2006 on the The project involved capital expenditure of approximately 200 million 11 new schools and community facilities built through the Highland and the demolition of the existing offices on a 4.3 acre site and the Councils second Public Private Partnership PPP programme.
construction of a Terry Farrell Partners-designed building comprising 2 three purpose built interconnecting office blocks totalling c. 75,000m, Facilities management is the responsibility of Morrison Facilities for up to c. 4,000 staff.
Construction was carried out by Byhome Services and the project is financed through long-term fixed-rate Limited, a joint venture between Bouygues UK Limited and its sister guaranteed senior secured bonds and a EIB loan.
The contractual facilities management company Bouygues Energies and Services payment mechanism is an availability payment based on availability BES, both subsidiaries of Bouygues Construction S. A. of accommodation facilities and the level of service performance.
Construction was completed and has been occupied by the Home Office since January 2005.
The services being provided include security, health and safety, cleaning, catering and energy management.
Operations are managed by BES.
The Project Company, the Authority and BES are working in partnership to reconfigure the existing office space to facilitate the move of the Department for Communities and Local Government DCLG into 2 Marsham Street by September 2014.
