Section 2: Strategic Report continued Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth % of Portfolio: 2% % of Portfolio: 5% Equity interest: 100.0% Equity interest: 100.0% Payment Basis: 100% availability Payment Basis: 100% availability Co-Shareholder s : n a Co-Shareholder s : n a This project involves the design, construction, management, The Queen Alexandra Hospital project is a 35 year concession to financing, operation and maintenance of a new wing adjacent to the design, build, finance and maintain a combination of new-build and former Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford.
The concession runs until retained estates for the Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust.
The new hospital buildings were developed and built by Carillion The new wing was constructed by Carillion Construction Ltd and Construction Ltd, a subsidiary of Carillion.
The majority of the new reached operational completion in December 2006.
The new facilities have been operational since June 2009, with capital facilities built under the contract formed the West Wing and the expenditure of approximately 255 million.
The completed hospital has 1,026 inpatient beds, 34 neonatal A number of adult and children services were relocated from the intensive care cots, 3 endoscopy suites and 20 main operating Radcliffe Infirmary and other sites within the Oxford Radcliffe theatres.
The concession contract runs until December 2040.
Hospitals NHS trust to centralise them into one facility.
A subsidiary of Carillion provides facilities management services to Facilities management services are subcontracted to Carillion the project under a long-term services agreement.
Services Ltd. Whilst facilities management project performance continues to be generally satisfactory, service levels in the Estates Maintenance service are still being monitored closely and recommendations from an improvement plan commissioned by the project company are being implemented.
2.10 Risks and Risk Management Overview The Company has put a risk management framework in place covering all aspects of the Groups business.
As the Company is an Investment Company, it outsources key services to the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on these service providers own systems and controls, details of which the Board has received and reviews annually.
Under direction from the Board, the identification, assessment and management of risk are integral elements of the Investment Advisers and the Operators work in both the management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
The Board and in future the newly formed Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular board meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix developed and monitored in conjunction with the Investment Adviser.
This review includes consideration of any new circumstances which could arise creating additional risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and implemented, together with appropriate monitoring by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers at least annually and this review includes a consideration of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
The Investment Advisers risk and compliance team has developed a detailed self-assessment internal control report, and this is reviewed and debated on a quarterly basis by the Board.
In addition, on an annual basis the Investment Advisers risk and compliance team reviews compliance against the documented procedures and controls, and reports its findings to the Board.
36 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Given the limited number of disposals from the portfolio and the similar risk profile of new investments compared to the existing portfolio i. e. they are all social and transportation infrastructure projects and the majority are in the UK with broadly similar contractual structures, the type and nature of the risks in the Group do not materially change from year to year.
The Risk Committee As noted in Section 2.4, the Company is deemed to be an AIF under AIFMD currently being implemented across Europe.
Having taken appropriate advice the Board has determined the most appropriate status for the Company is to be a self-managed AIF and expects to complete its registration with the appropriate regulatory authorities prior to the expiry of the AIFMD transitional period on 22 July 2014.
The current working practices that the Board has with the Investment Adviser and other key service providers mean that only a small number of changes are needed to implement being a self-managed AIF.
The Board has decided to formalise its oversight of the risk management function through new documentation and amending certain procedures.
As previously, the Investment Adviser is required to consult with the Board and seek approval, prior to carrying out third party due diligence or making an investment which falls outside the parameters agreed with the Board previously.
At the most recent Board meeting in May 2014, the Directors resolved to establish a formal sub-committee of the Board, the Risk Committee, which would meet at least every quarter to discuss all matters relating to the risks to which the Group is exposed and their management and mitigation.
The relevant agenda items would no longer be part of the main Board meeting or the other Board sub-committees but fall within the remit of the Risk Committee which will consider the matters and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Mr Ian Russell will be the Chairman of the Risk Committee whose first meeting will be held in July 2014.
The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups portfolio and to individual investments in the Company as at 26 February 2013 in the Companys New Ordinary Shares Prospectus, which is available from the Companys website.
These risks and possible mitigants are summarised below under five key risk areas External: Strategic: Management: Investment: and Financial and Treasury.
External Risks The Group currently has a broad exposure to social and transportation infrastructure markets in the UK, Australia, Canada and the EU currently France, Ireland and the Netherlands.
The Group has investments, business activities, registered companies and limited partnerships in the UK, Luxembourg and Guernsey.
These activities and entities can be affected by changes in economic factors, local legislation, taxation and regulatory frameworks.
Risk Mitigants Economic Factors The performance of the portfolio is affected Most, if not all of the projects mitigate to by a number of economic factors including some extent against changes in inflation inflation rates, interest rates, and foreign rates by seeking to match their indexation of exchange rates.
contractual revenues to their indexation of contractual costs.
This is not always achievable where costs are not indexed, an example being where bank debt interest rate exposure has been swapped into a fixed rate.
Since 2009 UK RPI has been positive: however, if the UK were to enter an environment of falling inflation such that RPI was below 2.75% p. a. on average for the remainder of the current projects lives, or deflation took hold for a sustained period, the valuation of the portfolio would be adversely impacted, and in a period of sustained deflation, projects could suffer defaults under their loan arrangements as the free cashflows to service debt in a deflation period would decline in nominal terms.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 37 Section 2: Strategic Report continued External Risks continued Risk Mitigants Changes in Law and Legislation New laws and regulations are introduced Most social and transportation infrastructure which could negatively impact the operation concessions provide some or total protection, of the underlying investments.
through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the services are provided.
Tax and Accounting Changes in tax legislation and accounting Where possible, this will be mitigated, but practices can affect both the individual there will be instances where this may not investments and have an impact on be possible and in these instances there the Groups corporate subsidiaries and could be an adverse impact on the financial corporate structure.
Political There is UK Government initiative to find The Investment Advisers asset management efficiency savings in UK PFI PPP projects team continues to pro-actively assist clients which could affect the Groups investments.
Where possible we transfer our knowledge of potential efficiencies from one project to others within the Groups portfolio for the benefit of all stakeholders.
There is a risk, albeit low, that a political Each of the Groups projects is structured decision could be taken to seek to with a legally binding contract with a public unilaterally change the terms of a contract.
Although such a development would have wide ranging implications for the market, if it were attempted and was successful, the value of the Groups investment portfolio and its ability to meet target distributions would be affected.
If a public sector client has financial Although rare, there have been cases in the difficulties and is unable to meet its health sector, for a UK healthcare trust to find obligations to pay under a concession itself running a budget deficit and potentially agreement, this could have a material unable to meet its ongoing liabilities.
impact on that projects cashflows.
Where this occurs, the local health economy has typically been reorganised such that the PFI PPP obligations are met by a solvent entity for the remainder of the contract.
However, there is a risk that such situations may not always result in an outcome which is favourable to the investors of the project.
If there is Scottish independence resulting The Group currently has 12 investments from a yes vote in the September 2014 located in Scotland representing 14% of referendum this could have an impact on the portfolio by value as at 31 March 2014. the Groups Scottish investments.
If Scotland becomes independent from the UK at some point thereafter, it is currently unclear exactly what the economic impact this could have on the Groups Scottish investments.
Once the outcome is known the Board will take the appropriate steps to protect the value of these investments.
38 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 External Risks continued Risk Mitigants Regulatory If there are changes to regulations, these The Company is an Authorised Closedcould have a negative impact or cost for the Ended Investment Scheme.
The Investment Company, Group or the Investment Adviser.
Adviser is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK.
Both the Company and its advisers continually monitor any potential or actual changes to regulations to ensure both the Group and its service providers remain compliant.
On 1 January 2014 the Financial Conduct Authority FCA introduced new rules relating to the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes and close substitutes.
Following the receipt of legal advice, the Board has confirmed that it is exempt from these rules as it conducts the Companys affairs, such that the Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it were resident in the United Kingdom.
There is a risk that the FCA may, at some point in the future, not permit this form of exemption from the rules which could potentially have a negative impact on the demand for the Companys shares.
Cyber Threat There is a risk of a cyber-attack which affects The Group has no dedicated IT systems as it either the Groups or an a Project Companys relies on those of its services providers.
The IT systems, causing theft or loss of data.
Investment Adviser has IT systems designed to withstand a cyber-attack and these systems are tested annually against these threats by a specialist third party.
Project Companies tend not to have their own IT systems and rely on their subcontractors and management companies.
Data is normally backed up and the risk should data be corrupted or stolen is considered low.
Financial Risks The ability of the Company to achieve further growth in its annual dividend and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent on a number of economic factors outside the Companys control.
Risk Mitigants Financial Objectives The Company fails to achieve its published Whilst reasonable assumptions have been financial objectives.
factored into business plans, significant external factors could materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its financial objectives.
Examples of such events include a prolonged period of deflation, a rise in corporation tax rates, and changes in tax legislation affecting the Group and its investments.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 39 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Financial Risks continued Risk Mitigants Share Price Premium Discount to NAV The Companys shares trade at a large The Company publishes a NAV per share premium or discount to the last published twice a year.
The method of valuing the NAV per share.
Groups investments is described in detail in Section 2.7.
To assist in managing the share price premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the powers to both buy back shares as well as issue additional shares via tap issues or full equity raisings.
There is no guarantee that these measures will minimise the discount or premium to NAV.
Management Risks The Management Engagement Committee reviews the performance of each service provider on an annual basis and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and controls in place in relation to the services they provide to the Group.
The most recent review was in February 2014.
Any performance issues are monitored carefully, and if the Board is not satisfied with the level of service delivery, the Board will seek to change service providers.
Risk Mitigants Reliance of Service Providers The Group is heavily reliant on the The Board takes comfort from the fact that Investment Adviser for the day-to-day the Investment Adviser has a track record in management of the Group and to achieve the managing infrastructure investments and Groups objectives.
The Investment Adviser is has developed an appropriate and detailed supported by other service providers to the set of policies, procedures, compliance Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or systems, and risk controls.
The Investment another service provider could have a Adviser has recruited additional staff within material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss its infrastructure team over the last year, of key personnel from a service provider and this has increased the team on which may have an impact on the performance of the Group relies.
The Investment Adviser is subject to routine review and the Board is satisfied that there is sufficient depth of expertise within the Investment Advisers team for the Group not to be reliant on any single individual.
For good governance purposes the Board has also decided to periodically conduct independent assurance reviews of the Investment Advisers current policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls.
40 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Investment Risks There are a number of risks associated with making and managing new investments, which are set out below with possible mitigants.
Risk Mitigants Due Diligence Acquiring a new investment in an The Investment Adviser and Operator has infrastructure project via a trade sale internal processes and controls, developed involves a certain level of risk.
These are from its experience of managing funds and mitigated where possible by a structured investing in infrastructure, to minimise these process of thorough due diligence, the risks through regular peer group review and agreement of suitable protections in the internal approval processes.
All investment sale and purchase agreements with the decisions are made by an Investment vendor, and site visits to view and inspect Committee which has approved terms of the projects assets.
However due diligence reference to ensure that only those staff with may fail to identify risks and the business appropriate skill sets have been appointed, plan assumptions in the acquisition model any conflicts should they arise are suitably may not subsequently be achieved.
managed, and an appropriate quorum is achieved.
Investment approval is subject to unanimous consent.
Specialist advisers such as lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise this risk.
Operational Budgets Projects have operational budgets which As part of the due diligence process, all include a number running costs, the largest operating budgets are reviewed to determine of which are insurance premiums and if they are adequate.
lifecycle costs if not subcontracted.
There is a risk these budgets may prove insufficient.
In the case of insurance premiums, there is often some protection through contractual premium risk sharing agreements with the public sector client such that when an agreed cap is met the increased premium is mostly, or wholly, taken by the client.
The Group regularly assesses the adequacy of lifecycle budgets where the risk sits with the Project Companies.
Underperformance Once acquired, investments need to The Group seeks active oversight of its perform in line with their business plans.
investments to ensure any trends in Underperformance can be caused by a performance are picked up and if necessary, number of factors, the most likely of which corrected accordingly.
In a severe case, the is the underperformance of a service project can terminate a subcontractor who delivery partner.
fails to perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
The cost of this action would, where possible, be recovered from the previous supplier.
Early Termination There is a risk that an existing project might This risk is not considered to be high due, be terminated, either voluntarily or for in part, to the requirement for the public default.
In these circumstances, the sector client to fund these termination compensation payable may not cover the costs which include the cost of repaying the carrying value of the investment.
debt secured to finance the project.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 41 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Investment Risks continued Risk Mitigants Counterparty Default A key risk within a project is the various The Group is careful to manage its counterparty exposures: the client, the concentration exposures to any one party subcontractors, and the providers of finance carefully.
Whilst the Groups portfolio is and financial services.
currently predominantly made up of UK PFI PPP investments, the Group has eight with AquaSure non-UK investments.
Subcontractor and financial counterparties exposures are monitored and the Group seeks a balanced portfolio with no overreliance on a single party.
Financial and Treasury Risk Mitigants Funding and Liquidity The Groups investments and the Group All of the Groups PFI PPP P3 investments itself require debt finance to achieve its have long-term funding in place and do business objectives.
Lack of funding or not need refinancing to meet their liquidity can create cashflow issues.
The Group has a 150m credit facility which was due to mature in May 2016.
This facility is utilised to make further acquisitions of new investments and there is a risk that it will not be possible to raise equity capital to pay down this facility.
If this proves to be the case, the Group will either need to extend or refinance the facility or dispose of selected investments to enable it to meet its repayment obligations.
Currency The Group has a number of non-UK To date the Group has used a combination investments in local currencies and of balance sheet hedging, through multimovements in foreign exchange rates could currency drawings under its credit facility have a negative impact on the Group.
or through rolling forward sales of the respective currency, and hedging prospective income on a short-term basis through outright forward currency sales.
Interest Rates The Group is exposed to interest rate When the Group draws on its credit facility, fluctuations, both on its borrowing and consideration given to hedging the interest cash deposits.
rate, dependent on how long the debt is likely to be drawn.
The PFI PPP P3 projects which are bank funded have fixed-rate or inflation-linked interest rate hedges in place on their borrowings for the life of the debt to minimise interest volatility.
For other types of loan, such as bond issues, the debt has been issued on a fixed rate or inflation-linked basis for the full term of the instrument.
There are limited ways to mitigate the low interest rates being earned on cash deposits and this is reflected in the Groups valuation and cash inflows.
