Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 1.
Reporting Entity HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2014 comprise the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, together referred to as the Consolidated Group see Note 20.
As a result of changes in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS which have been implemented in these financial statements, there has been a significant change in the way the Company presents its consolidated financial statements.
The Company has early adopted IFRS 10, 11 and 12 as well as early adopted Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
These amendments require that entities categorised as Investment Entities exclude certain investments from consolidation.
The impact of this amendment is described in more detail in Note 2 b.
These changes have resulted in a number of entities that were previously consolidated into the financial statements not being consolidated in these financial statements and in the opinion of the Directors this presents the financial statements in a more consistent manner with the objectives and commercial substance of the Consolidated Groups investments.
The Consolidated Group invests in infrastructure projects in the UK, Canada and Europe.
Of the Consolidated Groups portfolio of 93 investments at 31 March 2014, all have been treated as investments, including 29 entities which would have been consolidated prior to the changes to IFRS 10 for Investment Entities as described in more detail in Note 2.
In accordance with section 244 5 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as the Directors have prepared consolidated financial statements for the period, they have not prepared individual statements for the Company in accordance with section 243 for the period.
Key Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2014.
The consolidated financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently in these consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The Consolidated Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Sections 2.4 and 2.5 on pages 16 to 18.
The financial position of the Consolidated Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Sections 2.6 and 2.7 on pages 19 to 29.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Consolidated Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Consolidated Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects is non-recourse to the Consolidated Group.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Consolidated Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors believe that the Consolidated Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
