Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Our response: Our audit procedures with respect to the above Opinions and conclusions judgements included but were not limited to, forming an arising from our audit opinion independent evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, on financial statements the purpose and design of the Company and of the We have audited the Group financial statements the financial documentation supporting the Directors assessment that the statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company Company meets the definition of an Investment Entity.
and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 March Specifically, we challenged the Directors conclusion that the 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Companys business purpose is to invest for returns solely from Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in capital appreciation and or investment income.
We used our Shareholders Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the knowledge of the Group to challenge the Directors assessment related notes.
In our opinion, the financial statements: as to which entities provided investment related services and so are consolidated within the financial statements.
We have give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at considered the adequacy of the Companys disclosures in respect 31 March 2014 and of its profit for the year then ended: of the application of the Investment Entities Amendments and the have been properly prepared in accordance with International consequent restatement of comparative figures see Note 2b as Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European well as the IFRS 12 disclosure requirements see Note 2c.
Union: and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Valuation of unlisted investments 1,495.5 million : Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 69 accounting Our assessment of risks of material misstatement policy and page 78 financial disclosures.
The risks of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional The risk: The Group measures its investments in subsidiaries judgment, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit holding PFI PPP P3 projects at fair value based on discounted strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the cashflow valuations.
The Investment Adviser performs a valuation efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to of the project portfolio.
The Company also engaged an these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial independent third party valuation expert to perform a valuation statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is of the project portfolio.
The Directors consider the valuations not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not performed by the Investment Adviser and the third party express an opinion on these individual risks.
valuation expert and decide on the appropriate valuation to include in the financial statements.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our The Investment Adviser performs the valuations using forecast audit were as follows: cashflows generated by each project over a long-term period and selects key assumptions such as the discount rate and Accounting treatment for subsidiaries arising from the adoption macroeconomic assumptions such as inflation, interest and tax of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and rates.
The assessment of long-term forecast cashflows and the IAS27 the Investment Entities Amendments.
selection of appropriate assumptions surrounding uncertain Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 69 accounting future events as set out in the key judgements and estimates policy and page 70 financial disclosures.
section of the financial statements are key judgements made by the Directors.
The risk addressed is that changes to the forecast The risk: The Company has applied IFRS 10-12 including the cashflows and the selection of different assumptions may result Investment Entities Amendments for the first time in the year.
The in a materially different valuation for unlisted investments.
directors have concluded that the Company meets the definition of an Investment Entity in IFRS 10 and, as a result, the Company no Our response: Our audit procedures with respect to the valuation longer consolidates its subsidiaries except for those that provide of unlisted investments included but were not limited to, services relating to its investment activities.
Whether the Company communicating directly with the project entities for each of the is an Investment Entity is a key judgement made by the Directors individual investments and meeting the Investment Advisers and has resulted in a significant change to the recognition and asset managers who act as directors on the PFI PPP P3 project measurement of interests in subsidiaries in its financial statements.
companies to identify circumstances which would impact the One of the requirements for a company to meet the definition of an cashflows and the assumptions.
We tested the Investment Investment Entity is that it commits to its investors that its business Advisers controls over the cashflow models used to perform the purpose is to invest for returns solely from capital appreciation valuations of the subsidiaries holding the PFI PPP P3 projects.
The Directors concluded that the fact We challenged adjustments made to the underlying project that the Company generally expects to hold its investments to models by the Investment Adviser as part of the valuation maturity does not preclude the Company from being an Investment exercise.
We also challenged the key assumptions for discount Entity.
The Directors have also made a judgement as to which rates, inflation, interest and tax rates using our own valuation entities in the Group provide investment related services and are specialists and performing benchmarking and sensitivity tests.
consolidated within the financial statements.
The risk addressed is We evaluated the competency of the external valuation expert in whether the Directors have made appropriate judgements in the context of their ability to generate a reliable estimate of the applying the Investment Entities Amendments.
fair value, by assessing their professional qualifications, 62 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014
