Investments Acquisitions and Disposals Acquisitions In April the Company acquired a 60% shareholding in two LIFT Local Improvement Finance Trusts companies, the Medway LIFTCo and the Redbridge and Waltham Forest LIFTCo, for a combined consideration of 9.8 million.
In May 2013 the Company announced four new investments: The acquisition of a 50% stake in the Tameside General Hospital PFI project from Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Limited for 16.0 million and the acquisition of a 33.3% interest in the Addiewell Prison PFI project from a division of RBS for 10.3 million.
The acquisition of a 39% equity and loan note interest in the South West Hospital Enniskillen PFI Project for 20.8 million from FCC Construccin SA.
It is a 33 year concession to design, construct, finance and maintain a new acute hospital and key worker accommodation on a greenfield site at Enniskillen in Northern Ireland and was completed in May 2012.
The facilities include outpatient facilities, an Accident and Emergency unit, a new energy centre and key worker.
The acquisition of a 50% equity and loan note interest for 20.8 million in the University of Sheffield Student Accommodation Project from InfraRed Infrastructure Fund II.
This fully operational project was identified in February 2013 as one of the two Conditional Investments described in the Companys Ordinary Share prospectus issued in February 2013.
In making this acquisition the Group complied with its stated policies for dealing with conflicts of interest.
On 1 July 2013 the Company announced four new investments with an aggregate consideration of 107.9 million: The Salford Hospital PFI Project: The Group acquired a 50% equity and loan note interest in this 35 year concession to design, construct and commission new-build hospital facilities and associated site infrastructure in Salford, Greater Manchester.
The project reached financial close in 2007 and construction of the new facilities was completed in 2012.
The Miles Platting Social Housing PFI Project: The Group acquired a 33.33% equity and loan note interest in this 30 year concession, procured by the City of Manchester Council, to redesign and refurbish approximately 1,500 occupied properties, as well as to build 20 new extra-care homes and 11 new family homes in Miles Platting, Manchester.
The project reached financial close in 2007 and construction was completed in 2012.
The Gloucester Fire and Rescue PFI Project: The Group acquired a 75% equity and loan note interest in this 26 year concession, procured by the Gloucester Fire Authority, to finance, design, construct and subsequently operate and maintain four community fire stations and a SkillZone in Gloucestershire.
The project reached financial close in 2011 and construction of the new facilities was completed in 2012.
The Allenby and Connaught Ministry of Defence MoD Accommodation PFI Project: The Group acquired a 12.5% equity and loan note interest in this 35 year concession to design, build and finance new and refurbished MoD accommodation across four garrisons on Salisbury Plain and at Aldershot, comprising working, leisure and living quarters as well as ancillary buildings.
The Project reached financial close in April 2006 and construction is being undertaken by a joint venture between subsidiaries of Carillion and KBR Holdings LLC.
Construction is due for completion in 2014.
In August 2013 the Company invested 1.9 million in the new Birmingham Dental Hospital and School of Dentistry which is to be developed by Birmingham Community Healthcare NHS Trust together with its partners the University of Birmingham, Birmingham and Solihull LIFT BaS LIFT in which the Group has a 30% equity interest and Calthorpe Estates, and will be one of the largest facilities to have been developed under the NHS LIFT initiative.
It involves the construction of a new 15,465sqm four-storey dental hospital and school of dentistry.
Construction is expected to be completed in 2015.
In August 2013 the Company completed two acquisitions for a combined consideration of 10.2 million: A 50% equity stake in the Newton Abbot Community Hospital Project concession which runs until December 2038 for the construction and operation of a community hospital for Torbay and Southern Devon Health and Care NHS Trust.
This takes the Companys equity stake to 100%.
A further 5% equity and loan notes interest in the Connect Project giving it a 33.5% interest overall.
Connect is a 20 year concession which runs until November 2019 to upgrade and operate London Underground Limiteds radio and telecommunications systems.
In October 2013 the Company completed two acquisitions for a combined consideration of 9.2 million: A 50% equity and loan note stake in the Brighton Childrens Hospital Project, a 37.1 million scheme which involved the design, construction, financing and subsequent maintenance of a new childrens hospital on behalf of the Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals NHS Trust.
The hospital reached Financial Close in June 2004 and has been operational since May 2007 and comprises 100 beds, diagnostic facilities, ambulatory care, teaching areas, two operating theatres and an X-ray facility.
The vendor was Kajima Partnerships.
