Geographic Focus 2.5 Investment Policy and Current The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for the Group to Acquisition Strategy enhance returns for investors are likely to arise outside as well as Investment Objectives within the UK where the majority of the projects in the current The Company seeks to provide investors with long-term portfolio are based.
The Group may therefore make investments in distributions, at levels that are sustainable, and to preserve the the European Union, Norway, Switzerland, the Americas and selected capital value of its investment portfolio over the long-term with territories in Asia and Australasia.
The Group may also make potential for capital growth.
The Company targets an annual investments in other markets should suitable opportunities arise.
distribution of at least 7.10p per Ordinary Share, with the prospect of increasing this figure provided it is sustainable with regard to the The Group will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating on portfolios forecast operational performance and the prevailing investment opportunities in jurisdictions where it considers that macro-economic outlook.
contract structures and enforceability are reliable, where to the extent applicable public sector obligations carry a satisfactory The Company is targeting an IRR of 7 to 8% on the original issue credit rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
price of its Ordinary Shares in March 2006, to be achieved over the long-term via active management, including the acquisition by the Single Investment Limit and Diversity of Clients and Suppliers Group being the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries of For each new acquisition that is made, the Company will ensure that further investments to complement the Current Portfolio and by the the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value or, if it is prudent use of gearing.
an additional stake in an existing investment, the combined value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired greater than Investment Criteria 20% of the total gross assets of the Company immediately post The Groups Investment Policy is to ensure a diversified portfolio acquisition.
The total gross assets will be calculated based on the last which has a number of similarly sized investments and is not published gross investment valuation of the portfolio plus acquisitions dominated by any single investment.
The Group will seek to acquire made since the date of such valuation at their cost of acquisition.
infrastructure equity with similar risk reward characteristics to the current portfolio, which may include but is not limited to : The purpose of this limit is to ensure the portfolio has a number of investments and is not dominated by any single investment.
public sector, government-backed or regulated revenues: concessions which are predominantly availability based In selecting new investments to acquire, the Investment Adviser will i. e. the payments from the concession do not generally depend seek to ensure that the portfolio of investments has a range of public on the level of use of the project asset : and or sector clients and supply chain contractors, in order to avoid overcompanies in the regulated utilities sector.
reliance on either a single client or a single contractor.
The Group will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders by Other Investment Restrictions acquiring more diverse infrastructure investments.
The Directors The Company is subject to certain investment restrictions pursuant currently intend that the Group may invest in aggregate up to 35% of to the UKLA Listing Rules.
These are as follows: its total assets at the time the relevant investment is made in: a The Companys primary objective is investing and managing its project companies which have not yet completed the assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing investment construction phases of their concessions but where prospective risk.
The Company must, at all times, invest and manage its assets yield characteristics and associated risks are deemed in a way which is in accordance with the Investment Policy: appropriate to the investment objectives of the Company.
This b The Company will not conduct a trading activity which is may include investment in companies which are in the process of significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
The Company bidding for concessions, to the extent that such companies form will not cross-finance businesses forming part of the Groups part of a more mature portfolio of investments which the Group investment portfolio: and considers it appropriate to acquire: and or c No more than 10%, in aggregate, of the Companys assets will be project companies with demand based concessions where the invested in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
Investment Adviser considers that demand and stability of revenues are not yet established, and or project companies which The Listing Rules may be amended or replaced over time.
To the do not have public sector sponsored awarded or governmentextent that the above investment restrictions are no longer imposed backed concessions: and under the Listing Rules those investment restrictions shall cease to to a lesser extent but counting towards the same aggregate apply to the Company.
35%, and again at the time the relevant investment is made other funds that make infrastructure investments and or financial instruments and securities issued by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 17 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Group Gearing a requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported The Group intends to make prudent use of leverage to finance the by a report on the Fair Market Value for the transaction from an acquisition of investments, to enhance returns to investors and to independent expert: finance outstanding subscription obligations.
the establishment of Chinese walls between the Buyside and Sellside Committees with appropriate information barrier Under the Articles, the Groups outstanding borrowings, excluding procedures to ensure information that is confidential to one or intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying investee the other side is kept confidential to that side: and companies, but including any financial guarantees to support the provision of a release letter to each employee of the subscription obligations, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Investment Adviser who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Asset Value meaning the fair market value, without deductions for Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall borrowed money or other liabilities or accruals, and including be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee outstanding subscription obligations of its investments and cash to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or balances at any time.
decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside or The Group may borrow in currencies other than pounds sterling as Sellside Committee.
part of its currency hedging strategy.
In considering any such acquisition the Directors will, as they deem Amendments necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee and Any material amendments to the Investment Policy will require the the Groups other advisers, to ensure that the Directors are satisfied approval of Shareholders.
that the terms of any such acquisitions are negotiated on an arms length basis.
New Investments and Conflicts of Interest It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Current Acquisition Strategy Investment Adviser and it is likely that some of these will be In seeking new investments, the Group adopts an acquisition investments that have been originated and developed by, and may strategy which has been consistently applied since May 2009.
The be acquired from, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates or from a focus remains on social and transportation infrastructure such as fund managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates.
In order to PFI PPP P3 concessions, predominantly with availability-based deal with these potential conflicts of interest, detailed procedures contracts and likely to be operational, although projects under and arrangements have been established to manage transactions construction will be considered.
Of possible secondary interest, but between the Group, the Investment Adviser or its affiliates or funds only selectively, are: managed by the Investment Adviser or its affiliates the Rules of Engagement.
If the Group invests in funds managed or operated by debt funding of infrastructure projects without taking an equity the Investment Adviser or its affiliates, the Group shall bear any interest, where attractively priced and appropriately structured: management or similar fees charged in relation to such fund toll roads where there is proven demand history and an provided, however, that the value of the Groups investments in such appropriate risk return profile: and funds shall not be counted towards the valuation of the Groups investments for the purposes of calculating the fees profit share regulated utilities and transmission systems, if of an appropriate payable to the Investment Adviser or the General Partner.
It is possible that in future the Group may seek to purchase certain The Board and Investment Adviser consider the Acquisition Strategy investments from funds managed or operated by the Investment on a regular basis and there is a specific strategy discussion held at Adviser or its affiliates once those investments have matured and least once a year.
to the extent that the investments suit the Groups investment objectives and strategy.
If such acquisitions are made, appropriate In setting the above strategy, the Board and the Investment Adviser procedures from the Rules of Engagement will be put in place to carried out a fundamental analysis of certain market segments to manage the conflict.
ensure they are complementary or additive to the existing portfolio.
All potential investment opportunities are carefully screened by the team, Key features of the Rules of Engagement include: initially to determine whether the opportunity is suitable for the Group, including assessing the counterparties and the jurisdiction.
the creation of separate committees within the Investment Adviser.
These committees represent the interests of the vendors on the one When seeking to acquire an investment, the proposition needs to be hand the Sellside Committee and the Group on the other the fully assessed and vetted by the Investment Committee of the Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length decision making and Investment Adviser, and this committee meets on a number of approval processes.
The membership of each committee is occasions before an investment is acquired for the Group.
Detailed, restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to thorough commercial and technical due diligence is undertaken by minimise conflicts of interest arising: the team and includes a peer-group review.
Third party legal, technical and insurance due diligence is commissioned as a requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct an appropriate to support the acquisition.
independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer for their purchase: 18 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014
