All directors fees paid by the projects are for the benefit of the 2.11 Corporate Social Responsibility Group, and not the Investment Adviser.
The business of the Company is to make investments via the Group in infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage the On a routine basis normally annually, the Investment Adviser portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for undertakes a review to ensure that each key contractor or their shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the Directors group has appropriate ESG policies in place and that these are being have ensured that procedures and policies have been put in place by adhered to in delivery of the services to the project and that further, the Group and its service providers to manage the Group effectively there have been no material breaches of their policies.
During the and responsibly with respect to all the Groups stakeholders.
year the periodic reviews carried out found no issues of concern.
Principles of Responsible Investment As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the Investment The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Principles for Adviser and the advisers, the trading history of potential investment Responsible Investment the Principles, formerly known as the will be assessed to ensure compliance with the Groups ESG policies United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment, which are and that there have been no breaches.
When it is not possible to get widely recognised and regarded around the world.
The principles can comfortable with either a key contractors ESG record or the projects be summarised as follows: ESG performance to date, the investment will not be made.
There were no circumstances in the year where this was the case.
To incorporate Environmental, Social and Governance ESG checks into investment analysis and decision-making.
Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored and To be active owners and incorporate ESG controls into ownership each year a number of Health and Safety audits were carried out by policies and practices.
Health and Safety consultants to ensure appropriate procedures and To seek appropriate disclosures on ESG issues by the entities in policies were in place and being adhered to.
Information on Health which the investments are made.
and Safety is reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
To promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry.
Rather than being project-specific, the Companys ESG policies and procedures have been implemented across the whole portfolio.
This To report on activities and progress towards implementing includes standing agenda items such as: the Principles.
Directors conflicts of interest, which are discussed and recorded The Investment Adviser has incorporated the Principles within its in the company register at each project company Board meeting.
As part of this, it has also been using the If any exist, these are discussed and a solution agreed: Groups role as a shareholder in each project to request that each project company report against the Groups approved ESG policies.
Health and Safety compliance: and The Board believes the Groups ESG policies are appropriate for a Cost saving and or efficiency programme initiatives.
company investing in infrastructure assets and conform to current good practice in relation to corporate responsibility.
With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Investment Adviser has developed appropriate polices and made sure that these are Environmental, Social and Governance Policies adopted by all project companies in which the Group has invested.
All of the Groups investments are in project companies which provide services to their clients and which subcontract the provision of these The Board has reviewed its performance and the performance of its services to specialist facilities management companies.
The Group is service providers over the last 12 months and can confirm compliance entitled to appoint at least one director to the board of each project with the Companys ESG policies.
On the basis of the Investment company and these positions have all been filled by a person Advisers recommendations the Directors have considered the nominated by the Group.
Board meetings are not quorate without the existing ESG policies relative to good industry practice as applicable Groups nominated director being present and this is part of the to an infrastructure Investment Company and believe them to be Groups active oversight of the underlying investments.
governance structures also provide for matters which are reserved for shareholders to determine, those items which directors determine and the routine day-to-day matters that are delegated to the projects general manager and his or her team.
In circumstances where board representation on the underlying investment company with appropriate voting rights and reserved matters to ensure it will be possible to manage the investment and achieve the projected returns is not achievable, it is unlikely that the investment will be approved.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 43 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Specific ESG Initiatives The Highland Schools project in Scotland has maintained its The Investment Advisers asset managers work with both clients and allocation of 5,000 per annum for various community initiatives.
key stakeholders to develop new ESG initiatives and, where possible This year a sensory garden has been developed at a special and appropriate, implement them more widely across the Groups school and a piano provided for a primary school, as well as other portfolio of investments.
Examples of initiatives in the year include: smaller contributions.
There has also been an agreement with the schools to reduce the temperature in much of the school areas by At the University of Sheffield Student Accommodation project, the 2C which has contributed to a significant reduction in energy project sponsors the Universitys Elite Sports Performance usage and consequent cost saving for the local authority client.
Scheme by providing a years free accommodation for a student In Manchester, the Miles Platting Housing project is active in the selected by the University for their gold level award.
To be selected local community and employs dedicated personnel that purely for the scheme a student must be at a level where they represent focus on regeneration activities to deliver long lasting community their country in one of Sport Englands recognised sports.
Two community garden projects have been completed in The Allenby and Connaught Ministry of Defence Accommodation 2013 that are already proving to be a significant focus for links project has a charity support culture that focuses on military between local schools and the Miles Platting residents.
It encompasses direct contributions from the project as In Wales, the Rhonnda Schools project has had another active well as direct contributions from supply chain partners.
There is year with c. 12,500 of direct sponsorship and extensive extensive voluntary support by the local project management team volunteering support that has contributed to the development of including local community activity across schools, scout groups a wildlife garden and allotment in the local feeder school and a bird sanctuary.
As part of the estate redevelopment network, sponsored a rugby tournament, provided kit bags for a programme, micro combined heat and power units and solar local mens and womens rugby team and enabled the schools thermal systems have been included in the latest phases that have facilities to be open over two summer weekends for the local resulted in combined savings of c. 1,300 tonnes of CO per annum.
