Portfolio Management is concerned with the financial performance Asset Management complements Portfolio Management and is and, working closely with the Asset Managers, it seeks to: focused on the successful management and operational performance of the Groups investments.
Activities include: monitor the financial performance of each investment against Group targets and forecasts: the management oversight of each investment through the appointment of a director to each project company board: consider the portfolio composition and mix with respect to achieving the Groups desired target returns within the agreed where the project involves the construction of new facilities, the risk appetite: monitoring of progress to ensure successful delivery: manage the investment cashflows from the Groups investments: the building of closer, open relationships with all parties involved: minimise cash drag having un-invested cash on the balance the facilitation of early resolution of operational issues as they sheet and improve cash efficiency generally: arise, including contractual disputes: and manage the processes and analysis which underpin the draft semithe working together with project companies to achieve contract annual valuation of the Groups portfolio submitted to the Board: variations, both to extend the scope of the project, and to find cost savings and efficiencies.
ensure good financial management of the Group and each investment, having regard to accounting, tax, and debt covenants: manage cash and debt at the Group level: and hedge non-sterling investments.
2.4 Business Model Introduction The Company is a Guernsey-registered investment company with an independent board of directors whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Through the group structure, the Company owns a portfolio of over 90 infrastructure investments and is seeking to protect and enhance value through active management of the existing portfolio and the sourcing of new investments using the expertise of the Investment Adviser.
The Company has a 31 March year-end and announces interim results in November and full year results in May.
It also publishes two interim management statements a year, normally in February and July.
Group Structure The group structure showing the main holding entities of the Group is set out below.
The Group Structure Third party Investors Management administration Independent Directors HICL Infrastructure Administrator Company Guernsey Guernsey company InfraRed Investment Adviser Administrator Luxco1 Sarl SOPARFI Independent Directors Luxembourg Luxco2 Limited partner, Sarl Independent Directors SOPARFI Equity Limited partner Services Management InfraRed Limited Partnership General partner, England Operator Holding Company England Underlying investments H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 11 Section 2: Strategic Report continued The Company has a board of six directors details on whom can be Adviser.
The InfraRed Group currently manages six infrastructure funds found in Section 5.
Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd has been and five real estate funds with total equity under management of more appointed as Company Secretary and Administrator, and the Board than US$7 billion.
The InfraRed Group has over 100 employees and takes advice from the Investment Adviser on matters concerning the partners, based mainly in offices in London and with smaller offices in market, the portfolio and new acquisition opportunities.
Paris, Sydney, Hong Kong and New York.
The two Luxembourg entities Luxco1 and Luxco2 have independent Since 1998, the InfraRed Group including predecessor Boards and take advice on administration matters from RSM FHG organisations has raised 13 private institutional investment funds Associs.
The Investment Adviser owns the general partner of the UK investing in infrastructure and property, in addition to the Group and Limited Partnership and manages the partnership through the The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited which are publicly operator agreement.
InfraRed Capital Partners Management LLP is 80.1 per cent.
owned by 27 partners through The Companys Board and the Committees InfraRed Capital Partners Management LLP, and 19.9 per cent.
The Board of the Company comprises six independent, non-executive owned by a subsidiary of HSBC.
This ownership structure was the directors whose role is to manage the governance of the Company in result of a management buyout of the specialist infrastructure and the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
In particular the real estate business which was previously known as HSBC Specialist Board approves and monitors adherence to the Investment Policy and Investments Limited HSIL which was completed in April 2011.
Acquisition Strategy, determines risk appetite of the Group, sets Group policies and monitors the activities and performance of the Investment The infrastructure investment team within the InfraRed Group Adviser and other key service providers against agreed objectives.
currently consists of 50 investment professionals, all of whom have an infrastructure investment background.
The team currently has The Board meets a minimum of four times a year for regular Board approximately 500 years combined experience in the infrastructure meetings and there are a number of other ad hoc meetings sector, and approximately 270 years with the InfraRed Group dependent upon business need.
In addition, the Board convenes five including predecessor organisations, and has a broad range of committees, including a newly formed Risk Committee, which meet relevant skills, including private equity, structured finance, on a regular basis, such that on four occasions a year the business of construction and facilities management.
the Company spans two days to cover committee agendas.
The Company has an advisory contract with the Investment Adviser Management of the Groups portfolio, as well as investment decisions which can be terminated with 12 months notice.
The Investment within agreed parameters, are delegated to the Investment Adviser, Adviser is also operator of the Groups Limited Partnership, through who reports regularly to the Board.
At quarterly Board meetings, which the Groups investments are held.
Details of the fees paid to operating and financial performance of the portfolio, its valuation and the Investment Adviser during the year are set out in Section 2.6. the appropriateness of the risk and controls are reviewed.
Other Key Service Providers In July 2013, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Apart from the Investment Adviser, the Company and the Group have AIFMD came into force.
The Company is deemed to be an the following key service providers: Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the Directive.
Having taken advice, the Board has determined that the most appropriate Provider Role status for the Company is to be a self-managed AIF and expects to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd Administrator and Company complete its registration before the expiry of the AIFMD transitional Secretary to the Company period on 22 July 2014.
The practical implications of these changes RSM FHG & Associs Administrators of the two are modest, being mainly to formalise the current working practices Luxembourg Sarls into an appropriately documented reporting structure.
Further details are set out in Section 2.10.
Canaccord Genuity Ltd Brokers to the Company Tulchan Communications LLP Financial PR advisers to The Investment Adviser the Company The Investment Adviser since launch is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited formally HSBC Specialist Fund Management Limited until its Carey Olsen Legal advisers to the Company management buy-out in 2011, part of the InfraRed Group.
as to Guernsey law Hogan Lovells International LLP Legal advisers to the Company The InfraRed Group is a privately owned, dedicated real estate and as to English law infrastructure investment business, managing a range of infrastructure and real estate funds and investments.
The InfraRed Capita Registrars Guernsey Registrars to the Company Group has a strong record of delivering attractive returns for its KPMG Channel Islands Limited Independent Auditor investors, which include pension funds, insurance companies, funds of funds, asset managers and high net worth investors domiciled in Lloyds, NAB, RBS and SMBC Lenders to the Group via the the UK, Europe, North America, Middle East and Asia.
150m revolving credit facility The InfraRed Group comprises InfraRed Capital Partners Management The Board reviews the performance of all key service providers on LLP and a number of wholly-owned subsidiaries, two of which are an annual basis.
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority including the Investment 12 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Group Financing, Gearing and Interest Rate Hedging The Companys equity base now comprises almost 6,000 The Boards policy is that the Company should not hold material shareholders, broadly split 50:50 between retail investors and amounts of uninvested cash beyond what is necessary to meet institutions.
With the share liquidity that a larger market outstanding equity commitments for existing investments or to fund capitalisation offers, the Companys shares are increasingly potential acquisitions in the near term.
New investments are attractive to large institutional investors.
typically funded by the Groups revolving credit facility.
The Board will consider the appropriate timing and price for the issuance of new How a new Investment is made shares to repay the debt, in consultation with the Companys broker.
The Group acquires the majority of its investments from vendors wishing to sell equity in projects once they are operational.
In The Company raised 109.0m before expenses of new equity in the addition, the Group will invest in projects during their construction year to 31 March 2014 from tap issues of 66.7m Ordinary Shares in phase when suitable opportunities arise.
Further details of the July 2013 and 17.0m Ordinary Shares in February 2014.
The net Groups Investment Policy and Acquisition Strategy are set out in proceeds from the share issues were used to pay down drawings on Section 2.5. the Groups revolving credit facility.
Under agreed delegations from the Board, the Investment Adviser There was good take-up by shareholders of the scrip dividend identifies potential investments which, if they fall within the alternatives to the two interim dividends with 7.4m 2013: 4.5m Investment Policy and agreed Acquisition Strategy, progress to new Ordinary Shares being issued in April 2013 and December 2013. approval from the Investment Advisers Investment Committee.
Potential acquisitions falling outside these agreed delegations In March 2014 the Group signed an increase and extension to its require Board Risk Committee approval before proceeding.
Similar existing 100m debt facility which was due to mature in February procedures apply if an acquisition is proposed from a fund managed 2015.
The new multi-currency revolving credit facility is 150m and by the Investment Adviser where, in such circumstances, a Buyside is available to be drawn in cash and letters of credit for future Committee is formed, a third party valuation is obtained, the Board investment obligations.
The Company took approves the transaction and shareholder approval is sought for the the opportunity to broaden its credit providers beyond its current related party aspect.
Further details are set out in Section 2.5. relationship banks, Royal Bank of Scotland and National Australia Bank, who jointly provided the existing facility, and include Lloyds As the Group often acquires investment stakes in the secondary Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.
market, the long-term contractual arrangements are already in place with limited scope for amendment during the remaining life.
Prior to As at 31 March 2014, the Groups drawings under the 150m facility acquisition appropriate due diligence is undertaken to ensure the were nil by way of cash and 5.3m by way of letters of credit and projects are appropriately structured, the pass-down of obligations guarantees.
The Group had net cash as at 31 March 2014 of 42.7m to subcontractors is adequate, and that all material counterparties 2013: 146.0m.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published New investments are typically financed by borrowing under the guidance in relation to gearing disclosures which is defined for a Groups committed revolving debt facility.
This allows new company with net cash as the net exposure to cash and cash investments to be made in a timely manner.
equivalents, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
It is calculated by dividing total assets Processes by which the Group bids and acquires new investments less cash cash equivalents by shareholders funds.
On this basis, can vary both in terms of the steps and time taken.
The main the Group had a net cash position of 2.1% at 31 March 2014 2013: methods by which the Group interacts with vendors are: 10.0% net cash.
This analysis excludes any debt in the Groups investments, which are typically leveraged.
by way of an auction process, either run by the vendor or using a third party adviser: Since 31 March 2014, the Group has utilised a further 52.1m in through a one-on-one negotiation with a vendor, usually via a order to make two new investments and the acquisition of an long-standing relationship of the Investment Adviser: and incremental stake.
These are the 5.85% stake in the AquaSure PPP in the case of acquiring additional stakes in existing investments, project in Victoria, Australia due to complete shortly, a 10% by agreement with the co-shareholder.
interest in the N17 N18 Gort to Tuam road PPP in the Republic of Ireland, and a further 16.5% interest equity only in the Miles The typical steps in these processes are set out on the following page: Platting Social Housing PFI project in Manchester.
To manage interest rate risk the Group can use interest rate swaps to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility.
During the year the Group did not utilise any interest rate swaps due to the limited period during which the Group was a net borrower under the facility.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 13 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Typical Acquisition Processes Auction process Agree Shortlisted Receive IM Confidentiality 1 of 3 to 5 Indicative Bid 1 of many Agreement normally BAFO Preferred SPA signed Data room Firm Bid 1 of 2 to 3 Bidder investment made and SPA Negotiated Acquisition Agree SPA negotiated, Informal Financial data Preferred Confirmatory Confidentiality Written Offer signed, discussion received Bidder due diligence Agreement investment made Incremental Acquisition Preferred SPA signed, Discussion Written Offer SPA negotiated Bidder investment made Note: simplified as processes vary on each acquisition process varies Meeting of Investment Committee IM Information memorandum SPA Sale and purchase agreement BAFO Best and final offer Each process involves different steps and varying degrees of due diligence.
The Investment Adviser has been successful in making a number of acquisitions through the negotiated process, thus minimising the transaction risks.
Bid costs are incurred in carrying out due diligence, involving third party advisers, and the Investment Adviser seeks to focus the cost exposure to the later stages of the acquisition process.
For a typical social infrastructure investment, due diligence will include: confirmatory legal due diligence, to check the project is appropriately structured: technical due diligence, looking at the adequacy of the lifecycle budgets and plans compared to the current state of the built asset: insurance due diligence, looking at the level of insurances and likely future premiums: and commercial, valuation, tax and accounting due diligence, normally carried out by the Investment Adviser.
Additional specialist advice is taken when considering investments with variable revenue streams: for example a traffic consultant will be retained when evaluating a toll road investment.
A Typical Infrastructure Project Explained Each investment is made in a project typically with a long-term concession contract with a finite life and limited, if any, residual value.
The counterparty to the concession agreement is a public sector body, such as a local authority for a schools project and a NHS Trust for a hospital project.
The Groups investments are structured as equity, subordinated debt and occasionally mezzanine debt stakes in unlisted single-purpose companies SPC, with the sole purpose of delivering the asset and services in accordance with the terms of the project agreement.
14 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 Typical Infrastructure Project Structure Client Project agreement HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Project Construction Shareholder Financing Company Bonds Loans Partner agreement agreement SPV Operational Partner Construction Operating MSA contract sub-contract sub-contract Maintenance Project Company Construction and FM services management sub-contractor sub-contractor Normally all services specified in the project agreement are subcontracted to specialist providers.
Construction is subcontracted to a construction company or companies in joint venture if a large asset on a fixed priced, date certain construction contract to design and build the asset required under the project agreement.
The operational services such as the provision of catering, cleaning, maintenance, and similar services are subcontracted to a specialist facilities management FM company.
Projects either have a single FM subcontractor or more than one, depending on the services being provided.
Day-to-day management of the SPC is either outsourced on a fixed price contract, or is performed by an in-house team.
Contract terms vary but usually the contract lengths are between 3 and 5 years.
The key performance indicators KPIs and the service levels set out in the project agreement are mirrored as far as possible in the subcontracts such that the operating risks of the project are passed down to the individual subcontractors who are best placed to manage those risks.
The term of the operating subcontracts normally matches the term of the project agreement and the costs of such services are largely fixed at the outset and subject to increases linked to inflation.
The majority of the Groups investments are in projects structured with an availability-based revenue stream such that the public sector client makes a contractual payment under the project agreement provided the asset, such as a school, hospital, prison or road, is available for use.
The availability payments are normally linked to inflation, either wholly or partially, depending on whether the projects costs are indexed or fixed.
Each project is typically leveraged with amortising debt which is fully repaid one to two years prior to expiry of the concession.
The majority of the projects do not require refinancing during their concessions lives.
The interest rate on the debt is either fixed rate or inflation linked, such that changes in interest rates are largely mitigated.
The debt raised for a project is secured against that projects cashflows alone, and so is nonrecourse to both the Group and its other investments.
Most projects are required by their lenders to withhold some cash in reserve accounts to pay for expected future capital expenditure as well as to potentially service debt if there are operating issues.
These cash balances are deposited across a spread of investment grade banks to mitigate default risk and the interest income, which is for the benefit of the project and hence the Groups investment, varies according to short-term deposit rates.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 15 Section 2: Strategic Report continued Valuation and Group Investment Cash Flows As the Groups investments are in projects with long-term contractual income and cost these investments are valued using a discounted cashflow analysis of the forecast investment cashflows from the project.
The key external drivers when forecasting each projects cashflows are the inflation rate: the deposit interest rate: and the local corporation tax rate.
These cashflows are used with a market discount rate to derive the value of each investment.
The Investment Adviser makes forecast assumptions for each of these based on market data and economic forecasts, and the Company publishes twice a year the Directors valuation, the assumptions used and key sensitivities to the valuation of the portfolio see Section 2.7.
The Directors valuation is the key component in determining the Companys NAV and so the Directors seek a third party opinion on the valuation prepared by the Investment Adviser.
In the current portfolio, the majority of projects are operational and so the number of investments with construction risk is small four as at 31 March 2014.
An investment in a project under construction can offer a higher overall return compared to buying an investment in an operational project, but it does not usually yield during the construction period and there is the risk that delays in construction affect the investment value.
The chart below shows the expected future cashflows to be received by the Group from the portfolio as at 31 March 2014 and how the portfolio valuation is expected to evolve over time using current forecasts and assumptions.
Long term income phase Capital repayment phase 300.0 1,800.0 The valuation of the portfolio at any time is a function 250.0 2,3 1,500.0 of the present value of the expected future cash flows 200.0 1,200.0 150.0 900.0 100.0 600.0 50.0 300.0 0 0 -50.0 -300.0 HICL year ending 31 March Distribution Forecast Higher distribution Forecast Portfolio valuation Portfolio valuation Subdebt obligations March 2013 March 2014 March 2013 RHS March 2014 RHS 1.
The chart represents a target only and is not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurance that this target will be met.
Portfolio valuation assumes a Euro to Sterling exchange rate of 0.83, a Canadian Dollar to Sterling Exchange rate of 0.54 and a weighted average discount rate of 8.2% per annum.
These assumptions and the valuation of the current portfolio may vary over time.
The cashflows and the valuation are from the portfolio of 93 investments as at 31 March 2014 and does not include other assets or liabilities of the Group, and assumes that during the period illustrated above, i no new investments are purchased, ii no existing investments are sold and iii the Group suffers no material liability to withholding taxes, or taxation on income or gains.
The chart shows the steady long-term nature of the cashflows from the portfolio, coupled with a stable portfolio valuation to 2029.
The benefit of the new investments made in the year, increasing forecast cashflows and the valuation over time is also shown.
From 2030, based on current forecasts, the portfolio will move into a repayment phase whereby cash receipts from the portfolio will be paid to the Companys shareholders as capital and the portfolio valuation reduces as projects reach the end of their concession term, assuming that the proceeds are not invested in new investments, until 2047 when the last concession ends.
It is these forecast cashflows from the Groups current portfolio of investments that gives the Board the comfort that there should be sufficient cash cover for the target dividend of 7.25 pence per share for the year to 31 March 2015.
