Section 4: Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and Disclosure of Information to the financial statements in accordance with applicable law the Auditors and regulations.
The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is Under that law they have elected to prepare the financial statements no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she adopted by the EU and applicable law.
ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair auditors are aware of that information.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Auditors KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness to In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board Authorised signatory State whether applicable accounting standards have been Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Company Secretary explained in the financial statements: and 20 May 2014 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Registered Office: continue in business.
1 Le Truchot St Peter Port The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Guernsey which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Channel Islands GY1 1WD position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with company law and regulations.
Directors Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group included in the consolidation as a whole: and the management report comprising the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group included in the consolidation taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The annual report and consolidated financial statements when taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
