Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2014 3.
Critical Accounting Judgements, Estimates And Assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
i Investments at fair value through profit or loss By virtue of the Companys status as an investment fund and the exemption provided by IAS 28.1 and IFRS 11 as well as the early adoption of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, investments are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long-term government bond yields, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the PFI PPP P3 investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The weighted average discount rate applied in the March 2014 valuation was 8.2%.
The discount rate is considered one of the most significant unobservable inputs through which an increase or decrease would have a material impact on the fair value of the investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The other material impacts on the measurement of fair value are inflation rates, deposit rates and tax rates which are further discussed in Note 4 and include sensitivities to these key judgements.
ii Investment Entities The Directors have agreed to adopt IFRS 10, 11, 12 and Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 early as permitted following EU endorsement.
As explained in Note 2 c to the accounts on page 75, the Directors are of the opinion that the Company meets the requirements of an Investment Entity.
The Company has subsidiaries that provide investment management services or undertake investment activities which require that their results are consolidated by the Company together the Company and these subsidiaries form the Consolidated Group.
The adoption of this standard requires the consolidated financial statements to include the investments at fair value rather than consolidating their results.
Financial Instruments Fair value estimation The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Consolidated Group uses the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long-term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
Note 2 discloses the methods used in determining fair values on a specific asset or liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the Notes specific to that asset or liability.
