Shareholder information continued Glossary Glossary Term Definition A Adjustable-rate mortgages ARMs Mortgage loans in the US on which the interest rate is periodically changed based on a reference price.
These are included within affordability mortgages.
Affordability mortgages Mortgage loans where the customers monthly payments are set out at a low initial rate, either variable or fixed, before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period is over.
Agency exposures Exposures to near or quasi-government agencies including public sector entities fully owned by government carrying out non-commercial activities, provincial and local government authorities, development banks and funds set up by government.
Alt-A A US description for loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk characteristics than lending under normal criteria.
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears or in a state of delinquency when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations, with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
When a customer is in arrears, the total outstanding loans on which payments are overdue are described as delinquent.
Asset-backed securities Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can comprise ABSs any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages.
B Back-testing A statistical technique used to monitor and assess the accuracy of a model, and how that model would have performed had it been applied in the past.
Bail-inable debt Bail-in refers to imposition of losses at the point of non viability but before insolvency on bank liabilities bailinable debt that are not exposed to losses while the institution remains a viable, going concern.
Whether by way of write-down or conversion into equity, this has the effect of recapitalising the bank although it does not provide any new funding.
Bank levy A levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The amount payable is based on a percentage of the groups consolidated liabilities and equity as at 31 December after deducting certain items the most material of which are those related to insured deposit balances, tier 1 capital, insurance liabilities, high quality liquid assets and items subject to a legally enforceable net settlement agreement.
Bank Recovery and Resolution A European legislative package issued by the European Commission and adopted by EU Member States.
This directive was finalised in July 2014 with the majority of provisions coming into effect 1 January 2015.
This Directive BRRD introduces a common EU framework for how authorities should intervene to address banks which are failing or are likely to fail.
The framework includes early intervention and measures designed to prevent failure and in the event of bank failure for authorities to ensure an orderly resolution.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards, amended by subsequent changes to the capital requirements for market risk and re-securitisations, commonly known as Basel 2.5, which took effect from 31 December 2011.
Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued Basel III rules: a global regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems and International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
Together these documents present the Basel Committees reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector.
In June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to the former document setting out the finalised capital treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral trades.
Basis point bps One hundredth of a per cent 0.01%, so 100 basis points is 1%.
For example, this is used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
C Capital conservation buffer A capital buffer prescribed by regulators under Basel III and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers CCB outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred.
Should a banks capital levels fall within the capital conservation buffer range, capital distributions will be constrained by the regulators.
Capital planning buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by the PRA under Basel II, and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers outside CPB periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred.
Should a banks capital levels fall within the capital planning buffer range, a period of heightened regulatory interaction would be triggered.
Capital requirements directive A capital adequacy legislative package issued by the European Commission and adopted by EU member states.
The CRD first CRD legislative package gave effect to the Basel II proposals in the EU and came into force on 20 July 2006.
CRD II, which came into force on 31 December 2010, subsequently updated the requirements for capital instruments, large exposure, liquidity risk and securitisation.
A further CRD III amendment, updated market risk capital and additional securitisation requirements, and came into force on 31 December 2011.
CRD IV package comprises a recast Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital Requirements Regulation.
The package implements the Basel III capital proposals together with transitional arrangements for some of its requirements.
CRD IV came into force on 1 January 2014.
Capital securities Capital securities include perpetual subordinated capital securities and contingent convertible capital securities.
Central counterparty CCP An intermediary between a buyer and a seller generally a clearing house.
Clawback Remuneration already paid to an individual, which has to be returned to an organisation under certain circumstances.
Collateralised debt obligation CDO A security issued by a third-party which references ABSs and or certain other related assets purchased by the issuer.
CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 470 Term Definition Collectively assessed Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually impairment significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment.
Commercial paper CP An unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts receivable, inventories and meeting short-term liabilities.
The debt is usually issued at a discount, reflecting prevailing market interest rates.
Commercial real estate Any real estate, comprising buildings or land, intended to generate a profit, either from capital gain or rental income.
Common equity tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III that comprises common shares issued and related CET1 share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
CET 1 ratio A Basel III measure, of CET 1 capital expressed as percentage of total risk exposure amount.
Common reporting Harmonised European reporting framework established in the Capital Requirements Directives, to be mandated by COREP the European Banking Authority.
Compliance risk The risk that the Group fails to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice, and incurs fines and penalties and suffers damage to its business as a consequence.
Comprehensive Capital CCAR is an annual exercise by the Federal Reserve to ensure that institutions have robust, forward-looking capital Analysis and Review CCAR planning processes that account for their unique risks and sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress.
Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages multi-seller conduits and SICs.
The multi-seller conduits hold interests in diversified pools of third-party assets such as vehicle loans, trade receivables and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of short-dated commercial paper and supported by a liquidity facility.
The SICs hold predominantly asset-backed securities referencing such items as commercial and residential mortgages, vehicle loans and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt.
Constant currency A non-GAAP financial measure that adjusts for the year-on-year effects of foreign currency translation differences by comparing reported results for the reported period with reported results for comparative period retranslated at exchange rates for the reported period.
The foreign currency translation differences reflect the movements of the US dollar against most major currencies during the reported period.
Constant net asset value fund CNAV A fund that prices its assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the portfolio remaining within 50 basis points of its market value.
Consumer and Mortgage Lending In the US, the CML portfolio consists of our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services businesses, which are in runCML off.
The Consumer Lending business offered secured and unsecured loan products, such as first and second lien mortgage loans, open-ended home equity loans and personal non-credit card loans through branch locations and direct mail.
The majority of the mortgage lending products were for refinancing and debt consolidation rather than home purchases.
In the first quarter of 2009, we discontinued all originations by our Consumer Lending business.
Prior to the first quarter of 2007, when we ceased loan purchase activity, the Mortgage Services business purchased non-conforming first and second lien real estate secured loans from unaffiliated third parties.
The business also included the operations of Decision One Mortgage Company Decision One, which historically originated mortgage loans sourced by independent mortgage brokers and sold these to secondary market purchasers.
Decision One ceased originations in September 2007.
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment principal or interest of any financial instrument is due to be paid, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid.
Core tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital, under Basel II, that comprises total shareholders equity and related non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments.
Core tier 1 capital ratio A Basel II measure, of core tier 1 capital expressed as a percentage of the total risk-weighted assets.
Countercyclical capital buffer A capital buffer prescribed by regulators under Basel III which aims to ensure that capital requirements take CCyB account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate.
This will provide the banking sector with additional capital to protect it against potential future losses, when excess credit growth in the financial system as a whole is associated with an increase in system-wide risk.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk, in both the trading and non-trading books, is the risk that the counterparty to a CCR transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Credit default swap CDS A derivative contract whereby a buyer pays a fee to a seller in return for receiving a payment in the event of a defined credit event e. g. bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency on an underlying obligation which may or may not be held by the buyer.
Credit enhancements Facilities used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.
Credit risk Risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
It arises mainly from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from products such as guarantees, derivatives and debt securities.
Credit risk mitigation A technique to reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure by application of credit risk mitigants such as collateral, guarantee and credit protection.
Credit risk spread The premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower credit quality.
The yield spread between securities with the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different associated credit risks.
The yield spread rises as the credit rating worsens.
Credit spread risk The risk that movements in credit spreads will affect the value of financial instruments.
Credit valuation adjustment An adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the creditworthiness of OTC derivative CVA counterparties.
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders.
Such funds are recorded as liabilities.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 471 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Glossary Term Definition Customer remediation Activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations.
Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints, and not specifically initiated by regulatory action.
Customer risk rating CRR A scale of 23 grades measuring obligor PD.
CVA risk capital charge A capital charge under CRDIV to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk to derivatives.
D Debit valuation adjustment DVA An adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the entitys own credit risk.
Debt restructuring A restructuring by which the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed.
This is often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt.
It can involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction.
Debt securities Financial assets on the Groups balance sheet representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by central banks.
Debt securities in issue Transferable certificates of indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certificates.
These are liabilities of the Group and include certificates of deposits.
Deed-in-lieu An arrangement in which a borrower surrenders the deed for a property to the lender without going through foreclosure proceedings and is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Defined benefit obligation The present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting from employee service.
Deposits by banks All deposits received from domestic and foreign banks, excluding deposits or liabilities in the form of debt securities or for which transferable certificates have been issued.
Down-shock Term given to the effect on our future net interest income of an incremental parallel fall in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2015, assuming no management response.
An equivalent rise in yield curves is referred to as an up-shock.
E Economic capital The internally calculated capital requirement which is deemed necessary by HSBC to support the risks to which it is exposed.
Economic profit The difference between the return on financial capital invested by shareholders and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit may be expressed as a whole number or as a percentage.
Economic Value of Equity Considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that EVE sensitivity would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
Encumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability.
Enhanced Variable Net Asset A fund that prices its assets on a fair value basis.
Consequently, process may change from one day to the next.
Value Fund ENAV Equator Principles The Equator Principles are used by financial institutions to reduce the potential impact of large projects, which they finance, on people or on the environment.
Equity risk The risk arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based instruments, which create exposure to a change in the market price of the equities or equity instruments.
Eurozone The 18 European Union countries using the euro as their common currency.
The 18 countries are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.
Expected loss EL A regulatory calculation of the amount expected to be lost on an exposure using a 12-month time horizon and downturn loss estimates.
EL is calculated by multiplying the PD a percentage by the EAD an amount and LGD a percentage.
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
Exposure at default EAD The amount expected to be outstanding after any credit risk mitigation, if and when the counterparty defaults.
EAD reflects drawn balances as well as allowance for undrawn amounts of commitments and contingent exposures.
F Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique level 2 and level 3 to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
Fiduciary risk The risk to the Group of breaching its fiduciary duties where it acts in a fiduciary capacity as trustee, investment manager or as mandated by law or regulation.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA The Financial Conduct Authority regulates the conduct of financial firms and, for certain firms, prudential standards in the UK.
It has a strategic objective to ensure that the relevant markets function well.
Financial Policy Committee FPC The Financial Policy Committee, at the Bank of England, is charged with a primary objective of identifying, monitoring and taking action to remove or reduce systemic risks with a view to protecting and enhancing the resilience of the UK financial system.
The FPC has a secondary objective to support the economic policy of the UK Government.
Financial Reporting Harmonised European financial reporting framework, proposed by the European Union, which will be used to FINREP obtain a comprehensive view of a firms risk profile.
First lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that places its holder first in line to collect repayment from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a default on the debt.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 472 Term Definition Forbearance strategies Employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession.
Such arrangements include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, other modifications and re-ages.
Funded exposure A situation where the notional amount of a contract is or has been exchanged.
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required.
G Gap risk The risk of financial loss arising from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity.
Global systemically important bank The FSB established in November 2011 a methodology to identify G-SIBs based on 12 principal indicators.
G-SIB Designation will result in the application of a CET1 buffer between 1% and 3.5%, to be phased in by 1 January 2019.
The list of G-SIBs is re-assessed through annual re-scoring of banks and a triennial review of the methodology.
National regulators have discretion to introduce higher charges than the minima.
In CRD IV this is implemented via the Global Systemically Important Institutions G-SII Buffer.
Government-sponsored enterprises A group of financial services enterprises created by the US Congress to reduce the cost of capital for certain GSEs borrowing sectors of the economy, and to make them more efficient and transparent.
Examples in the residential mortgage borrowing segment are Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
GSEs carry the implicit backing, but are not direct obligations, of the US government.
GPSP Awards Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, generally five years from the date of the award, and normally subject to individual remaining in employment.
The shares to which the employee becomes entitled are subject to a retention requirement until cessation of employment.
Guarantee An undertaking by a party to pay a creditor should a debtor fail to do so.
H Haircut A discount applied by management when determining the amount at which an asset can be realised.
The discount takes into account the method of realisation including the extent to which an active market for the asset exists.
Historical rating transition The probability of a counterparty with a particular rating moving to a different rating over a defined time horizon.
matrices Home equity lines of credit HELoCs A form of revolving credit facility provided to US customers, which is supported in the majority of cases by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property.
Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
I Impaired loans Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them later than they are contractually due.
Impairment allowances Managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Individually assessed Exposure to loss is assessed on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not qualify for impairment collective assessment.
Insurance Manufacturing The writing of contracts that fall within the scope of insurance regulation by a Group subsidiary authorised to write such business.
The risks and rewards of writing the insurance business are retained by HSBC or reinsured in line with our reinsurance strategy.
The balance sheet analysis presented in the Risk Management of Insurance Operations section shows the aggregated full balance sheets of these entities.
Insurance risk A risk, other than a financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the insurance provider.
The principal insurance risk is that, over time, the combined cost of claims, administration and acquisition of the contract may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment The Groups own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its risk profile Process from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints.
Internal Model Method One of three approaches defined in the Basel Framework to determine exposure values for counterparty credit risk.
Internal ratings-based approach IRB A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates of risk parameters.
Invested capital Equity capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised or written off.
Investment grade Represents a risk profile similar to a rating of BBBor better, as defined by an external rating agency.
IRB advanced approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD, LGD and EAD models.
AIRB IRB foundation approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of FIRB LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD.
ISDA Master agreement Standardised contract developed by ISDA used as an umbrella contract under which bilateral derivatives contracts are entered into.
K Key management personnel Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings.
L Legacy credit in GB&M A separately identifiable, discretely managed business comprising Solitaire Funding Limited, the securities investment conduits, the asset-backed securities trading portfolios and credit correlation portfolios, derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers, and certain other structured credit transactions.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 473 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Glossary Term Definition Legal proceedings Civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Legal risk The risk of financial loss, sanction and or reputational damage resulting from contractual risk the risk that the rights and or obligations of a Group member within a contractual relationship are defective : dispute risk the risk due to an adverse dispute environment or the management of potential or actual disputes : legislative risk the risk that a Group member fails to adhere to laws of the jurisdiction in which it operates : and noncontractual rights risk the risk that a Group members assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others or the infringement by a Group member of another partys rights.
Level 1 quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Level 2 valuation technique using Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or observable inputs similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
significant unobservable inputs Leveraged finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from sub-investment grade acquisitions or event-driven financing.
Leverage ratio A measure, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and should generally follow the accounting measure of exposure.
This supplementary measure to the risk-based capital requirements is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector.
Liquidity coverage ratio The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
High LCR quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, ideally, be central bank eligible.
The Basel III rules require this ratio to be at least 100% with effect from 2015.
The LCR is still subject to an observation period and review to address any unintended consequences.
Liquidity enhancement Liquidity enhancement makes funds available if required for reasons other than asset default, e. g. to ensure timely repayment of maturing commercial paper.
Liquidity risk The risk that HSBC does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows.
Loan modification An account management action that results in a change to the original terms and conditions of a loan either temporarily or permanently without resetting its delinquency status, except in case of a modification re-age where delinquency status is also reset to up-to-date.
Account modifications may include revisions to one or more terms of the loan including, but not limited to, a change in interest rate, extension of the amortisation period, reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment of principal.
Loan re-age An account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an account to up-to-date upon fulfilment of certain requirements which indicate that payments are expected to be made in accordance with the contractual terms.
Loans past due Loans on which repayments are overdue.
Loan to value ratio LTV A mathematical calculation that expresses the amount of the loan as a percentage of the value of security.
A high LTV indicates that there is less cushion to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding loan balance.
Loss given default LGD The estimated ratio percentage of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default EAD upon default of a counterparty.
Loss severity The realised amount of losses incurred including ancillary amounts owed when a loan is foreclosed or disposed of through the arrangement with the borrower.
The loss severity is represented as a percentage of the outstanding loan balance.
M Malus An arrangement that permits an organisation to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred remuneration award in relation to risk outcomes or performance.
Market risk The risk that movements in market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices will reduce income or portfolio values.
Medium term notes MTNs Issued by corporates across a range of maturities.
Under MTN Programmes notes are offered on a regular and continuous basis to investors.
Mortgage-backed securities MBSs Securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages, which may be on residential or commercial properties.
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and or principal.
When the MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
Mortgage-related assets Referenced to underlying mortgages.
Mortgage vintage The year a mortgage was originated.
N Negative equity mortgages Equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan.
Negative equity arises when the value of the property purchased is below the balance outstanding on the loan.
Net asset value per share Total shareholders equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets net of interest paid or payable on liabilities.
Net interest income sensitivity Considers all pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet, with suitable assumptions for balance sheet growth in the future, and calculates the change in net interest income that would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 474 Term Definition Net principal exposure The gross principal amount of a financial asset after taking account of credit protection purchased but excluding the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a stressed scenario.
Available stable funding would include items such as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over one year.
The Basel III rules require this ratio to be over 100% with effect from 2018.
The NSFR is still subject to an observation period and review to address any unintended consequences.
Non-conforming mortgages US mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria.
Examples include mortgages where the expected level of documentation is not provided such as with income self-certification, or where poor credit history increases the risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate.
Non-trading portfolios Portfolios that comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations.
Non-trading risk The market risk arising from non-trading portfolios.
O Offset mortgages A flexible type of mortgage where a borrowers savings balance s held at the same institution can be used to offset the mortgage balance outstanding.
The borrower pays interest on the net balance which is calculated by subtracting the credit balance s from the debit balance.
As part of the offset mortgage a total facility limit is agreed and the borrower may redraw up to a pre-agreed limit.
Overnight Index Swap OIS A method of valuing collateralised interest rate derivatives which uses a discount curve that reflects the overnight discounting interest rate typically earned or paid in respect of collateral received.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk.
Over-the-counter OTC A bilateral transaction e. g. derivatives that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation models.
P Pension risk The risk that contributions from Group companies and members fail to generate sufficient funds to meet the cost of accruing benefits for the future service of active members, and the risk that the performance of assets held in pension funds is insufficient to cover existing pension liabilities.
Performance shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to the achievement of corporate performance conditions.
Personal lending See Retail loans.
PRA standard rules The method prescribed by the PRA for calculating market risk capital requirements in the absence of VaR model approval.
Prime A US description for mortgages granted to the most creditworthy category of borrowers.
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange, often involving the investment of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in its delisting.
Probability of default PD The probability that an obligor will default within one year.
Profit participation contribution PIS A federal tax which is imposed monthly on gross revenue earned by legal entities in Brazil.
It is a mandatory employer contribution to an employee savings initiative.
Prudential Regulation Authority The Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK is responsible for prudential regulation and supervision of banks, PRA building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment firms.
R Refi rate The refi or refinancing rate is set by the European Central Bank ECB and is the price banks pay to borrow from ECB.
Regulatory capital The capital which HSBC holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies.
Regulatory matters Investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Renegotiated loans Loans for which the contractual payment terms have been changed because of significant concerns about the borrowers ability to meet the contractual payments when due.
Repo reverse repo A short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling a financial asset or sale and repurchase agreement to a lender.
As part of the agreement the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the party on the other end of the transaction buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo.
Reputational risk The risk that illegal, unethical or inappropriate behaviour by the Group itself, members of staff or clients or representatives of the Group will damage HSBCs reputation, leading, potentially, to a loss of business, fines or penalties.
Restricted Shares Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the individual remaining in employment.
The shares to which the employee becomes entitled may be subject to retention requirement.
Retail loans Money lent to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both secured and unsecured loans such as mortgages and credit card balances.
Return on equity Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders equity.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 475 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Glossary Term Definition Risk appetite The aggregate level and types of risk a firm is willing to assume within its risk capacity to achieve its strategic objectives and business plan.
Risk capacity The maximum level of risk the firm can assume before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital and liquidity needs and its obligations, also from a conduct perspective, to depositors, policyholders, other customers and shareholders.
Risk-weighted assets Calculated by assigning a degree of risk expressed as a percentage risk weight to an exposure value in RWAs accordance with the applicable Standardised or IRB approach rules.
Run-off portfolios Legacy credit in GB&M, the US CML portfolio and other US run-off portfolios, including the treasury services related to the US CML businesses and commercial operations in run-off.
Origination of new business in the run-off portfolios has been discontinued and balances are being managed down through attrition and sale.
S Sale and repurchase agreement See repo above.
Second lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that is issued against the same collateral as a first lien but that is subordinate to it.
In the case of default, repayment for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid.
Securitisation A transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure, or pool of exposures, is tranched and where payments to investors in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the performance of the exposure or pool of exposures.
A traditional securitisation involves the transfer of the exposures being securitised to an SE which issues securities.
In a synthetic securitisation, the tranching is achieved by the use of credit derivatives and the exposures are not removed from the balance sheet of the originator.
Securitisation swap An interest rate or cross currency swap with notional linked to the size of the outstanding asset portfolio in a securitisation.
Securitisation swaps are typically executed by securitisation vehicles to hedge interest rate risk arising from mismatches between the interest rate risk profile of the asset portfolio and that of the securities issued by the vehicle.
Short sale In relation to credit risk management, a short sale is an arrangement in which a bank permits the borrower to sell the property for less than the amount outstanding under a loan agreement.
The proceeds are used to reduce the outstanding loan balance and the borrower is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Single-issuer liquidity facility A liquidity or stand-by line provided to a corporate customer which is different from a similar line provided to a conduit funding vehicle.
Six filters An internal measure designed to improve capital deployment across the Group.
Five of the filters examine the strategic relevance of each business in each country, in terms of connectivity and economic development, and the current returns, in terms of profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity.
The sixth filter requires adherence to global risk standards.
Social security financing contribution A federal tax imposed monthly on gross revenue earned by legal entities in Brazil.
It is a contribution to finance COFINS the social security system.
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.
Special Purpose Entity SPE A corporation, trust or other non-bank entity, established for a narrowly defined purpose, including for carrying on securitisation activities.
The structure of the SPE and its activities are intended to isolate its obligations from those of the originator and the holders of the beneficial interests in the securitisation.
Structured entities An entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who SEs controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment STD Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
Stressed VaR A market risk measure based on potential market movements for a continuous one-year period of stress for a trading portfolio Structured finance notes An instrument whose return is linked to the level of a specified index or the level of a specified asset.
The return on a structured note can be linked to equities, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities or credit.
Structured notes may or may not offer full or partial capital protection in the event of a decline in the underlying index or asset.
Student loan-related assets Securities with collateral relating to student loans.
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or liquidation.
Sub-prime A US description for customers with high credit risk, for example those who have limited credit histories, modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios for real estate secured products or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other credit-related problems.
Sustainability risk The risk that the environmental and social effects of providing financial services outweigh the economic benefits.
Sustainable cost savings Permanent cost reductions at a given level of business activity.
Sustainable cost savings exclude cost avoidance and revenue and loan impairment charge benefits as these do not represent operational expense reductions.
Cost savings resulting from business disposals are not classified as sustainable.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 476 Term Definition Systemic Risk Buffer SRB A capital buffer prescribed in the EU under CRD IV, to address risks in the financial sector as a whole, or one or more sub-sectors, to be deployed as necessary by each EU member state with a view to mitigate structural macro-prudential risk.
In the UK this was transposed in January 2015 and is to be applied to ring-fenced banks and building societies over a certain threshold.
Systems risk The risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Groups daily execution and the systems infrastructure on which they reside, including data centres, networks and distributed computers.
T Tier 1 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising common equity tier 1 and additional tier 1.
Additional tier 1 capital includes eligible non-common equity capital securities and any related share premium.
Under Basel II, Tier 1 capital comprises of core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital.
Other tier 1 capital includes qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities.
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising eligible capital securities and any related share premium.
Under Basel II, Tier 2 capital comprises of qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
Total Loss Absorbing Capacity A proposal by the FSB and not yet finalised for global systemically important banks to have a sufficient amount of TLAC specific types of liabilities which can be used to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution.
These proposals are intended to facilitate an orderly resolution that minimises any impact on financial stability, ensures the continuity of critical functions, and avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
Trading portfolios Positions arising from market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
Trading risk Market risk arising from trading portfolios.
Troubled debt restructuring A US description for restructuring a debt whereby the creditor for economic or legal reasons related to a debtors financial difficulties grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider.
U Unencumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have not been pledged as collateral against an existing liability.
Unfunded exposures An exposure where the notional amount of a contract has not been exchanged.
US government agency and Securities that are guaranteed by US government agencies such as Ginnie Mae, or by US government sponsored US government sponsored enterprises entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
mortgage-related assets V Value-at-risk A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk factors VaR e. g. rates, prices, volatilities over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
W Wholesale loans Money lent to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and corporate entities.
Write-down write-off When a financial asset is written down or written off, a customer balance is partially or fully removed, respectively, from the balance sheet.
Loans and related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Wrong-way risk An adverse correlation between the counterpartys PD and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 477 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
