Shareholder information Interim dividends Shareholder profile 2014 AGM Stock symbols 461 Shareholder information Investor relations 461 Fourth interim dividend for 2014 458 Where more information about HSBC is available 461 Interim dividends for 2015 458 Simplified structure chart 462 Shareholder profile 458 Taxation of shares and dividends 463 2014 Annual General Meeting 459 Abbreviations 466 Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 459 Glossary and Index 470 Shareholder enquiries and communications 460 Fourth interim dividend for 2014 The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 20 March 2015.
The timetable for the dividend is: Announcement 23 February 2015 ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 4 March 2015 Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 5 March 2015 1 Record date London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Bermuda 6 March 2015 Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and or Strategic Report 2014, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend documentation 20 March 2015 Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends 16 April 2015 Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 20 April 2015 Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST 30 April 2015 1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2015 The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares.
Under this policy it is intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend.
It is envisaged that the first interim dividend in respect of 2015 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share.
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Boards determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
2 Percentage of Issued Share Capital voted.
3 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For and Against the resolution.
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 5 May 2015 and 2 November 2015.
The Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2015 are expected to be issued on 3 August 2015.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 459 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Shareholder enquiries Stock symbols Investor relations Information on HSBC Shareholder enquiries and communications Enquiries Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below.
The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register: Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor Investors Relations Team The Pavilions Services Limited HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited th Bridgwater Road Rooms 1712-1716, 17 Floor 6 Front Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hopewell Centre Hamilton HM 11 United Kingdom 183 Queens Road East Bermuda Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0137 Hong Kong Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 Email via website: Telephone: 852 2862 8555 Email: hbbm.
co. uk contactus Email: hsbc.
hk Investor Centre: Investor Centre: Investor Centre: www.
com bm Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: The Bank of New York Mellon Depositary Receipts PO Box 43006 Providence, RI 02940-3006 USA Telephone US : 1 877 283 5786 Telephone International : 1 201 680 6825 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com shareowner Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: HSBC France 103, avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Email: .
fr If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf.
Therefore any changes or queries relating to your personal details and holding including any administration thereof must continue to be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian.
HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: For those in Europe, the Middle East For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: and Africa: Global Communications Communications Asia Global Publishing Services HSBC Holdings plc The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC North America 8 Canada Square Corporation Limited SC1 Level, 452 Fifth Avenue London E14 5HQ 1 Queens Road Central New York, NY 10018 United Kingdom Hong Kong USA HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 460 Electronic communications Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on HSBCs website.
To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBCs website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.
If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email.
If you received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBCs website and would like to receive a printed copy or, if you would like to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email quoting your shareholder reference number to the appropriate Registrars at the address given above.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 is available upon request after 20 March 2015 from the Registrars: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Computershare Investor Services PLC Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor The Pavilions Hopewell Centre Bridgwater Road 183 Queens Road East Bristol BS99 6ZZ Hong Kong United Kingdom Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
Stock symbols HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.
BH New York Stock Exchange ADS HSBC Investor relations Enquiries relating to HSBCs strategy or operations may be directed to: Senior Manager Investor Relations SVP Investor Relations Head of Investor Relations, Asia HSBC Holdings plc HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 8 Canada Square 26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard, Suite 100 Corporation Limited London E14 5HQ Mettawa, Illinois 60045 1 Queens Road Central United Kingdom USA Hong Kong Telephone: 44 0 20 7991 3643 1 224 880 8008 852 2822 4908 Email: investorrelations@hsbc.
hk Where more information about HSBC is available This Annual Report and Accounts 2014, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBCs website: www.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N. E. Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.
Investors should call the Commission at 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance.
Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-byCountry Reporting Regulations 2013, effective 1 January 2014.
The legislation will require HSBC Holdings to publish additional information, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, by 1 July 2015.
This information will be available at the time on HSBCs website: www.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 461 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information Organisation chart Taxation of shares and dividends HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 462 Simplified Structure Chart of HSBC Holdings plc HSBC Holdings plc HSBC Latin HSBC Finance HSBC Overseas HSBC Bank plc America Holdings Netherlands Holdings UK Ltd UK Limited 99.99% HSBC Private HSBC North HSBC Bank HSBC Germany Banking Holdings America Holdings Canada Holdings GmbH Suisse S. A. Inc. HSBC France 80.65% HSBC 99.99% 99.99% HSBC Holdings Investments HSBC Bank A. S. HSBC Trinkaus & HSBC Mxico BV North America Burkhardt AG HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Institucin Inc. HSBC Bank S. A.
- Banco fide Banca Argentina S. A. Mltiplo Mltiple, Grupo HSBC Asset Financiero HSBC Finance UK Ltd 94.53% HSBC Asia HSBC Bank Egypt Holdings UK Ltd S. A. E. HSBC Middle HSBC Asia HSBC Securities HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance East Holdings BV Holdings BV USA Inc. N. A.
Corporation The Hongkong and HSBC Bank Shanghai Banking Middle East Ltd Corporation Limited 62.14% HSBC Bank Hang Seng HSBC Life HSBC Bank HSBC Bank HSBC Bank HSBC Bank China Company Bank Limited International Ltd Malaysia Berhad Australia Ltd Taiwan Limited Vietnam Limited Limited This simplified Group structure of principal subsidiaries is at 31 December 2014.
Not all intermediate holding companies are shown.
Unless shown otherwise, all subsidiaries are wholly owned.
income chargeable to tax, and, the acquisition price of Taxation of shares and the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for UK capital gains dividends tax purposes, was the cash dividend foregone.
Taxation UK residents Taxation of capital gains The following is a summary, under current law, of certain The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising UK tax considerations that are likely to be material to the on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly shares.
The summary does not purport to be a depending on whether, for example, the shares were comprehensive description of all the tax considerations purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange that may be relevant to a holder of shares.
In particular, for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking the summary deals principally with shareholders who are Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only in exchange for shares in other companies.
with holders who hold the shares as investments and For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost who are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account not address the tax treatment of certain classes of of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Any holders such as dealers in securities.
Holders and capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers may also be adjusted to take account of indexation regarding the tax consequences of an investment allowance.
If in doubt, shareholders are recommended in shares in light of their particular circumstances, to consult their professional advisers.
including the effect of any national, state or local laws.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Taxation of dividends Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by generally will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with an 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such associated tax credit which is available for set-off by stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee.
certain shareholders against any liability they may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the associated tax credit is An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, equivalent to 10% of the combined cash dividend and tax normally will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve credit, i. e. one-ninth of the cash dividend.
tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped for taxation purposes and liable to UK income tax at the before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on becomes payable, under the current practice of UK HM the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual Revenue and Customs HMRC it will not be necessary shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such higher rate or additional rate are taxed on the combined tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve tax is generally amount of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend payable by the transferee.
upper rate currently 32.5% and the dividend additional rate currently 37.5%, respectively.
The tax credit is Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UKs available for set-off against the dividend upper rate paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty and the dividend additional rate liability.
Individual UK reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration.
In resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit CREST transactions, the tax is calculated and payment repayment.
Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, Although non-UK resident shareholders are generally not unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration.
entitled to any repayment of the tax credit in respect of Following the case HSBC pursued before the European any UK dividend received, some such shareholders may Court of Justice Case C-569 07 HSBC Holdings plc and be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM agreement between their country of residence and the Revenue & Customs and a subsequent case in relation to UK.
However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge is, in practice, repayable.
to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2013 prohibited.
fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third interim dividends for 2014 was set out in the Secretarys Taxation US residents letters to shareholders of 25 March, 5 June, 3 September The following is a summary, under current law, and 5 November 2014.
In no case was the difference of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax between the cash dividend foregone and the market considerations that are likely to be material to the value of the scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the ownership and disposition of shares or American market value.
Accordingly, the amount of the dividend HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 463 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Shareholder information continued Taxation Depositary Shares ADSs by a holder that is a resident Taxation of capital gains of the US for US federal income tax purposes a US Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other holder and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject purposes.
to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale or other The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive disposition the holder carries on a trade, profession description of all of the tax considerations that may be or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or have been used, held or acquired for the purposes of ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, permanent establishment.
Such gains will be included in such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual including a straddle comprised of a share or ADS and US holder generally will be subject to US tax at one or more other positions, and persons that own, preferential rates.
directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock Inheritance tax of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of determined to be the US for the purposes of the United which are subject to change.
States-United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance circumstances, including the effect of any national, state tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of or local laws.
shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report or ADSs i are comprised in a settlement unless, at the and Accounts is for informational purposes only: it was time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, US and was not a national of the UK, ii is part of the for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties.
business property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an Taxation of dividends individual used for the performance of independent Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC personal services.
In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty Holdings.
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability cash dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where income on the date that such holder or the ADS the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in and to US federal estate or gift tax.
UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt.
A US holder that Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must If shares are transferred to a clearance service or include in ordinary income the fair market value of such American Depositary Receipt ADR issuer which will shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis include a transfer of shares to the Depositary under the of those shares will equal such fair market value.
current HMRC practice UK stamp duty and or stamp duty Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration foreign corporation being considered a qualified foreign for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of corporation which includes not being classified for 1.5%.
US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such investment company, certain dividends qualified a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in dividends received by an individual US holder generally connection with the same transfer.
will be subject to US taxation at preferential rates.
Based No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or on the companys audited financial statements and agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings and any separate instrument of transfer or written does not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign agreement to transfer remain at all times outside the UK, investment company.
Accordingly, dividends paid on the and provided further that any such transfer or written shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK.
stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 464 US backup withholding tax and information withholding.
Holders that are not US persons generally reporting are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from applicable certification procedures to establish that they the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or are not US persons in order to avoid the application through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, of such information reporting requirements or backup are subject to information reporting and may be subject withholding tax to payments received within the US to a US backup withholding tax unless, in general, the or through certain financial intermediaries.
US holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 465 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
