Notes on the Financial Statements 1 Basis of preparation 1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies a Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued or adopted by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.
At 31 December 2014, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2014 affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2014 There were no new standards applied during the year ended 31 December 2014.
On 1 January 2014, HSBC applied Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32, which clarified the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and addressed inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The amendments were applied retrospectively and did not have a material effect on HSBCs financial statements.
During 2014, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Future accounting developments In addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, discussed below, the IASB is working on projects on insurance and lease accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements in the future.
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU but effective after 31 December 2014 During 2014, the EU endorsed the amendments issued by IASB through the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 Cycle and the 2011-2013 Cycle, and a narrow-scope amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
HSBC has not early applied any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2014 and it expects they will have an immaterial effect, when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based approach for revenue recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as they are satisfied.
The standard should be applied retrospectively, with certain practical expedients available.
HSBC is currently assessing the impact of this standard but it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, and includes requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Classification and measurement The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on the entitys business model for their management and their contractual cash flow characteristics and result in financial assets being measured at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI or fair value through profit or loss.
In many instances, the classification and measurement outcomes will be similar to IAS 39, although differences will arise, for HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 345 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation example, since IFRS 9 does not apply embedded derivative accounting to financial assets, and equity securities will be measured at fair value through profit or loss or, in limited circumstances, at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value compared with IAS 39.
The classification of financial liabilities is essentially unchanged, except that, for certain liabilities measured at fair value, gains or losses relating to changes in the entitys own credit risk are to be included in other comprehensive income.
Impairment The impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, and lease receivables and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts.
At initial recognition, allowance or provision in the case of commitments and guarantees is required for expected credit losses ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months 12 month ECL.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, allowance or provision is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument lifetime ECL.
The assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed for each reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument, rather than by considering an increase in ECL.
The assessment of credit risk, and the estimation of ECL, are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted, and should incorporate all available information which is relevant to the assessment, including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events and economic conditions at the reporting date.
In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money.
As a result, the recognition and measurement of impairment is intended to be more forward-looking than under IAS 39 and the resulting impairment charge will tend to be more volatile.
It will also tend to result in an increase in the total level of impairment allowances, since all financial assets will be assessed for at least 12-month ECL and the population of financial assets to which lifetime ECL applies is likely to be larger than the population for which there is objective evidence of impairment in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedge accounting The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger link with risk management strategy and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and risks.
The standard does not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies, which are being considered in a separate project.
To remove the risk of any conflict between existing macro hedge accounting practice and the new general hedge accounting requirements, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
Transition The classification and measurement and impairment requirements are applied retrospectively by adjusting the opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods.
Hedge accounting is generally applied prospectively from that date.
The mandatory application date for the standard as a whole is 1 January 2018, but it is possible to apply the revised presentation for certain liabilities measured at fair value from an earlier date.
HSBC intends to revise the presentation of fair value gains and losses relating to the entitys own credit risk on certain liabilities as soon as permitted by EU law.
If this presentation was applied at 31 December 2014, the effect would be to increase profit before tax with the opposite effect on other comprehensive income based on the change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk for the year, with no effect on net assets.
Further information on change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk, including HSBCs credit risk, is disclosed in Note 25.
HSBC is assessing the impact that the rest of IFRS 9 will have on the financial statements through a Group-wide project which has been in place since 2012, but due to the complexity of the classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting requirements and their inter-relationships, it is not possible at this stage to quantify the potential effect.
d Changes to the presentation of the Financial Statements and Notes on the Financial Statements In order to make the financial statements and notes thereon easier to understand, HSBC has changed the location and the wording used to describe certain accounting policies within the notes, removed certain immaterial disclosures and changed the order of certain sections.
In applying materiality to financial statement disclosures, we consider both the amount and nature of each item.
The main changes to the presentation of the financial statements and notes thereon in 2014 are as follows: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 346 Consolidated balance sheet and Consolidated statement of changes in equity: rationalised certain line items disclosure to focus on material information.
Credit risk: changed the order and presentation of certain disclosures to remove duplication and focus on material information.
In 2013, the financial statements included Note 2 Summary of significant accounting policies.
In 2014, the accounting policies have been placed, whenever possible, within the relevant Notes on the Financial Statements, and the changes in wording are intended to more clearly set out the accounting policies.
These changes in the wording do not represent changes in accounting policies.
Critical accounting policies: replaced Critical accounting policies with Critical accounting estimates and judgements and placed them within the relevant notes alongside the significant accounting policy to which they relate.
The new approach meets the reporting requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Note 6 Employee compensation and benefits: rationalised to remove duplication and focus on material information.
Note 38 Lease commitments: rationalised to focus on material information.
In 2013, the financial statements included Note 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis and Note 23 Property, Plant and equipment.
In 2014, separate notes for these areas have been removed and relevant information incorporated into other notes.
In 2013, the financial statements included Note 20 Transfers of financial assets and Note 36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets.
In 2014, the relevant information for these areas has been included in a single Note 19 Assets charged as security for liabilities, assets transferred and collateral accepted as security for assets.
From 1 January 2014, HSBC has chosen to present non-trading reverse repos and repos separately on the face of the balance sheet.
These items are classified for accounting purposes as loans and receivables or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Previously, they were presented on an aggregate basis together with other loans or deposits measured at amortised cost under the following headings in the consolidated balance sheet: Loans and advances to banks, Loans and advances to customers, Deposits by banks and Customer accounts.
The separate presentation aligns disclosure of reverse repos and repos with market practice and provides more meaningful information in relation to loans and advances.
Further explanation is provided in Note 17.
From 1 January 2014, the geographical region Asia replaced the geographical regions previously reported as Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific.
This better aligns with internal information used to manage the business.
Comparative data have been re-presented.
Further explanation is provided in Note 11. e Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 111 to 237.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have been included in the audited sections of Report of the Directors: Capital on pages 238 to 262.
Disclosures relating to HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited section of Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 111 to 237.
In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the Groups performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules.
In particular, HSBC provides additional disclosures having regard to the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force EDTF report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks issued in October 2012.
The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information about banks risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting.
In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the BBA Code.
The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 347 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
f Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions.
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items listed below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which managements estimates are based, resulting in materially different conclusions from those reached by management for the purposes of the 2014 Financial Statements.
Managements selection of HSBCs accounting policies which contain critical estimates and judgements is listed below: it reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved: Impairment of loans and advances: Note 1 k : Deferred tax assets: Note 8: Valuation of financial instruments: Note 13: Impairment of interests in associates: Note 20: Goodwill impairment: Note 21: Provisions: Note 29. g Going concern The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
h Consolidation and related disclosures HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Control is initially assessed based on consideration of all facts and circumstances, and is subsequently reassessed when there are significant changes to the initial setup.
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC would consolidate when it holds, directly or indirectly, the necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body.
In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power over the relevant activities or holding the power as agent or principal.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of noncontrolling interest and the fair value of HSBCs previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
For acquisitions achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates, based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for any material transactions or events occurred between the date of financial statements available and 31 December.
i Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 348 currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
Any foreign exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised either in other comprehensive income or in the income statement depending where the gain or loss on the underlying non-monetary item is recognised.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and the retranslation of the results for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements and in other comprehensive income in consolidated financial statements.
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment.
j Loans and advances to banks and customers These include loans and advances originated by HSBC, not classified as held for trading or designated at fair value.
They are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower and are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans are sold, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
They are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment allowance.
Loans and advances are reclassified to Assets held for sale when they meet the criteria presented in Note 23: however, their measurement continues to be in accordance with this policy.
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time.
Where the loan arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative.
On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading.
Where HSBC intends to hold the loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss.
On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
For certain transactions, such as leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced may not be the best evidence of the fair value of the loan.
For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced, the difference is charged to the income statement in other operating income.
The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired.
k Impairment of loans and advances and available-for-sale financial assets Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment of loans and advances Loan impairment allowances represent managements best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management is required to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates when calculating loan impairment allowances on both individually and collectively assessed loans and advances.
The largest concentration of collectively assessed loan impairment allowances are in North America, where they were US$2.4bn, representing 38% 2013: US$3.8bn: 47% of the Groups total collectively assessed loan impairment allowances and 19% 2013:25% of the Groups total impairment allowances.
Of the North American collective impairment allowances approximately 71% 2013: 79% related to the US CML portfolio.
Collective impairment allowances are subject to estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to identify losses on an individual loan basis due to the large number of individually insignificant loans in the portfolio.
The estimation methods include the use of statistical analyses of historical information, supplemented with significant management judgement, to assess whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than historical experience.
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss experience.
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment patterns.
Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations.
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
For individually assessed loans, judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance.
In determining whether there is objective evidence that a HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 349 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, including the consideration of whether payments are contractually past-due and the consideration of other factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay.
A higher level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset.
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determine the size of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customers business model and the capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations.
HSBC might provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities or avoid default or repossession.
Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in determining their effects on loan impairment allowances.
Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit risk characteristics of forbearance cases, including those which return to performing status following renegotiation.
Where collectively assessed loan portfolios include significant levels of loan forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect their specific credit risk characteristics, and estimates are made of the incurred losses inherent within each forbearance portfolio segment.
Forbearance activities take place in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finances CML portfolio.
The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas.
Many of the factors have a high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive, though they are particularly sensitive to general economic and credit conditions in North America.
For example, a 10% increase in impairment allowances on collectively assessed loans and advances in North America would have increased loan impairment allowances by US$0.2bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$0.4bn.
Impairment of loans and advances Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred.
Impairment allowances that are calculated on individual loans or on groups of loans assessed collectively, are recorded as charges to the income statement and are recorded against the carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet.
Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised.
Individually assessed loans and advances The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing impairment include the size of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, and the importance of the individual loan relationship, and how this is managed.
Loans that meet these criteria will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective assessment methodology see below.
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger amounts and are managed on an individual basis.
For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired.
The criteria used to make this assessment include: known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower: contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days: the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation: a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is not insignificant: and there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to repay is considered doubtful.
For loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following factors: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations: the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: the extent of other creditors commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident: the realisable value of security or other credit mitigants and likelihood of successful repossession: the likely costs of obtaining and selling collateral as part of foreclosure: the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local currency: and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 350 when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the market value at the time the impairment assessment is performed.
The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, though adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which includes expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loans original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant present value with the loans current carrying amount.
The impairment allowances on individually significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require.
Collectively assessed loans and advances Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
Retail lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment collectively as the portfolios are generally large homogeneous loan pools.
Incurred but not yet identified impairment Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment.
These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors.
This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated.
When information becomes available which identifies losses on individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually.
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, loan grade or product : the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan: and managements judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by management for each identified portfolio based on economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market.
As it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis, the estimated period may vary over time as these factors change.
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not considered individually significant.
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded individually when individual loans are removed from the group and written off.
The methods that are used to calculate collective allowances are: When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date but which HSBC is not able to identify individually.
Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days: statistical analysis is then used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable.
Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their credit characteristics as described above.
In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the periods of time between a loss event occurring and its discovery, for example through a missed payment, known as the emergence period and the period of time between discovery and write-off known as the outcome period.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted cash flow model.
Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is typically between six and twelve months.
The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data observations, which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends.
When the most recent trends arising from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in the statistical models, they HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 351 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 1 Basis of preparation are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the statistical models to reflect these changes as at the balance sheet date.
Write-off of loans and advances Loans and the related impairment allowance accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Reversals of impairment If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance account accordingly.
The write-back is recognised in the income statement.
Assets acquired in exchange for loans Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as Assets held for sale and reported in Other assets if those assets are classified as held for sale.
The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale.
Impairments and reversal of previous impairments are recognised in the income statement in Other operating income, together with any realised gains or losses on disposal.
Renegotiated loans Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments required have been received.
They are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment assessment, to reflect their risk profile.
Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired.
The carrying amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition.
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial instrument.
Any new agreements arising due to derecognition events will continue to be disclosed as renegotiated loans and are assessed for impairment as above.
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment.
If such evidence exists as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact which can be reliably measured on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset an impairment loss is recognised.
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between its acquisition cost net of any principal repayments and amortisation and its current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions for debt instruments and within Gains less losses from financial investments for equities.
The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below: Available-for-sale debt securities.
In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows.
Financial difficulties of the issuer, as well as other factors such as information about the issuers liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment.
In addition, the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of market price declines is relevant when assessing objective evidence of impairment of available-for-sale ABSs.
The primary indicators of potential impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security, while changes in credit ratings are of secondary importance.
Objective evidence of impairment may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 352 A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost of the asset at initial recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the type of asset: for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset.
Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement: for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement.
Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the availablefor-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred.
l Funding fair value adjustment In line with evolving market practice HSBC revised its estimation methodology for valuing the uncollateralised derivative portfolios by introducing a funding fair value adjustment FFVA.
The FFVA adjustment reflects the estimated present value of the future market funding cost or benefit associated with funding uncollateralised derivative exposure at rates other than the Overnight Index Swap OIS rate, which is the benchmark rate used for valuing collateralised derivatives.
The impact of FFVA adoption in 2014 was a US$263m reduction in net trading income, reflecting the incorporation of a funding spread over Libor.
Further details have been provided in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.
m Operating income Interest income and expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities are recognised in Interest income and Interest expense in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
Non-interest income and expense Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers.
Fee income is accounted for as follows: income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed for example, fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities : income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided for example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees : and income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate for example, certain loan commitment fees and recorded in Interest income.
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
This is the ex-dividend date for listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity securities.
The accounting policies for net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value and for net insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 2 and Note 3.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 353 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 2 Net income expense from fin instr at FV 3 Net insurance premium income 4 Net insurance claims 2 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value Accounting policy Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, including liabilities under investment contracts: all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss: and interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss: and derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in Interest expense.
Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Net income expense arising on: financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 2,300 3,170 2,980 other financial assets designated at fair value 131 118 83 derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets designated at fair value 19 26 35 2,412 3,262 3,098 liabilities to customers under investment contracts 435 1,237 996 HSBCs long-term debt issued and related derivatives 508 1,228 4,327 changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 417 1,246 5,215 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBCs issued debt securities 333 3,743 431 other changes in fair value 242 3,761 457 other financial liabilities designated at fair value 23 39 23 derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities designated at fair value 11 10 22 61 2,494 5,324 Year ended 31 December 2,473 768 2,226 HSBC Holdings Net income expense arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Net income expense arising on: changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 695 2,260 339 derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 126 1,558 456 other changes in fair value 27 1,213 474 Year ended 31 December 438 1,040 2,278 3 Net insurance premium income Accounting policy Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which they relate.
Net insurance premium income Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 2 insurance insurance with DPF Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross insurance premium income 7,705 2,195 2,470 12,370 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 441 8 449 Year ended 31 December 2014 7,264 2,187 2,470 11,921 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 354 Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 2 insurance insurance with DPF Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross insurance premium income 7,002 3,012 2,384 12,398 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 450 8 458 Year ended 31 December 2013 6,552 3,004 2,384 11,940 Gross insurance premium income 7,578 3,325 2,699 13,602 Reinsurers share of gross insurance premium income 550 8 558 Year ended 31 December 2012 7,028 3,317 2,699 13,044 1 Includes non-life insurance.
4 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders Accounting policy Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment.
Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities.
Death claims are recognised when notified.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders Investment Non-linked Linked life contracts 1 2 insurance insurance with DPF Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 7,770 2,765 3,188 13,723 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,575 1,499 2,215 7,289 movement in liabilities 4,195 1,266 973 6,434 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 411 33 378 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 176 88 264 movement in liabilities 235 121 114 Year ended 31 December 2014 7,359 2,798 3,188 13,345 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 6,892 3,379 3,677 13,948 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 3,014 1,976 2,308 7,298 movement in liabilities 3,878 1,403 1,369 6,650 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 367 111 256 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 164 426 590 movement in liabilities 203 537 334 Year ended 31 December 2013 6,525 3,490 3,677 13,692 Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 6,900 3,984 3,645 14,529 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 1,905 1,810 2,525 6,240 movement in liabilities 4,995 2,174 1,120 8,289 Reinsurers share of claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 537 223 314 claims, benefits and surrenders paid 217 681 898 movement in liabilities 320 904 584 Year ended 31 December 2012 6,363 4,207 3,645 14,215 1 Includes non-life insurance.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 355 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 5 Operating profit 6 Employee compensation and benefits 5 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses, and loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions: 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Income Interest recognised on impaired financial assets 1,137 1,261 1,261 Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities 9,438 9,799 10,042 Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers 3,253 3,176 2,897 Income from listed investments 6,726 5,432 5,850 Income from unlisted investments 5,874 6,860 7,677 Expense Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities held for trading or designated at fair value 15,322 14,610 17,625 Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these types of assets and liabilities 1,427 1,396 1,501 Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers 185 171 170 Payments under lease and sublease agreements 1,548 1,425 1,166 minimum lease payments 1,199 1,098 1,149 contingent rents and sublease payments 349 327 17 UK bank levy 1,066 916 472 Gains losses Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities 373 175 420 Gains losses recognised on assets held for sale 220 729 485 Gains on disposal of HSBC Bank Panama S. A.
1,107 Losses gains arising from dilution of interest in Industrial Bank and other associates and joint ventures 32 1,051 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 3,851 5,849 8,311 net impairment charge on loans and advances 4,055 6,048 8,160 release impairment of available-for-sale debt securities 319 211 99 impairment in respect of other credit risk provisions 115 12 52 6 Employee compensation and benefits 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Wages and salaries 17,477 16,879 17,780 Social security costs 1,666 1,594 1,633 Post-employment benefits 1,223 723 1,078 Year ended 31 December 20,366 19,196 20,491 Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 2014 2013 2012 Europe 74,024 75,334 77,204 Asia 116,492 114,216 116,779 Middle East and North Africa 8,616 9,181 8,645 North America 21,983 22,568 27,396 Latin America 43,652 47,496 54,162 Year ended 31 December 264,767 268,795 284,186 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 356 Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to incentive awards in employee compensation and benefits 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m 1 Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year 3,660 3,920 3,689 Less: deferred bonuses awarded for the current year, expected to be recognised in future periods 359 436 355 Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,301 3,484 3,334 Current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 425 427 671 Other 114 164 28 Total incentive awards for the current year included in employee compensation and benefits 3,612 3,747 3,977 1 This represents the amount of the Group variable pay pool that has been approved and granted.
The total amount of Group variable pay pool approved by the Group Remuneration Committee is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 310.
Income statement charge: deferred bonuses Current year Prior year bonus pool bonus pools Total US$m US$m US$m 2014 Charge recognised in 2014 245 425 670 deferred share awards 147 373 520 deferred cash awards 98 52 150 Charge expected to be recognised in 2015 or later 359 381 740 deferred share awards 250 334 584 deferred cash awards 109 47 156 2013 Charge recognised in 2013 269 427 696 deferred share awards 188 354 542 deferred cash awards 81 73 154 Charge expected to be recognised in 2014 or later 436 306 742 deferred share awards 356 259 615 deferred cash awards 80 47 127 2012 Charge recognised in 2012 277 671 948 deferred share awards 224 613 837 deferred cash awards 53 58 111 Charge expected to be recognised in 2013 or later 355 376 731 deferred share awards 315 335 650 deferred cash awards 40 41 81 Share-based payments Accounting policy HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for services provided by employees.
The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to Retained earnings.
For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised as the employees render service.
Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models.
Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance conditions: any other features of the arrangement are non-vesting conditions.
Market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant.
Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date.
They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction.
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period.
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries for which the subsidiaries are re-charged, the difference between the cost of the share-based payment arrangement and the fair value of the equity instruments expected to be issued to satisfy those arrangements is recognised as an adjustment to Investment in subsidiaries over the vesting period.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 357 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 6 Employee compensation and benefits Wages and salaries include the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which US$732m are equity settled 2013: US$630m: 2012: US$988m, as follows: 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Restricted share awards 738 599 912 Savings-related and other share award option plans 36 63 96 Year ended 31 December 774 662 1,008 HSBC share awards Award Policy Purpose Restricted share An assessment of performance over the relevant period ending To drive and reward performance consistent awards on 31 December is used to determine the amount of the award to with strategy and align to shareholder including Annual be granted.
incentive awards Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in Deferral provides an incentive for a longerdelivered in employment over the vesting period and are not subject to term commitment and the ability to apply shares and GPSP performance conditions after the grant date.
Deferred Annual incentive awards generally vest over a period of three years and GPSP awards vest after five years.
Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement restriction post-vesting.
GPSP awards are retained until cessation of employment.
Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to malus provision prior to vesting.
Movement on HSBC share awards 2014 2013 Number Number 000s 000s Restricted share awards outstanding at 1 January 116,932 165,589 Additions during the year 82,871 59,261 Released in the year 78,224 99,820 Forfeited in the year 5,096 8,098 Restricted share awards outstanding at 31 December 116,483 116,932 Weighted average fair value of awards granted US$ 10.18 10.95 HSBC share option plans Main plans Policy Purpose Savings-related Two plans: the UK plan and the International Plan.
The last grant To align the interests of all employees with share option of options under the International Plan was in 2012. the creation of shareholder value.
plans From 2014, eligible employees save up to 500 per month or for International options granted prior to 2013, the equivalent of 250 in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or Euros, with the option to use the savings to acquire shares.
Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversaries of the commencement of a three-year or five-year contract, respectively, or for International options granted prior to 2013, three months following the first anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings contract.
The exercise price is set at a 20% 2013: 20% discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation except for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan prior to 2013 where a 15% discount was applied.
HSBC Holdings Plan ceased in May 2005.
Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and Group share 2005 during which certain HSBC employees Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the date of option plan were awarded share options.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 358 Calculation of fair values The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant.
Movement on HSBC share option plans HSBC Holdings Group share option Savings-related share option plans plan 1 1 Number WAEP Number WAEP 000s 000s Outstanding at 1 January 2014 93,760 4.04 55,026 7.23 2 Granted during the year 28,689 5.19 3 Exercised during the year 50,393 3.48 1 7.22 Expired during the year 5,690 4.81 48,651 7.22 Outstanding at 31 December 2014 66,366 4.89 6,374 7.29 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 2.66 0.30 Outstanding at 1 January 2013 112,752 4.04 87,173 6.94 2 Granted during the year 8,6795.47 3 Exercised during the year 17,968 4.56 17,595 6.21 Expired during the year 9,703 4.47 14,552 4.21 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 93,760 4.04 55,026 7.23 Weighted average remaining contractual life years 1.80 0.45 1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$1.90 2013: US$2.98.
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$9.91 2013: US$10.86 and US$9.49 2013: US$10.93 for the savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively.
Post-employment benefit plans Accounting policy HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world.
These plans include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare.
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBCs obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the schemes actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability and is presented in operating expenses.
The past service cost, which is charged immediately to the income statement, is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior periods resulting from a plan amendment the introduction or withdrawal of, or changes to, a defined benefit plan or curtailment a significant reduction by the entity in the number of employees covered by a plan.
A settlement is a transaction that eliminates all further legal and constructive obligations for part or all of the benefits provided under a defined benefit plan, other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, employees that is set out in the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions.
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 359 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 6 Employee compensation and benefits Income statement charge 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Defined benefit pension plans 469 54 427 Defined contribution pension plans 687 597 599 Pension plans 1,156 651 1,026 Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans 67 72 52 Year ended 31 December 1,223 723 1,078 Net assets liabilities recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans Present value of Effect of Fair value of defined benefit limit on plan plan assets obligations surpluses Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Defined benefit pension plans 44,824 42,062 17 2,745 Defined benefit healthcare plans 179 1,104 925 At 31 December 2014 45,003 43,166 17 1,820 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 3,208 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 5,028 Defined benefit pension plans 40,622 40,467 30 125 Defined benefit healthcare plans 190 1,106 916 At 31 December 2013 40,812 41,573 30 791 Total employee benefit liabilities within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2,931 Total employee benefit assets within Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2,140 Cumulative actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 4,445 3,844 3,453 HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme 2,764 1,524 208 Other plans 274 796 440 Healthcare plans 88 143 154 Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses 17 16 5 Total actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 2,419 601 391 At 31 December 2,026 4,445 3,844 HSBC pension plans 2014 2013 2012 % % % Percentage of HSBC employees: enrolled in defined contribution plans 66 64 62 enrolled in defined benefit plans 22 23 23 covered by HSBC pension plans 88 87 85 The Group operates a number of pension plans throughout the world.
Some are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme the principal plan.
The Pension Risk section on page 200 and the Appendix to Risk on page 236 contain details about the characteristics and risks and amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows and policies and practices associated with the principal plan.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 360 Defined benefit pension plans Net asset liability under defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined Net defined benefit Fair value of plan assets benefit obligations Effect of the asset ceiling asset liability HSBC HSBC HSBC HSBC Bank UK Bank UK Bank UK Bank UK Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Scheme plans Scheme plans Scheme plans Scheme plans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 31,665 8,957 29,629 10,838 30 2,036 1,911 Current service cost 228 257 228 257 Past service cost and gains losses from settlements 5 26 11 26 6 Service cost 5 254 246 254 251 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 1,386 370 1,291 425 4 95 59 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 4,864 845 2,100 1,034 17 2,764 172 return on plan assets excluding interest income 4,864 845 4,864 845 actuarial losses 2,317 987 2,317 987 other changes 217 47 17 217 30 Exchange differences 2,112 316 1,838 357 274 41 Contributions by HSBC 397 278 397 278 normal 265 239 265 239 special 132 39 132 39 Contributions by employees 38 17 38 17 Benefits paid 954 543 954 598 55 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 40 23 40 23 At 31 December 2014 35,244 9,580 30,480 11,582 17 4,764 2,019 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 9,782 5,605 deferreds 8,799 2,498 pensioners 11,899 3,479 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 361 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 6 Employee compensation and benefits Net asset liability under defined benefit pension plans continued Present value of defined Net defined benefit Fair value of plan assets benefit obligations Effect of the asset ceiling asset liability HSBC HSBC HSBC HSBC Bank UK Bank UK Bank UK Bank UK Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Scheme plans Scheme plans Scheme plans Scheme plans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 29,092 9,015 26,475 11,581 19 2,617 2,585 Current service cost 259 249 259 249 Past service cost and gains losses 1 from settlements 3 438 41 438 44 Service cost 3 179 290 179 293 Net interest income cost on the net defined benefit asset liability 1,260 156 1,127 229 133 73 Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income 817 21 2,341 775 16 1,524 780 return on plan assets excluding interest income 817 21 817 21 actuarial gains losses 2,453 829 2,453 829 other changes 112 54 16 112 70 Exchange differences 766 59 740 23 5 26 31 Contributions by HSBC 605 336 605 336 normal 399 274 399 274 special 206 62 206 62 Contributions by employees 38 17 38 17 Benefits paid 876 513 876 452 61 Administrative costs and taxes paid by plan 37 13 37 13 Disposals 16 16 At 31 December 2013 31,665 8,957 29,629 10,838 30 2,036 1,911 Present value of defined benefit obligation relating to: actives 8,896 5,465 deferreds 8,358 2,144 pensioners 12,375 3,229 1 HSBC announced to employees in the UK that the future service accrual for active members of the Defined Benefit Section DBS of the principal plan would cease with effect from 30 June 2015 and that all active members of the DBS will become member of the Defined Contribution Section from 1 July 2015.
This resulted in a reduction in the defined benefit obligation of the Scheme and a corresponding gain of US$430m in 2013, recorded in Past service cost and gains losses on settlements in the table above.
HSBC expects to make US$530m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2015.
Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as follows: Benefits expected to be paid from plans 20152016201720182019 2020-2024 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m 1 HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme 970 999 1,029 1,060 1,091 5,968 1 Other plans 566 576 595 605 643 3,366 1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.8 years for the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme under the disclosure assumptions adopted 2013: 19.5 years and 14.2 years for all other plans combined 2013: 13.7 years.
Post-employment defined benefit plans principal actuarial financial assumptions HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans local actuaries, on the basis of current average yields of high quality AA-rated or equivalent debt instruments, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan Rate of Discount Inflation increase for Rate of Interest rate rate pensions pay increase credit rate % % % % % UK At 31 December 2014 3.70 3.20 3.00 3.70 n a At 31 December 2013 4.45 3.60 3.30 4.10 n a At 31 December 2012 4.50 3.10 2.90 3.60 n a Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 for the principal plan Mortality Life expectancy at age 65 for Life expectancy at age 65 for table a male member currently: a female member currently: Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 UK 1 At 31 December 2014 SAPS S1 23.6 25.2 25.0 26.9 1 At 31 December 2013 SAPS S1 23.6 25.2 24.9 26.8 1 Self-administered Pension Scheme SAPS with Continuous Mortality Investigation 2014 improvements 2013: 2013 improvements and a 1.25% long-term allowance improvement.
Light table with 1.01 rating for male pensioners and 1.02 rating for female pensioners.
Actuarial assumption sensitivities The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme 2014 2013 US$m US$m Discount rate Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 1,420 1,352 Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease 1,523 1,450 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 75 83 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 73 79 Rate of inflation Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 1,026 994 Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease 1,184 1,137 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 44 53 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 48 68 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 1,188 1,301 Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease 1,127 1,225 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 50 66 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 45 64 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 363 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 7 Auditors remuneration 8 Tax HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme 2014 2013 US$m US$m Rate of pay increase Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 237 212 Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease 232 205 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 12 15 Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 11 15 Mortality Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 768 712 HSBC Holdings Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings employees in 2014 amounted to US$681m 2013: US$542m.
The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2014 was 2,070 2013: 1,525.
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme.
HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the Trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due.
Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 were: 2014 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fees 4,567 4,027 5,435 Salaries and other emoluments 17,812 9,488 10,316 Annual incentives 4,426 7,357 13,983 Year ended 31 December 26,805 20,872 29,734 Vesting of long-term incentive awards 5,733 In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,269,160 2013: US$1,198,744.
The provision at 31 December 2014 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$19,419,524 2013: US$19,729,103.
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were nil 2013: nil.
The salary and other emoluments figure includes fixed pay allowances.
Discretionary annual incentives for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration Committee.
Details of Directors remuneration, share options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 300 to 327.
7 Auditors remuneration 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m 1 Audit fees payable to KPMG 40.6 43.4 47.2 Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities 1.2 1.1 1.4 Year ended 31 December 41.8 44.5 48.6 1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings statutory audit and audit of HSBCs subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation and includes fees payable for the current year.
Excluded from the 2014 audit fees payable to KPMG is a net release of accruals of US$2.5 million relating to prior years and fees related to the transition of the audit to PwC of US$1.3 million.
The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Groups principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates together KPMG : HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 364 Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m 1 Fees for HSBC Holdings statutory audit 13.4 12.9 13.2 relating to current year 13.4 12.6 12.8 relating to prior year 0.3 0.4 Fees for other services provided to HSBC 62.5 67.5 67.3 2 Audit of HSBCs subsidiaries 27.2 30.5 34.0 3 Audit-related assurance services 22.6 27.4 23.6 Taxation-related services: taxation compliance services 1.5 1.3 2.1 taxation advisory services 0.8 1.3 1.3 Other assurance services 0.7 0.5 1.1 4 Other non-audit services 9.7 6.5 5.2 Year ended 31 December 75.9 80.4 80.5 1 Fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion.
Excluded from the 2014 fees is US$0.3m related to prior year and fees related to the transition of the audit to PwC of US$1.3m.
2 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBCs subsidiaries.
Excluded from the 2014 fees is a net release of accruals of US$2.8m relating to prior years.
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews.
4 Including valuation and actuarial services, translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, review of financial models, advice on IT security and business continuity, corporate finance transactions and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures.
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, services related to litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
Fees payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to KPMG 2014 2013 2012 US$000 US$000 US$000 Audit of HSBCs associated pension schemes 322 379 256 Audit related assurance services 5 5 Year ended 31 December 327 384 256 No fees were payable by HSBCs associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: audit related assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$3.6m 2013: US$5.3m: 2012: US$3.3m by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in appointing KPMG.
These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group.
8 Tax Accounting policy Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 365 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 8 Tax Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense.
Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Deferred tax assets The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
In absence of a history of taxable profits, the most significant judgements relate to expected future profitability and to the applicability of tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations.
Our US operations have a history of tax losses, but profitability is expected to improve.
Tax planning strategies support the recognition of deferred tax assets in the US, with retention of capital in the US operations being a significant factor in recognising the deferred tax assets.
Given the recent occurrence of tax losses, the recognition of deferred tax assets in Brazil takes into consideration both the reliance placed on management's projection of income and on the use of strategies, such as corporate reorganisations and other initiatives, to improve the profitability of our Brazilian banking operations from a tax perspective.
Tax expense 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Current tax UK corporation tax 69 8 250 for this year 54 103 60 adjustments in respect of prior years 15 111 190 1 Overseas tax 3,881 3,949 5,560 for this year 4,423 3,947 5,421 adjustments in respect of prior years 542 2 139 3,950 3,941 5,810 Deferred tax 25 824 495 origination and reversal of temporary differences 477 739 269 effect of changes in tax rates 83 93 66 adjustments in respect of prior years 419 8 292 Year ended 31 December 3,975 4,765 5,315 1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,135m 2013: US$1,133m: 2012: US$1,049m.
The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% 2013: 16.5%: 2012: 16.5%.
Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
Tax reconciliation The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate as follows: 2014 2013 2012 US$m % US$m % US$m % Profit before tax 18,680 22,565 20,649 Tax expense Tax at 21.5% 2013: 23.25%: 2012: 24.5% 4,016 21.5 5,246 23.25 5,057 24.5 Effect of differently taxed overseas profits 33 0.2 177 0.8 57 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities 108 0.6 117 0.5 37 0.2 Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised previously not recognised 154 0.8 332 1.5 374 1.8 Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures 547 2.9 543 2.4 872 4.3 Tax effect of disposal of Ping An 111 0.5 204 1.0 Tax effect of reclassification of Industrial Bank 317 1.4 Non-taxable income and gains 668 3.5 871 3.9 542 2.6 Permanent disallowables 969 5.1 647 2.9 1,092 5.3 Change in tax rates 22 0.1 93 0.4 78 0.4 Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 434 2.3 551 2.4 581 2.8 Other items 22 0.1 32 0.1 229 1.1 Year ended 31 December 3,975 21.3 4,765 21.1 5,315 25.7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 366 The effective tax rate for the year was 21.3% compared with 21.1% for 2013.
The effective tax rate for the year reflected the recurring benefits from tax exempt income from government bonds and equities held by a number of Group entities and recognition of the Groups share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures within our pre-tax income, together with a current tax credit for prior periods offset in part by non-tax-deductible settlements and provision in connection with foreign exchange investigations.
The effective tax rate in 2013 was lower because of benefits from nontaxable gains offset in part by a write-down of deferred tax assets.
The main rate of corporation tax in the UK reduced from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and will be further reduced to 20% on 1 April 2015.
The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 20% was enacted through the 2013 Finance Act on 17 July 2013.
It is not expected that the future rate reduction will have a significant effect on the Group.
The Groups legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the Group operates.
Where the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain, the Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters.
Deferred taxation The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle on a net basis.
The net deferred tax assets totalled US$5.6bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$6.5bn.
The main items to note are: US The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in the US was US$4.1bn 2013: US$4.4bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits of US$0.9bn 2013: US$0.7bn, deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.8bn 2013: US$1.2bn and other temporary differences of US$2.4bn 2013: US$2.5bn.
Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, or if earlier, when the impaired loan is sold.
The tax deduction is often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes.
As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance.
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC Holdings commitment to continue to retain sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets.
Management projections of profits from the US operations currently indicate that tax losses and tax credits will be fully recovered by 2017.
The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances and other deductible temporary differences is projected to reduce over the next four years.
As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBCs US operations, managements analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support.
The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to increase levels of taxable income.
As financial performance in our US operations improves it is expected that projected future profits from US operations will be relied on in the evaluation of the recognition of the deferred tax asset in future periods as the sustainability of the improving financial performance is demonstrated.
Brazil The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in Brazil was US$1.3bn 2013: US$1.0bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses of US$0.3bn 2013: US$0.1bn, deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.7bn 2013: US$0.7bn and other temporary differences of US$0.3bn 2013: US$0.2bn.
Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes.
Management projections of profits from the Brazilian banking operations currently indicate that the tax losses and other temporary differences will be substantially recovered within the next five to eight years.
Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within two to three years of the accounting recognition.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 367 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 8 Tax Mexico The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBCs operations in Mexico was US$0.5bn 2013: US$0.5bn.
The deferred tax assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions for impaired loans.
Managements analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets relies on the primary strategy of selling certain loan portfolios, the losses on which are deductible for tax in Mexico when sold.
Any such deductions for tax would lead to the reversal of the carried forward loan impairment provision recognised for deferred tax purposes.
The deferred tax balances are carried forward to future years without expiry.
In September 2013, the Mexican Government proposed a number of tax reforms that were approved by the Chamber of Senate in October 2013 and published in the Official Gazette in December 2013.
The tax reforms included a new basis of tax deduction for loan impairment charges that will allow banks to recognise tax deductions as and when loans are written off the balance sheet.
The reforms also brought in transitional rules to allow banks to continue to claim any unclaimed deductions as at 31 December 2013.
On 4 July 2014, the Mexican Government issued rule I.
3.22.5 of the Miscellaneous Tax Resolution that clarified the treatment of the transitional rules, but had no impact on the deferred tax assets held in our operations in Mexico.
On the evidence available, including historical and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates and profitability, it is expected that the business will realise these assets over the next five years.
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Groups deferred tax assets in Mexico.
UK The net deferred tax liability relating to HSBCs operations in the UK was US$0.4bn 2013: asset of US$0.4bn.
The deferred tax liabilities included in this total related primarily to retirement benefits.
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Groups deferred tax assets in the UK.
Unrecognised deferred tax The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$22.6bn 2013: US$22.0bn.
These amounts included unused state losses arising in our US operations of US$14.1bn 2013: US$17.3bn.
Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$4.2bn 2013: US$5.0bn had no expiry date, US$0.9bn 2013: US$1.0bn was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining will expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined that no additional tax will arise.
No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2014 and 2013 temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax of US$132m 2013: US$20m has, however, been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract withholding tax.
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview Notes on the Financial Statements continued 9 Dividends 10 Earnings per share 11 Segmental analysis HSBC Holdings Movement of deferred tax assets Accelerated AvailableShareOther shortcapital for-sale Other based term timing allowances investments Investments payments differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 2 23 19 11 4 13 Income statement 3 2 1 6 Other comprehensive income 36 36 At 31 December 2014 2 59 22 13 5 17 At 1 January 2013 2 31 31 12 14 Income statement 12 1 4 9 Other comprehensive income 8 8 At 31 December 2013 2 23 19 11 4 13 The amount of unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$3,760m 2013: US$3,405m of which US$10m 2013: US$9m relate to capital losses.
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability and management projections of future income, it is expected that there will be not sufficient taxable income generated by the business to recover the tax losses carried forward by HSBC Holdings.
The losses have no expiry date.
9 Dividends Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 2014 2013 2012 Per Settled Per Settled Per Settled share Total in scrip share Total in scrip share Total in scrip US$ US$m US$m US$ US$m US$m US$ US$m US$m Dividends paid on ordinary shares In respect of previous year: fourth interim dividend 0.19 3,582 1,827 0.18 3,339 540 0.14 2,535 259 In respect of current year: first interim dividend 0.10 1,906 284 0.10 1,861 167 0.09 1,633 748 second interim dividend 0.10 1,914 372 0.10 1,864 952 0.09 1,646 783 third interim dividend 0.10 1,918 226 0.10 1,873 864 0.09 1,655 639 Total 0.49 9,320 2,709 0.48 8,937 2,523 0.41 7,469 2,429 Total dividends on preference shares classified as equity paid quarterly 62.00 90 62.00 90 62.00 90 Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 2014 2013 2012 First Per security Total Per security Total Per security Total call date US$ US$m US$ US$m US$ US$m 1 Perpetual subordinated capital securities US$2,200m Apr 2013 2.032 179 2.032 179 2.032 179 US$3,800m Dec 2015 2.000 304 2.000 304 2.000 304 Total 483 483 483 1 Coupons are paid quarterly on the perpetual subordinated capital securities.
The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$3,844m.
The fourth interim dividend will be payable on 30 April 2015 to holders of record on 6 March 2015 on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong or the Bermuda Overseas Branch registers.
No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2014.
On 15 January 2015, HSBC paid a coupon on the perpetual subordinated capital securities of US$0.508 per security, a distribution of US$45m.
No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 in respect of this coupon payment.
In September 2014, HSBC issued three contingent convertible securities as set out on page 438 which are classified as equity under IFRSs.
Coupons are paid semi-annually on the contingent convertible securities and none fell due in 2014.
On 20 January 2015, HSBC paid a coupon on one of the contingent convertible securities of US$28.125 per security, a distribution of US$28m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 370 The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2014 were US$48,883m.
10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,688 16,204 14,027 Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity 90 90 90 Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity 483 483 483 Year ended 31 December 13,115 15,631 13,454 Basic and diluted earnings per share 2014 2013 2012 Number Per Number Per Number Per Profit of shares share Profit of shares share Profit of shares share US$m millions US$ US$m millions US$ US$m millions US$ 1 Basic 13,115 18,960 0.69 15,631 18,530 0.84 13,454 18,125 0.74 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 96 124 146 1 Diluted 13,115 19,056 0.69 15,631 18,654 0.84 13,454 18,271 0.74 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding basic or assuming dilution diluted.
The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excluded 6m employee share options that were antidilutive 2013: 60m: 2012: 103m.
11 Segmental analysis Accounting policy HSBC has a matrix management structure.
HSBCs chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board GMB which operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board.
The GMB regularly reviews operating activity on a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business.
HSBC considers that geographical operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic environments in which it operates.
This reflects the importance of geographical factors on business strategy and performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional management in executing strategy.
As a result, HSBCs operating segments are considered to be geographical regions.
Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or providing funding.
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted at arms length.
Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.
The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost of carrying on business and being headquartered in the UK.
Products and services HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its five geographical regions.
The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management RBWM offers a broad range of products and services to meet the personal banking and wealth management needs of individual customers.
Typically, customer offerings include personal banking products current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services and wealth management services insurance and investment products, global asset management services and financial planning services.
Commercial Banking CMB offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates.
These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions payments and cash management and commercial cards, commercial insurance and investments.
CMB also offers its customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, for example Global Banking & Markets GB&M, HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 371 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 11 Segmental analysis which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private investors worldwide.
The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including financing, advisory and transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, equities, money markets and securities services, and principal investment activities.
Global Private Banking GPB provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with complex and international needs within the Groups priority markets.
Change in operating segments HSBCs operating segments are Europe, Asia, Middle East and North Africa MENA, North America and Latin America.
Previously, HSBCs operating segments were reported as Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, North America and Latin America.
Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific are no longer regarded as separate reportable operating segments, having considered the geographical financial information presented to the chief operating decision maker.
From 1 January 2014, they have been replaced by a new operating segment, Asia, which better aligns with internal management information used for evaluation when making business decisions and resource allocations.
The chief operating decision-maker continues to be the GMB and the basis for measuring segmental results has not changed.
Comparative financial information has been re-presented accordingly.
There has been no change in the underlying business operations comprising the Asia segment.
Reported net operating income in Asia for the year to 31 December 2014 was US$23,677m 31 December 2013: US$24,432m: 31 December 2012: US$25,332m.
This was US$713m lower 31 December 2013: US$749m lower: 31 December 2012: US$674m lower than would be calculated by adding net operating income reported for Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific on an individual basis.
The reduction in net operating income is offset by an equal decrease in operating expenses.
The difference relates to shared service recharges and business activity undertaken between the two regions which form revenue or expense on an individual basis, but are eliminated as intra-segment activity when reported as Asia.
There is no difference between profit before tax reported for Asia and that which would be calculated by adding the profit before tax of Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific on an individual basis.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 373 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 11 Segmental analysis Other information about the profit loss for the year North Latin IntraEurope Asia MENA America America HSBC items Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2014 1 Net operating income 21,571 23,677 2,548 8,152 8,272 2,972 61,248 external 20,450 22,071 2,524 7,937 8,266 61,248 inter-segment 1,121 1,606 24 215 6 2,972 Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 950 606 40 182 473 2,251 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 1,066 800 37 437 2,466 4,806 Impairment of financial investments 256 286 14 10 54 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 614 4 3 99 508 Restructuring costs 117 7 2 28 57 211 2013 1 Net operating income 20,967 24,432 2,503 8,803 10,568 2,628 64,645 external 20,108 22,853 2,497 8,569 10,618 64,645 inter-segment 859 1,579 6 234 50 2,628 Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 957 610 48 303 412 2,330 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 2,165 665 45 1,321 2,949 7,145 Impairment of financial investments 61 4 15 6 36 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 936 1 3 288 1,228 Restructuring costs 211 79 3 100 42 435 2012 1 Net operating income 17,608 25,332 2,430 14,693 10,951 2,684 68,330 external 16,405 23,893 2,455 14,566 11,011 68,330 inter-segment 1,203 1,439 25 127 60 2,684 Profit for the year includes the following significant non-cash items: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 966 649 55 363 499 2,532 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 2,329 691 361 3,587 2,489 9,457 Impairment of financial investments 420 62 1 32 4 519 Changes in fair value of long-term debt and related derivatives 3,091 4 13 1,219 4,327 Restructuring costs 292 128 27 219 94 760 1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
Excludes assets acquired as part of business combinations and goodwill.
The Other category also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units.
2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 375 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 11 Segmental analysis 12 Trading assets Information by country 2014 2013 2012 External net NonExternal net NonExternal net Nonoperating current operating current operating current 1,2 3 1,2 3 1,2 3 income assets income assets income assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m UK 14,392 8,671 13,347 17,481 9,149 18,391 Hong Kong 12,656 12,376 12,031 12,170 11,307 11,657 USA 5,736 5,685 6,121 4,189 11,779 6,718 France 2,538 10,301 3,111 11,565 2,881 11,074 Brazil 4,817 1,403 5,364 1,715 6,395 2,017 Other countries 21,109 28,273 24,671 27,879 26,819 30,078 61 248 Year ended at 31 December 61,248 66,709 64,645 74,999 68,330 79,935 1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds.
3 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures and certain other assets expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the reporting period.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 376 12 Trading assets Accounting policy Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
They are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties, and are normally derecognised when sold.
They are initially measured at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement.
Subsequent changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
For trading assets, the interest is shown in Net trading income.
Trading assets 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trading assets: not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 247,586 201,492 which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 56,607 101,700 At 31 December 304,193 303,192 Treasury and other eligible bills 16,170 21,584 Debt securities 141,532 141,644 Equity securities 75,249 63,891 Trading securities at fair value 232,951 227,119 1 Loans and advances to banks 27,581 27,885 1 Loans and advances to customers 43,661 48,188 At 31 December 304,193 303,192 1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, settlement accounts, stock borrowing and other amounts.
1 Trading securities valued at fair value 2014 2013 US$m US$m 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 25,880 23,450 UK Government 9,280 11,591 Hong Kong Government 6,946 5,909 Other government 78,774 86,714 3 Asset-backed securities 3,494 2,736 Corporate debt and other securities 33,328 32,828 Equity securities 75,249 63,891 At 31 December 232,951 227,119 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$22,399m 2013: US$22,989m, of which US$2,949m 2013: US$3,973m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
Trading securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other Debt Equity eligible bills securities securities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value 1 Listed 1,311 98,028 74,542 173,881 2 Unlisted 14,859 43,504 707 59,070 At 31 December 2014 16,170 141,532 75,249 232,951 Fair value 1 Listed 19485,82162,724 148,739 2 Unlisted 21,390 55,823 1,167 78,380 At 31 December 2013 21,584 141,644 63,891 227,119 1 Included within listed investments are US$5,956m 2013: US$3,836m of securities listed in Hong Kong.
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a liquid market.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 377 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Accounting policy All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is generally its transaction price that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received.
However, sometimes the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss at inception day 1 gain or loss, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value.
When significant unobservable parameters are used, the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and is recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures, is closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis.
However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, HSBC measures the fair value of the group of financial instruments on a net basis but presents the underlying financial assets and liabilities separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria as described in Note 32.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Valuation of financial instruments The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded principal market.
The fair values of financial instruments that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued.
Where a financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market, the fair value of the total holding of the financial instrument is calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price.
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
The bid offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared with the price at which they would be willing to sell.
Valuation techniques may incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their valuations, including: the likelihood and expected timing of future cash flows on the instrument.
Judgement may be required to assess the counterpartys ability to service the instrument in accordance with its contractual terms.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to changes in market rates: selecting an appropriate discount rate for the instrument.
Judgement is required to assess what a market participant would regard as the appropriate spread of the rate for an instrument over the appropriate risk-free rate: judgement to determine what model to use to calculate fair value in areas where the choice of valuation model is particularly subjective, for example, when valuing complex derivative products.
A range of valuation techniques is employed, dependent on the instrument type and available market data.
Most valuation techniques are based upon discounted cash flow analyses, in which expected future cash flows are calculated and discounted to present value using a discounting curve.
Prior to considering credit risk, the expected future cash flows may be known, as would be the case for the fixed leg of an interest rate swap, or may be uncertain and require projection, as would be the case for the floating leg of an interest rate swap.
Projection utilises market forward curves, if available.
In option models, the probability of different potential future outcomes must be considered.
In addition, the value of some products is dependent on more than one market factor, and in these cases it will typically be necessary to consider how movements in one market factor may affect the other market factors.
The model inputs necessary to perform such calculations include interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, correlations, prepayment and default rates.
For interest rate derivatives with collateralised counterparties and in significant currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that reflects the overnight interest rate OIS.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data.
However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instruments inception profit or greater than 5% of the instruments valuation is driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to determine the price at which an arms length transaction would be likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value consensus pricing data may, for example, be used.
Control framework Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk-taker.
For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised.
In inactive markets HSBC will source alternative market information to validate the financial instruments fair value, with greater weight given to information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices: the degree of similarity between financial instruments: the degree of consistency between different sources: the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 378 the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date: and the manner in which the data was sourced.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework may include, as applicable, development or validation by independent support functions of i the logic within valuation models: ii the inputs to those models: iii any adjustments required outside the valuation models: and iv where possible, model outputs.
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process.
This process disaggregates changes in fair value into three high level categories: i portfolio changes, such as new transactions or maturing transactions, ii market movements, such as changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices, and iii other, such as changes in fair value adjustments see further below.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M.
GB&Ms fair value governance structure is illustrated below as an example: Group Finance Director Finance Valuation Committees Valuation Committee Review Group Responsible for fair value: Overseen by Consist of valuation experts and report Chaired by Global Head of Establishing accounting from several independent all valuations policies for fair value Product Control, support functions considered Provides Global Markets Establishing procedures product control, market risk to have results governing valuation material management, quantitative Consists of Heads of subjectivity Ensuring compliance risk and valuation group Global Markets, Finance with all relevant and finance, in addition and Risk functions accounting standards to senior management Financial liabilities measured at fair value In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific instrument concerned, where available.
An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with interest rate derivatives.
When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBCs liabilities.
The change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve.
The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 379 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Fair value hierarchy Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy: Level 1 valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
The following table sets out the financial instruments by fair value hierarchy.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation Valuation techniques Quoted Using With significant market observable unobservable price inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Recurring fair value measurements at 31 December 2014 Assets Trading assets 180,446 117,279 6,468 304,193 Financial assets designated at fair value 23,697 4,614 726 29,037 Derivatives 4,366 337,718 2,924 345,008 Financial investments: available for sale 241,464 131,264 4,988 377,716 Liabilities Trading liabilities 62,385 122,048 6,139 190,572 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 3,792 72,361 76,153 Derivatives 4,649 334,113 1,907 340,669 Recurring fair value measurements at 31 December 2013 Assets Trading assets 182,721 115,124 5,347 303,192 Financial assets designated at fair value 30,173 7,649 608 38,430 Derivatives 2,539 277,224 2,502 282,265 Financial investments: available for sale 262,836 130,760 7,245 400,841 Liabilities Trading liabilities 88,935 110,576 7,514 207,025 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 10,482 78,602 89,084 Derivatives 4,508 267,441 2,335 274,284 The increase in Level 2 derivative balances reflects the overall increase in derivative balances and is discussed in Note 16.
There were no other significant movements during 2014.
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value Available Held for through Held for through for sale trading profit or loss Derivatives trading profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 2,702 18,149 22,964 Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period.
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 mainly reflect the reclassification of settlement balances and cash collateral following reassessment of the application of levelling criteria to these balances.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 380 Fair value adjustments Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered by a market participant which are not incorporated within the valuation model.
HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either risk-related or model-related.
The majority of these adjustments relate to GB&M.
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the income statement.
For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required.
Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss.
Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments 2014 2013 US$m US$m Type of adjustment Risk-related 1,958 1,565 bid-offer 539 561 uncertainty 357 343 credit valuation adjustment 871 1,274 debit valuation adjustment 270 616 funding fair value adjustment 460 other 1 3 Model-related 57 202 model limitation 52 199 other 5 3 Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Note 16 114 167 At 31 December 2,129 1,934 The largest change in recurring fair value adjustments was a decline of US$403m in respect of the credit valuation adjustment, as a result of both reduced derivative counterparty exposures and general narrowing of credit default swap CDS spreads.
Narrowing HSBC credit default swap spreads similarly contributed to a reduction in the debit valuation adjustment DVA of US$346m.
Funding fair value adjustment FFVA reflects the potential future cost or benefit of funding the uncollateralised derivative portfolio at rates other than overnight OIS rates.
FFVA is measured from an OIS base, and the total FFVA balance of US$460m also reflects the difference between OIS and Libor which had been previously reflected in the fair value of the uncollateralised derivative portfolio.
Risk-related adjustments Bid-offer IFRS 13 requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value.
Valuation models will typically generate mid-market values.
The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and or the choice of model itself may be more subjective.
In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model.
Credit valuation adjustment The CVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions see below.
Debit valuation adjustment The DVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions see below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 381 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Funding fair value adjustment The funding fair value adjustment is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio.
This includes the uncollateralised component of collateralised derivatives in addition to derivatives that are fully uncollateralised.
The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation methodology, where available.
The expected future funding exposure is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty.
The funding fair value adjustment and debit valuation adjustment are calculated independently.
Model-related adjustments Model limitation Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture all material market characteristics.
Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions.
In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
As model development progresses, model limitations are addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed.
Inception profit Day 1 P&L reserves Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable inputs.
The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 378.
An analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 395. Credit valuation adjustment debit valuation adjustment methodology HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure.
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default PD of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBCs expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default.
Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty.
This incorporates a range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty over the life of the portfolio.
The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
A standard loss given default LGD assumption of 60% is generally adopted for developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures.
Alternative LGD assumptions may be adopted when both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this.
For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts alternative methodologies.
These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool or, where the mapping approach is not appropriate, using a simplified methodology which generally follows the same principles as the simulation methodology.
The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than is used in the simulation methodology.
The methodologies do not, in general, account for wrong-way risk.
Wrong-way risk arises when the underlying value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default by the counterparty.
When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within the valuation.
With the exception of certain central clearing parties, we include all third-party counterparties in the CVA and DVA calculations and do not net these adjustments across Group entities.
We review and refine the CVA and DVA methodologies on an ongoing basis.
Valuation of uncollateralised derivatives Historically, HSBC has valued uncollateralised derivatives by discounting expected future cash flows at a benchmark interest rate, typically Libor or its equivalent.
In line with evolving industry practice, HSBC changed this approach in the second half of 2014.
HSBC now views the OIS curve as the base discounting curve for all derivatives, both collateralised and uncollateralised, and has adopted an FFVA to reflect the funding of uncollateralised derivative exposure at rates other than OIS.
The impact of adopting the funding fair value adjustment was a reduction in trading revenues of US$263m.
This is an area in which a full industry consensus has not yet emerged.
HSBC will continue to monitor industry evolution and refine the calculation methodology as necessary.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 382 Fair value valuation bases Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Assets Liabilities Available Held for At fair DerivHeld for At fair Deriv- 1 1 for sale trading value atives Total trading value atives Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Private equity including strategic investments 3,120 164 432 3,716 47 47 Asset-backed securities 1,462 616 2,078 Loans held for securitisation 39 39 Structured notes 2 2 6,092 6,092 Derivatives with monolines 239 239 1 1 Other derivatives 2,685 2,685 1,906 1,906 Other portfolios 406 5,647 294 6,347 26 At 31 December 2014 4,988 6,468 726 2,924 15,106 6,139 1,907 8,046 Private equity including strategic investments 3,729 103 420 4,252 Asset-backed securities 1,677 643 2,320 Loans held for securitisation 83 83 Structured notes 14 14 7,514 7,514 Derivatives with monolines 320 320 Other derivatives 2,182 2,182 2,335 2,335 Other portfolios 1,839 4,504 188 6,531 At 31 December 2013 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 15,702 7,514 2,335 9,849 1 Designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses.
Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain other derivatives and predominantly all Level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy.
HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments HSBCs private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets.
In the absence of an active market, an investments fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investees financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed ownership.
Asset-backed securities While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required.
For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate.
The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and or market data consensus providers when available.
In the absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using alternative valuation techniques.
These techniques include discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.
Structured notes The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives.
Level 3 structured notes principally comprise equity-linked notes which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios.
The notes are classified as Level 3 due to the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 383 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Derivatives OTC i. e. non-exchange traded derivatives are valued using valuation models.
Valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry.
For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing.
Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices.
Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions.
Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives.
Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions.
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 financial instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: Movement in Level 3 financial instruments Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value Available Held for through Held for through for sale trading profit or loss Derivatives trading profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 7,514 2,335 Total gains losses recognised in profit or loss 174 194 56 959 25 5 trading income excluding net interest income 194 959 25 5 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 56 gains less losses from financial investments 198 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 24 Total gains losses recognised in other 1 comprehensive income 126 178 16 126 123 54 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses 208 cash flow hedges: fair value gains losses 9 34 exchange differences 82 178 16 117 123 20 Purchases 1,505 705 273 31 New issuances 2,067 Sales 1,237 481 149 Settlements 1,255 49 78 27 1,655 69 Transfers out 3,027 112 544 1,918 527 Transfers in 1,457 1,042 32 106 310 119 At 31 December 2014 4,988 6,468 726 2,924 6,139 1,907 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 384 Assets Liabilities Designated Designated at fair value at fair value Available Held for through Held for through for sale trading profit or loss Derivatives trading profit or loss Derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2014 24 1 46 946 122 134 trading income excluding net interest income 1 946 122 134 net income expense from other financial instruments designated at fair value 46 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 24 At 1 January 2013 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 3,005 Total gains losses recognised in profit or loss 52 343 36 205 747 393 trading income expense excluding net interest income 343 205 747 393 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 36 gains less losses from financial investments 66 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 14 Total gains losses recognised in 1 other comprehensive income 487 20 7 9 57 available-for-sale investments: fair value gains 568 cash flow hedges: fair value losses 11 exchange differences 81 20 49 57 Purchases 1,838 1,293 56 482 New issuances 3,161 Sales 766 1,821 4 14 Settlements 756 473 27 311 1,150 1,004 Transfers out 3,121 385 68 171 1,051 160 Transfers in 1,104 1,992 202 137 318 44 At 31 December 2013 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 7,514 2,335 Unrealised gains losses recognised in profit or loss relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 December 2013 166 362 41 297 401 72 trading income excluding net interest income 362 297 401 72 net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 41 loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 166 1 Included in Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains losses and Exchange differences in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Purchases and sales of Level 3 available-for-sale assets predominantly reflect ABS activity, particularly in the securities investment conduits.
Transfers out of Level 3 available-for-sale securities reflect increased confidence in the pricing of certain emerging markets corporate debt, in addition to improved price discovery of some ABSs.
Transfers into Level 3 largely relate to other ABSs where price discovery has deteriorated.
New issuances of trading liabilities reflect structured note issuances, mainly equity-linked notes.
Transfers out of Level 3 trading liabilities principally relate to equity linked notes as certain model inputs became observable.
Transfers into Level 3 trading assets primarily relate to loans in the process of syndication.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 385 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives The following table shows the sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions Reflected in Reflected in profit or loss other comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities 296 276 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 37 47 Financial investments: available for sale 51 67 270 350 At 31 December 2014 384 390 270 350 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities 350 285 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 32 51 Financial investments: available for sale 434 673 At 31 December 2013 382 336 434 673 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed.
The reduction in the effect of both favourable and unfavourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities predominantly reflects greater certainty in some emerging market foreign exchange volatility, as markets have developed.
The reduction in the effect of both favourable and unfavourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to available-for-sale assets during the period primarily reflects a decrease in the Level 3 balances.
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type Reflected in other Reflected in profit or loss comprehensive income Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes US$m US$m US$m US$m Private equity including strategic investments 77 110 172 255 Asset-backed securities 49 22 60 55 Loans held for securitisation 1 1 Structured notes 14 9 Derivatives with monolines 11 11 Other derivatives 129 155 Other portfolios 103 82 38 40 At 31 December 2014 384 390 270 350 Private equity including strategic investments 31 61 226 436 Asset-backed securities 60 27 113 99 Loans held for securitisation 3 3 Structured notes 16 9 Derivatives with monolines 25 16 Other derivatives 212 164 Other portfolios 35 56 95 138 At 31 December 2013 382 336 434 673 Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval.
Methodologies take account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the available data is not amenable to statistical analysis, the quantification of uncertainty is judgemental, but remains guided by the 95% confidence interval.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments The table below lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments, and provides the range of those inputs as at 31 December 2014.
The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall.
A further description of the categories of key unobservable inputs is given below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 386 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 387 Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations Fair value Key unobservable Assets Liabilities Valuation technique inputs Full range of inputs Core range of inputs US$m US$m Lower Higher Lower Higher Private equity including strategic investments 3,716 47 See notes on page 388 See notes on page 388 n a n a n a n a Asset-backed securities 2,078 1 CLO CDO 1,122 Model Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 1% 6% 1% 6% Market proxy Bid quotes 0 100 54 85 Other ABSs 956 Loans held for securitisation 39 Structured notes 2 6,092 equity-linked notes 4,744 Model Option model Equity volatility 0.2% 65% 18% 38% Model Option model Equity correlation 27% 92% 44% 79% fund-linked notes 562 Model Option model Fund volatility 6% 8% 6% 8% FX-linked notes 2 477 Model Option model FX volatility 2% 70% 4% 16% other 309 Derivatives with monolines 239 1 Model Discounted cash flow Credit spread 3% 5% 4% 4% Other derivatives 2,685 1,906 Interest rate derivatives: securitisation swaps 449 1,023 Model Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate 0% 50% 6% 18% long-dated swaptions 1,044 152 Model Option model IR volatility 2% 59% 16% 36% other 755 151 FX derivatives: FX options 89 95 Model Option model FX volatility 0.1% 70% 4% 14% other 7 7 Equity derivatives: long-dated single stock options 192 256 Model Option model Equity volatility 9% 65% 16% 40% other 34 162 Credit derivatives: other 115 60 Other portfolios 6,347 structured certificates 4,420 Model Discounted cash flow Credit volatility 0.8% 3% 0.8% 3% EM corporate debt 372 Market proxy Credit spread 1% 4% 1% 3% Market proxy Bid quotes 58 131 106 130 2 other 1,555 At 31 December 2014 15,106 8,046 1 Collateralised loan obligation collateralised debt obligation.
2 Includes a range of smaller asset holdings.
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview Notes on the Financial Statements continued 13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value Private equity including strategic investments HSBCs private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets.
Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key unobservable inputs.
Prepayment rates Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date.
Prepayment rates are an important input into modelled values of ABSs.
A modelled price may be used where insufficient observable market prices exist to enable a market price to be determined directly.
Prepayment rates are also an important input into the valuation of derivatives linked to securitisations.
For example, so-called securitisation swaps have a notional value that is linked to the size of the outstanding loan portfolio in a securitisation, which may fall as prepayments occur.
Prepayment rates vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio, and expectations of future market conditions.
For example, current prepayment rates in US residential MBSs would generally be expected to rise as the US economy improves.
Prepayment rates may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macro-economic modelling.
Market proxy Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument for which specific market pricing is not available, but evidence is available in respect of instruments that have some characteristics in common.
In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
For example, in the collateralised loan obligation market it may be possible to establish that A-rated securities exhibit prices in a range, and to isolate key factors that influence position within the range.
Applying this to a specific A-rated security within HSBCs portfolio allows assignment of a price.
The range of prices used as inputs into a market proxy pricing methodology may therefore be wide.
This range is not indicative of the uncertainty associated with the price derived for an individual security.
Volatility Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price.
Volatility tends to increase in stressed market conditions, and decrease in calmer market conditions.
Volatility is an important input in the pricing of options.
In general, the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be.
This reflects both the higher probability of an increased return from the option and the potentially higher costs that HSBC may incur in hedging the risks associated with the option.
If option prices become more expensive, this will increase the value of HSBCs long option positions i. e. the positions in which HSBC has purchased options, while HSBCs short option positions i. e. the positions in which HSBC has sold options will suffer losses.
Volatility varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option.
Volatility also varies over time.
As a result, it is difficult to make general statements regarding volatility levels.
For example, while it is generally the case that foreign exchange volatilities are lower than equity volatilities, there may be examples in particular currency pairs or for particular equities where this is not the case.
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable.
The unobservable volatility is then estimated from observable data.
For example, longer-dated volatilities may be extrapolated from shorter-dated volatilities.
The range of unobservable volatilities quoted in the table on page 387 reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
For example, foreign exchange volatilities for a pegged currency may be very low, whereas for non-managed currencies the foreign exchange volatility may be higher.
As a further example, volatilities for deep-in-the-money or  equity options may be significantly higher than at-the-money options.
The core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively rarely within the HSBC portfolio.
For any single unobservable volatility, the uncertainty in the volatility determination is significantly less than the range quoted above.
Correlation Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices and is expressed as a number between minus one and one.
A positive correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in the same direction, with a correlation of one implying that they always move in the same direction.
A negative correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in opposite directions, with a correlation of minus one implying that the two market prices always move in opposite directions.
Correlation is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market price.
For example, an equity basket option has a payout that is dependent upon the performance of a basket of single stocks, and the correlation between the price movements of those stocks will be an HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 388 input to the valuation.
This is referred to as equity-equity correlation.
There is a wide range of instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations e. g. equity-equity correlation and cross-asset correlations e. g. foreign exchange rate-interest rate correlation used.
In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships.
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market price pair.
For any single unobservable correlation, the uncertainty in the correlation determination is likely to be less than the range quoted above.
Credit spread Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality.
In a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset.
Credit spreads may be implied from market prices.
Credit spreads may not be observable in more illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other.
As described above, market variables may be correlated.
This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events.
For example, improving economic conditions may lead to a risk on market, in which prices of risky assets such as equities and high yield bonds rise, while safe haven assets such as gold and US Treasuries decline.
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables upon the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBCs net risk position in respect of each variable.
For example, increasing high-yield bond prices will benefit long high-yield bond positions, but the value of any credit derivative protection held against these bonds will fall.
HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements: Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2014 2013 US$m US$m Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2 Assets at 31 December Derivatives 2,771 2,789 Available for sale 4,073 1,210 Liabilities at 31 December Designated at fair value 18,679 21,027 Derivatives 1,169 704 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 389 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 14 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 14 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation Fair value Valuation techniques With Quoted Using significant market observable unobservable Carrying price inputs inputs amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets and liabilities not held for sale at 31 December 2014 Assets 1 Loans and advances to banks 112,149 109,087 3,046 112,133 1 Loans and advances to customers 974,660 13,598 959,239 972,837 1 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 161,713 160,600 1,123 161,723 Financial investments: debt securities 37,751 1,418 37,671 74 39,163 Liabilities 1 Deposits by banks 77,426 77,300 98 77,398 1 Customer accounts 1,350,642 1,336,865 13,730 1,350,595 1 Repurchase agreements non-trading 107,432 107,432 107,432 Debt securities in issue 95,947 146 94,325 1,932 96,403 Subordinated liabilities 26,664 28,806 1,248 30,054 Assets and liabilities not held for sale at 31 December 2013 Assets 1 Loans and advances to banks 120,046 111,297 8,727 120,024 1 Loans and advances to customers 992,089 10,762 971,520 982,282 1 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 179,690 178,516 1,166 179,682 Financial investments: debt securities 25,084 1,432 23,960 25 25,417 Liabilities 1 Deposits by banks 86,507 86,440 51 86,491 1 Customer accounts 1,361,297 1,346,343 14,576 1,360,919 1 Repurchase agreements non-trading 164,220 164,173 47 164,220 Debt securities in issue 104,080 166 101,551 2,941 104,658 Subordinated liabilities 28,976 29,704 1,309 31,013 1 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet.
Previously, non-trading reverse repos were included within Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers and non-trading repos were included within Deposits by banks and Customer accounts.
Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly.
Non-trading reverse repos and repos have been presented as separate lines in the balance sheet to align disclosure with market practice and provide more meaningful information in relation to loans and advances.
Fair values are determined according to the hierarchy set out in Note 13.
Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short-term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently.
Accordingly, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
This includes cash and balances at central banks, items in the course of collection transmission from to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Carrying amount and fair value of loans and advances to customers by industry sector Carrying amount at 31 December Not impaired Impaired Total US$m US$m US$m 2014 Loans and advances to customers 954,710 19,950 974,660 personal 377,154 11,800 388,954 corporate and commercial 527,168 8,016 535,184 financial 50,388 134 50,522 2013 Loans and advances to customers 967,181 24,908 992,089 personal 390,018 14,108 404,126 corporate and commercial 527,483 10,439 537,922 financial 49,680 361 50,041 Loans and advances to customers are classified as not impaired or impaired in accordance with the criteria described on page 137.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 390 Fair value at 31 December Not impaired Impaired Total US$m US$m US$m 2014 Loans and advances to customers 954,347 18,490 972,837 personal 375,615 10,721 386,336 corporate and commercial 528,361 7,642 536,003 financial 50,371 127 50,498 2013 Loans and advances to customers 957,695 24,587 982,282 personal 379,353 13,774 393,127 corporate and commercial 529,029 10,340 539,369 financial 49,313 473 49,786 Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment 2014 2013 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers Europe 409,733 413,373 456,110 453,331 Asia 362,955 361,412 336,897 335,132 Middle East and North Africa 29,063 28,658 27,211 26,891 North America 129,787 126,232 127,953 122,823 Latin America 43,122 43,162 43,918 44,105 At 31 December 974,660 972,837 992,089 982,282 Valuation The fair value measurement is HSBCs estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments cash flows over their expected future lives.
Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available.
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as described below: Loans and advances to banks and customers The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available.
In the absence of observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using valuation models that incorporate a range of input assumptions.
These assumptions may include value estimates from third-party brokers which reflect over-the-counter trading activity, forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions which HSBC believes are consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans, and trading inputs from other market participants which include observed primary and secondary trades.
Loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous groups and stratified by loans with similar characteristics to improve the accuracy of estimated valuation outputs.
The stratification of a loan book considers all material factors including vintage, origination period, estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, loan-tovalue ratios, the quality of collateral, default probability, and internal credit risk ratings.
The fair value of a loan reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers in North America is lower than the carrying amount, primarily in the US, reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date.
This is due to the challenging economic conditions during the past number of years, including house price depreciation, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, changes in discount rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of loans and advances.
The relative fair values have increased during 2014 largely due to improved conditions in the housing industry driven by increased property values and, to a lesser extent, lower required market yields and increased investor demand for these types of loans and advances.
The fair value of loans and advances to customers in Europe has improved relative to the carrying amount, primarily in the UK mortgage market where increased competition and central bank policies to stimulate lending have reduced interest rates and increased fair values accordingly.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 391 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 15 Financial assets designated at fair value Financial investments The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices.
The fair values of unlisted financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is approximated by its carrying value.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements non-trading Fair values are estimated by using discounted cash flows, applying current rates.
Fair values approximate carrying amounts as their balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2014 2013 1 1 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets at 31 December Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 43,910 45,091 53,344 55,332 Liabilities at 31 December Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,892 2,906 11,685 11,868 Debt securities in issue 1,009 1,357 2,791 3,124 Subordinated liabilities 17,255 20,501 14,167 16,633 1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs Level 2.
15 Financial assets designated at fair value Accounting policy Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below, and are so designated irrevocably at inception.
HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial instruments, or recognising gains and losses on different bases from related positions.
Under this criterion, the main class of financial assets designated by HSBC are financial assets under unit-linked insurance and unit-linked investment contracts.
Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds.
If no fair value designation was made for the related assets, the assets would be classified as available for sale, with changes in fair value recorded in other comprehensive income.
The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value basis.
Designation at fair value of the financial assets and related liabilities allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line: applies to groups of financial instruments that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to management on that basis.
For example, certain financial assets are held to meet liabilities under non-linked insurance contracts.
HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage and monitor market risk of those assets on net basis, after considering non-linked liabilities.
Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for those insurance operations: relates to financial instruments containing one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised at fair value when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when sold.
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 392 2014 2013 US$m US$m Financial assets designated at fair value: not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 28,357 38,062 which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 680 368 At 31 December 29,037 38,430 Treasury and other eligible bills 56 50 Debt securities 8,891 12,589 Equity securities 20,006 25,711 Securities designated at fair value 28,953 38,350 Loans and advances to banks and customers 84 80 At 31 December 29,037 38,430 1 Securities designated at fair value 2014 2013 US$m US$m Fair value 2 US Treasury and US Government agencies 8 34 UK Government 140 534 Hong Kong Government 40 113 Other government 4,088 4,097 3 Asset-backed securities 18 140 Corporate debt and other securities 4,653 7,721 Equities 20,006 25,711 At 31 December 28,953 38,350 1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$1,388m 2013: US$4,419m, of which US$24m 2013: US$92m are guaranteed by various governments.
2 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
3 Exclude ABSs included under US Treasury and US Government agencies.
Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and other Debt Equity eligible bills securities securities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value 1 Listed 5 2,731 13,837 16,573 Unlisted 51 6,160 6,169 12,380 At 31 December 2014 56 8,891 20,006 28,953 Fair value 1 Listed 2,773 18,235 21,008 Unlisted 50 9,816 7,476 17,342 At 31 December 2013 50 12,589 25,711 38,350 1 Included within listed investments are US$1,361m of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong 2013: US$1,148m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 393 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 16 Derivatives 16 Derivatives Accounting policy Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices.
Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently measured, at fair value.
Fair values of derivatives are obtained either from quoted market prices or by using valuation techniques.
Embedded derivatives are bifurcated from the host contract when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host non-derivative contract, their contractual terms would otherwise meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value.
The bifurcated embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset for accounting purposes if the offsetting criteria presented in Note 32 are met.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in Net trading income.
Gains and losses for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value are reported in Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value, the contractual interest is shown in Interest expense together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: i hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : ii hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction cash flow hedges : or iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedges.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge.
HSBC requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group that contain the hedged risk.
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is discontinued: the cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income: the ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
In hedges of forecasted transactions that result in recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, previous gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
When a hedging relationship is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
A gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income: the residual change in fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation.
Hedge effectiveness testing To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life each hedge must be expected to be highly effective, both prospectively and retrospectively, on an ongoing basis.
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed and the method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy.
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is designated, with the effectiveness range being defined as 80% to 125%.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
The decline in equity derivative assets and liabilities reflects the inclusion of variation margin on cash-settled exchange-traded equity derivatives within gross fair value rather than offsetting.
This change has no impact upon total derivatives assets.
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries Assets Liabilities Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange 680 680 1,066 103 1,169 Interest rate 1,607 484 2,091 At 31 December 2014 2,287 484 2,771 1,066 103 1,169 Foreign exchange 1,774 45 1,819 471 471 Interest rate 955 15 970 233 233 At 31 December 2013 2,729 60 2,789 704 704 Use of derivatives HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBCs own risks.
HSBCs derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives.
These positions are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels.
When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management framework to assess and approve potential credit exposures that it uses for traditional lending.
Trading derivatives Most of HSBCs derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities.
Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks.
Trading activities include market-making and risk management.
Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume.
Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client margin.
Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 395 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 16 Derivatives The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange 5,548,075 5,264,978 15,595 17,280 Interest rate 22,047,278 27,056,367 8,650 10,304 Equities 568,932 589,903 Credit 550,197 678,256 Commodity and other 77,565 77,842 At 31 December 28,792,047 33,667,346 24,245 27,584 The decline in interest rate derivatives notionals during the year reflects participation in industry-wide portfolio compression exercises.
Credit derivatives HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring transactions to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty.
Trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Groups loan portfolios.
The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$550bn 2013: US$678bn consisted of protection bought of US$272bn 2013: US$339bn and protection sold of US$278bn 2013: US$339bn.
The credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described on page 222.
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs The difference between the fair value at initial recognition the transaction price and the value that would have been derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent releases, is as follows: Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 2014 2013 US$m US$m Unamortised balance at 1 January 167 181 Deferral on new transactions 177 206 Recognised in the income statement during the period: 234 221 amortisation 114 105 subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable 13 39 maturity, termination or offsetting derivative 107 77 risk hedged Exchange differences 4 1 1 Unamortised balance at 31 December 114 167 1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Hedge accounting derivatives HSBC uses derivatives principally interest rate swaps for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and liability portfolios and structural positions.
This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date: they do not represent amounts at risk.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 396 Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes by product type HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2014 2013 Cash flow Fair value Cash flow Fair value Fair value Fair value hedge hedge hedge hedge hedge hedge US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange 25,340 25,799 226 1,120 1,120 Interest rate 190,902 90,338 201,197 90,354 5,477 1,977 At 31 December 216,242 90,338 226,996 90,580 6,597 3,097 Fair value hedges HSBCs fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.
Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges 2014 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m HSBC Foreign exchange 5 Interest rate 387 4,012 1,163 2,889 At 31 December 387 4,012 1,168 2,889 HSBC Holdings Foreign exchange 103 45 Interest rate 484 15 At 31 December 484 103 60 Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m HSBC Gains losses : on hedging instruments 2,542 1,997 898 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 2,561 1,932 871 Year ended 31 December 19 65 27 HSBC Holdings Gains losses : on hedging instruments 423 14 on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 422 21 Year ended 31 December 1 7 The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in Net trading income.
Cash flow hedges HSBCs cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future.
The amounts and timing of future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults.
The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions.
Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 2014 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Foreign exchange 1,673 572 2,257 439 Interest rate 1,477 684 1,131 1,208 At 31 December 3,150 1,256 3,388 1,647 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 397 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 17 Non-trading reverse repos and repos 18 Financial investments Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise More than 3 5 years or less 3 months months but less but more than More than or less than 1 year 1 year 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 131,694 122,728 79,529 959 Liabilities 60,814 46,582 36,371 8,169 At 31 December 2014 70,880 76,146 43,158 7,210 Net cash inflows outflows exposure Assets 135,857 124,670 89,405 2,156 Liabilities 60,402 46,990 38,406 10,221 At 31 December 2013 75,455 77,680 50,999 8,065 This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items.
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recognised immediately in Net trading income.
During the year to 31 December 2014 a gain of US$34m 2013: gain of US$22m: 2012: gain of US$35m was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings.
At 31 December 2014, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations were assets of US$55m 2013: US$4m, liabilities of US$1m 2013: US$23m and notional contract values of US$3,525m 2013: US$2,840m.
Ineffectiveness recognised in Net trading income in the year ended 31 December 2014 was nil 2013 and 2012: nil.
17 Non-trading reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements Accounting policy When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price repos, they remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received.
Securities purchased under commitments to resell reverse repos are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.
Non trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet.
This separate presentation was adopted with effect from 1 January 2014 and comparatives are re-presented accordingly.
The extent to which non-trading reverse repos and repos represent amounts with customers and banks is set out below.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Assets Banks 95,403 91,475 Customers 66,310 88,215 At 31 December 161,713 179,690 Liabilities Banks 27,876 42,705 Customers 79,556 121,515 At 31 December 107,432 164,220 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 398 18 Financial investments Accounting policy Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value, are classified as available for sale or held to maturity.
They are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements to purchase those instruments, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or redeemed.
i Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income until they are either sold or become impaired.
When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as Gains less losses from financial investments.
Interest income is recognised over a debt securitys expected life.
Premiums and or discounts arising on the purchase of dated debt securities are included in the interest recognised.
Dividends from equity assets are recognised in the income statement when the right to receive payment is established.
ii Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends and is able to hold to maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any impairment losses.
The accounting policy relating to impairments of available-for-sale securities is presented in Note 1 k. Available-for-sale financial assets are reclassified to held to maturity if there is a change in intention or ability to hold those assets to maturity due to a change in the way those assets are managed.
The fair value on reclassification becomes the new amortised cost and the assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost rather than fair value.
Financial investments 2014 2013 US$m US$m Financial investments: not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 380,419 394,207 which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 35,048 31,718 At 31 December 415,467 425,925 Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Treasury and other eligible bills 81,517 81,517 78,111 78,111 available for sale 81,517 81,517 78,111 78,111 1 Debt securities 323,256 324,668 338,674 339,007 available for sale 285,505 285,505 313,590 313,590 held to maturity 37,751 39,163 25,084 25,417 Equity securities 10,694 10,694 9,140 9,140 available for sale 10,694 10,694 9,140 9,140 At 31 December 415,467 416,879 425,925 426,258 1 During the year US$11,043m of available-for-sale debt securities were reclassified to held-to-maturity debt securities.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 399 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 18 Financial investments 19 Assets charged as security Financial investments at amortised cost and fair value Amortised Fair 1 2 cost value US$m US$m US Treasury 33,931 34,745 3 US Government agencies 18,326 18,516 3 US Government sponsored entities 9,339 9,761 UK Government 28,680 29,758 Hong Kong Government 43,573 43,574 Other government 159,846 163,401 4 Asset-backed securities 20,911 19,177 Corporate debt and other securities 84,387 87,252 Equities 7,421 10,694 At 31 December 2014 406,414 416,878 US Treasury 50,369 50,421 3 US Government agencies 19,211 18,771 3 US Government sponsored entities 5,263 5,445 UK Government 23,565 23,580 Hong Kong Government 49,570 49,579 Other government 153,619 156,208 4 Asset-backed securities 25,961 24,115 Corporate debt and other securities 87,469 88,999 Equities 8,081 9,140 At 31 December 2013 423,108 426,258 US Treasury 60,657 61,925 3 US Government agencies 22,579 23,500 3 US Government sponsored entities 5,262 5,907 UK Government 17,018 17,940 Hong Kong Government 42,687 42,711 Other government 146,507 149,179 4 Asset-backed securities 29,960 26,418 Corporate debt and other securities 86,099 89,777 Equities 4,284 5,789 At 31 December 2012 415,053 423,146 1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment.
2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$53,877m 2013: US$55,303m: 2012: US$59,908m, of which US$8,812m 2013: US$8,946m: 2012: US$6,916m are guaranteed by various governments.
The fair value of the debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$54,375m 2013: US$55,467m: 2012: US$60,616m.
3 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government.
4 Excludes ABSs included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities.
Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted Treasury and Debt Debt Equity other eligible securities securities securities bills available available held to available for sale for sale maturity for sale Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Carrying amount 1 Listed 4,101 168,879 6,037 5,928 184,945 2 Unlisted 77,416 116,626 31,714 4,766 230,522 At 31 December 2014 81,517 285,505 37,751 10,694 415,467 Carrying amount 1 Listed 1,404 134,473 6,176 3,950 146,003 2 Unlisted 76,707 179,117 18,908 5,190 279,922 At 31 December 2013 78,111 313,590 25,084 9,140 425,925 1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2014 was US$6,459m 2013: US$6,281m.
Included within listed investments were US$3,752m 2013: US$2,832m of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong.
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a liquid market.
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2014 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date.
The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
19 Assets charged as security for liabilities, assets transferred and collateral accepted as security for assets Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities 2014 2013 US$m US$m Treasury bills and other eligible securities 5,170 6,387 Loans and advances to banks 17,294 17,733 Loans and advances to customers 77,960 87,894 Debt securities 138,991 190,095 Equity shares 11,373 8,816 Other 6,079 1,035 Assets pledged at 31 December 256,867 311,960 The table above shows assets where a charge has been granted to secure liabilities on a legal and contractual basis.
The amount of such assets may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral for funding purposes or to cover liabilities.
This is the case for securitisations and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued, plus any mandatory , is less than the book value of financial assets available for funding or collateral purposes in the relevant pool of assets.
This is also the case where financial assets are placed with a custodian or settlement agent which has a floating charge over all the financial assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 401 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 19 Assets charged as security 20 Interests in associates and joint ventures These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements.
Assets transferred Accounting policy Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the assets has expired: or when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control.
HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties.
Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in these financial assets being derecognised or continuing to be recognised.
The financial assets shown above include amounts transferred to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, notably debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements.
As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings, the asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and the related liability reflecting the Groups obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for a fixed price at a future date is recognised on the balance sheet.
As a result of these transactions, the Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction.
The Group remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments.
The counterpartys recourse is not limited to the transferred assets.
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities Carrying Carrying Carrying Fair Fair amount of amount of amount of value of value of assets before transferred associated transferred associated Net transfer assets liabilities assets liabilities position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 Repurchase agreements 78,541 79,141 Securities lending agreements 13,177 10,643 Other sales recourse to transferred asset only 3,775 4,049 4,007 4,018 11 Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement 17,427 11 5 11 5 6 At 31 December 2013 Repurchase agreements 125,508 126,175 Securities lending agreements 9,175 8,884 Other sales recourse to transferred asset only 6,707 7,019 6,827 6,707 120 Securitisations recognised to the extent of continuing involvement 17,427 16 8 16 8 8 Collateral accepted as security for assets The fair value of assets accepted as collateral in relation to reverse repo and securities borrowing that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$269,019m 2013: US$259,617m.
The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was US$163,342m 2013: US$186,013m.
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse repurchase agreements.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 402 20 Interests in associates and joint ventures Accounting policy Investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control of an arrangement set up to undertake an economic activity are classified as joint ventures.
HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries Note 22 nor joint ventures, as associates.
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBCs share of net assets.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the cost of investment exceeds HSBCs share of the net fair value of the associates or joint ventures identifiable assets and liabilities.
An investment in an associate is tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment.
Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the respective associates or joint ventures.
Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBCs interest in the associates or joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Impairment of interests in associates Impairment testing involves significant judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from continuing to hold the investment.
The most significant judgements relate to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of Communications BoCom.
Key assumptions used in estimating BoComs value in use, the sensitivity of the value in use calculation to different assumptions and a sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key assumptions that would reduce the excess of value in use over the carrying amount the headroom to nil are described in the Note below.
Associates At 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in associates was US$17,940m 2013: US$16,417m.
Principal associates of HSBC 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 1 1 amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Listed Bank of Communications Co. Limited 14,590 13,140 13,412 9,954 The Saudi British Bank 2,811 6,220 2,437 4,693 At 31 December 17,401 19,360 15,849 14,647 1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges.
The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
At 31 December 2014 Country of HSBCs incorporation interest Issued and principal Principal in equity equity place of business activity capital capital 1 Bank of Communications Co. Limited PRC Banking services 19.03% RMB74,263m The Saudi British Bank Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00% SR10,000m 1 Peoples Republic of China.
Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
HSBC had US$14,590m 2013: US$13,412m of interests in associates listed in Hong Kong.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 403 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 20 Interests in associates and joint ventures Bank of Communications Co. Limited BoCom HSBCs investment in BoCom was equity accounted with effect from August 2004.
HSBCs significant influence in BoCom was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors and, in accordance with the Technical Cooperation and Exchange Programme, HSBC is assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff has been seconded to assist in this process.
Impairment testing At 31 December 2014, the fair value of HSBCs investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for approximately 32 months, apart from a short period in 2013.
As a result, we performed an impairment test on the carrying amount of the investment in BoCom.
The test confirmed that there was no impairment at 31 December 2014.
The recoverable amount was US$15.7bn 2013: US$14.0bn, an excess over carrying amount headroom of US$1.1bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$0.6bn.
The increase in headroom is due to the improved capital position of BoCom.
At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair VIU value value VIU value value US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Bank of Communications Co. Limited 15.7 14.6 13.1 14.0 13.4 10.0 Basis of recoverable amount The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use VIU calculation, with its carrying amount.
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on managements estimates of earnings.
Cash flows beyond the shortto medium-term are then extrapolated in perpetuity using a longterm growth rate.
An imputed capital maintenance charge CMC is included to meet the expected regulatory capital requirements, and calculated as a deduction from forecast cash flows.
The principal inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets, and the expected regulatory capital requirements.
Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation Long-term growth rate: the growth rate used was 5% 2013: 5% for periods after 2018 and does not exceed forecast GDP growth in China.
Discount rate: the discount rate of 13% 2013: 13% is derived from a range of values obtained by applying a Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM calculation for BoCom, using market data.
Management supplements this by comparing the rates derived from the CAPM with discount rates available from external sources, and HSBCs discount rate for evaluating investments in China.
The discount rate used was within the range of 11.4% to 14.2% 2013: 10.5% to 15.0% indicated by the CAPM and external sources.
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: the ratio used ranges from 0.73% to 1% 2013: 0.64% to 1% in the shortto medium-term.
The long-term ratio was assumed to revert to a historical rate of 0.65% 2013: 0.64%.
The rates were within the shortto medium-term range forecasts of 0.51% to 1.08% 2013: 0.55% to 1.20% disclosed by external analysts.
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: the ratio used ranges from 70% to 72% in the shortto medium-term.
The long-term ratio reverts to a rate of 70% 2013: 68.7%.
Cost-income ratio: the ratio used ranges from 40.0% to 42.4% 2013: 39.7% to 43.2% in the shortto medium-term.
The ratios were within the shortto medium-term range forecasts of 37.2% to 44.5% 2013: 38.0% to 44.2% disclosed by external analysts.
Sensitivity analyses were performed on each key assumption to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
The following change to each key assumption used on its own in the VIU calculation would reduce the headroom to nil.
Key assumption Changes to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Long-term growth rate Decrease by 43 basis points Discount rate Increase by 53 basis points Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances Increase by 8 basis points Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets Increase by 3.3% Cost-income ratio Increase by 1.6% The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
This reflects the sensitivity of VIU to each key assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and or unfavourable change will occur at the same time.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, HSBC included the associates results on the basis of financial statements made up for the 12 months to 30 September 2014, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 that would have materially affected the results.
At 30 September 2014 2013 US$m US$m Selected balance sheet information of BoCom Cash and balances at central banks 150,306 142,209 Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 79,960 88,049 Loans and advances to customers 547,706 516,161 Other financial assets 178,883 165,521 Other assets 45,140 34,392 Total assets 1,001,995 946,332 Deposits by banks and other financial institutions 209,935 170,916 Customer accounts 663,745 667,588 Other financial liabilities 28,860 20,564 Other liabilities 25,361 19,655 Total liabilities 927,901 878,723 Total equity 74,094 67,609 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 405 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 20 Interests in associates and joint ventures 21 Goodwill and intangible assets At 30 September 2014 2013 US$m US$m Reconciliation of BoComs total shareholders equity to the carrying amount in HSBCs consolidated financial statements as at 31 December HSBCs share of total shareholders equity 14,040 12,810 Add: Goodwill and other intangible assets 550 602 Carrying amount 14,590 13,412 For the 12 months ended 30 September 2014 2013 US$m US$m Selected income statement information of BoCom Net interest income 22,030 20,768 Net fee and commission income 4,792 4,010 Loan impairment charges 3,509 2,811 Depreciation and amortisation 920 809 Tax expense 3,102 2,823 Profit for the year 10,626 10,099 Other comprehensive income 217 375 Total comprehensive income 10,843 9,724 Dividends received from BoCom 597 549 Summarised aggregate financial information in respect of all associates excluding BoCom 2014 2013 US$m US$m Carrying amount 3,350 3,005 HSBCs share of: total assets 20,099 21,007 total liabilities 16,837 18,056 revenues 801 927 profit or loss from continuing operations 519 408 other comprehensive income 2 9 total comprehensive income 521 417 Joint ventures At 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of HSBCs interests in joint ventures was US$241m 2013: US$223m.
Associates and joint ventures For the year ended 31 December 2014, HSBCs share of associates and joint ventures tax on profit was US$600m 2013: US$556m, which is included within Share of profit in associates and joint ventures in the income statement.
Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 2014 2013 US$m US$m At 1 January 16,640 17,834 Additions 30 26 Disposals 133 3,148 Share of results 2,532 2,325 Dividends 757 694 Exchange differences 212 396 Share of other comprehensive income expense of associates and joint ventures 78 35 Other movements 3 64 1 At 31 December 18,181 16,640 1 Includes goodwill of US$621m 2013: US$608m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 406 21 Goodwill and intangible assets 2014 2013 US$m US$m Goodwill 19,169 21,179 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 5,307 5,335 Other intangible assets 3,101 3,404 At 31 December 27,577 29,918 Goodwill Accounting policy Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
If the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
HSBCs CGUs are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business.
Impairment testing is performed at least annually, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount.
The carrying amount of a CGU is based on its assets and liabilities, including attributable goodwill.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
VIU is the present value of the expected future CGU cash flows.
If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement.
Goodwill is carried on balance sheet at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU.
The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Goodwill impairment The review of goodwill for impairment reflects managements best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but they reflect managements view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment: and the rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation and are based on the costs of capital assigned to individual CGUs.
The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond managements control, are subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant judgement.
A decline in a CGUs expected cash flows and or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If this is lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our income statement for the year.
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions.
In such market conditions, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and managements best estimate of future business prospects.
During 2014, no impairment of goodwill was identified 2013: nil.
In addition to the annual impairment test which was performed as at 1 July 2014, management reviewed the current and expected performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2014 and determined that there was no indication of impairment of the goodwill allocated to them.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 407 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 21 Goodwill and intangible assets Reconciliation of goodwill North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Gross amount At 1 January 2014 14,977 1,016 55 7,861 3,241 27,150 Disposals 168 168 Exchange differences 1,594 30 1 1 240 1,864 Reclassified to held for sale 8 24 16 Other 23 47 18 42 At 31 December 2014 13,207 1,009 54 7,815 3,007 25,092 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2014 5,971 5,971 Exchange differences 1 1 Other 47 47 At 31 December 2014 5,923 5,923 Net carrying amount at 31 December 2014 13,207 1,009 54 1,892 3,007 19,169 Gross amount At 1 January 2013 14,660 1,134 60 8,339 3,646 27,839 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 596 129 5 2 132 328 1 Reclassified to held for sale 611 272 883 Reinstated from held for sale 332 332 Other 11 476 465 At 31 December 2013 14,977 1,016 55 7,861 3,241 27,150 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2013 6,449 6,449 Exchange differences 2 2 Other 476 476 At 31 December 2013 5,971 5,971 Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013 14,977 1,016 55 1,890 3,241 21,179 1 During 2013, goodwill in Europe amounting to US$611m was reclassified to assets held for sale following the decision to sell the private banking operations of HSBC Private Bank Holdings Suisse S. A. in Monaco.
On transfer to held for sale, a write down of the disposal group by US$279m was recorded and allocated to goodwill.
Following the later decision to retain the operations, the reclassification of the assets and liabilities out of held for sale resulted in the reinstatement of the remaining goodwill.
Impairment testing Timing of impairment testing HSBCs impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each CGU is performed as at 1 July each year.
Basis of the recoverable amount The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its VIU at each respective testing date for 2013 and 2014.
For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting managements cash flow projections for the CGU.
The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU operates.
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs.
For the goodwill impairment test conducted at 1 July 2014, managements cash flow projections until the end of 2018 were used.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 408 Key assumptions in VIU calculation Nominal growth rate Goodwill Discount beyond initial cash at 1 July rate flow projections US$m % % Cash-generating unit Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe 4,298 9.1 4.5 Commercial Banking Europe 3,214 10.1 4.2 Global Private Banking Europe 3,808 7.1 3.4 Global Banking and Markets Europe 3,296 11.0 4.2 Retail Banking and Wealth Management Latin America 1,762 12.8 7.9 2014 16,378 Cash-generating unit Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe 4,135 8.0 3.9 Commercial Banking Europe 3,062 10.0 3.8 Global Private Banking Europe 3,607 7.3 3.0 Global Banking and Markets Europe 3,101 9.9 3.7 Retail Banking and Wealth Management Latin America 1,812 11.2 8.6 2013 15,717 At 1 July 2014, aggregate goodwill of US$4,526m 1 July 2013: US$4,550m had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered individually significant.
The Groups CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill.
Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates.
The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of likely future trends.
The rates used for 2013 and 2014 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within which the CGU operates.
Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a CAPM.
The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
These variables are based on the markets assessment of the economic variables and managements judgement.
For the 1 July 2014 test, the methodology used to determine the discount rate for each CGU was refined to more accurately reflect the rates of inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates.
In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates produced by external sources.
HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in managements judgement, those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions.
For 2013 and 2014, internal costs of capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates.
Managements judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the GMB.
The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below.
Global Private Banking Europe: the cash flow forecast for GPB Europe primarily reflects the repositioning of the business that is underway to concentrate on clients aligned with the Groups priorities.
Revenues in GPB Europe are predominately generated through HSBCs client relationships and the key assumption in the cash flow forecast is the level of assets under management and profitability therein following the strategic repositioning.
The cash flow forecast includes increased profitability in GPB Europe which is dependent on management achieving the planned strategic repositioning, in the context of the external environment.
At 1 July 2014, GPB Europe had an excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount headroom of US$1.8bn.
The following changes to the key assumptions in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil Discount rate Increase by 90 basis points Long-term growth rate Decrease by 102 basis points Cash flow projection Decrease by 19.7% The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 409 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 21 Goodwill and intangible assets Favourable Current Unfavourable change model change US$bn US$bn US$bn At 1 July 2014 Carrying amount of CGU: US$7.3bn Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount: $1.8bn Long-term growth rate 100bp 3.4% -100bp VIU 12.2 9.1 7.4 Increase decrease in VIU 3.1 1.7 Discount rate -100bp 7.1% 100bp VIU 12.5 9.1 7.2 Increase decrease in VIU 3.4 1.9 Forecast cash flow 20% 378 -20% VIU 10.9 9.1 7.3 Increase decrease in VIU 1.8 1.8 Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe and Commercial Banking Europe: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM Europe and CMB Europe reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two CGUs.
Key assumptions include the level of interest rates, nominal GDP growth, competitors positions within the market and the level and change in unemployment rates.
While current economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, managements cash flow projections are based primarily on these prevailing conditions.
Risks include slower than expected growth and an uncertain regulatory environment.
RBWM Europe is sensitive to further customer remediation and regulatory actions.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM Europe or CMB Europe.
Global Banking and Markets Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for GB&M Europe is that European markets will continue to recover.
Accordingly, recovery in European revenues is assumed to continue over the projection period to 2018.
Interest rate fluctuations would put further pressure on European markets revenue recovery.
Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for GB&M Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the recommendations set out in the final report by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of GB&M Europe.
Retail Banking and Wealth Management Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for RBWM Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the countries within this CGU, with Brazil and Mexico being the two largest.
Key assumptions include growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan portfolios.
Potential challenges include unfavourable economic conditions restricting client demand and competitor pricing constraining margins.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM Latin America.
Intangible assets Accounting policy Intangible assets are recognised, and those that are acquired in a business combination are distinguished from goodwill, when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with discretionary participating features PVIF, computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships.
Computer software includes both purchased and internally generated software.
The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately as incurred.
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where: intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually.
An intangible asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year: and where intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for PVIF, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life.
The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within Net fee income.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 410 Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful lives as follows: Trade names 10 years Mortgage servicing rights generally between 5 and 12 years Internally generated software between 3 and 5 years Purchased software between 3 and 5 years Customer merchant relationships generally between 3 and 10 years Other generally 10 years Present value of in-force long-term insurance business The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term investment contracts with discretionary participating features DPF and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset.
The asset represents the present value of the equity holders interest in the issuing insurance companies profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date.
The PVIF is determined by discounting the equity holders interest in future profits expected to emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts.
The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees.
The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in Other operating income on a gross of tax basis.
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a risk and valuation framework.
The PVIF asset at 31 December 2014 was US$5.3bn 2013: US$5.3bn.
Movements in PVIF 2014 2013 US$m US$m PVIF at 1 January 5,335 4,847 1 Value of new business written during the year 870 924 Movements arising from in-force business: expected return 545 505 2 experience variances 62 20 changes in operating assumptions 69 186 Investment return variances 34 42 Changes in investment assumptions 75 120 Other adjustments 52 18 Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business 261 525 3 Transfer of assets classified as held for sale 122 Exchange differences and other 167 37 PVIF at 31 December 5,307 5,335 1 Value of new business written during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business.
2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this affects profits on future business.
3 Relates to the UK Pensions business which was classified as held for sale in the first half of the year.
See page 191 for further details.
In the PVIF calculation, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and managements judgement of future trends, and after applying risk margins to reflect any uncertainty in the underlying assumptions.
The main assumptions relate to economic and non-economic assumptions and policyholder behaviour.
Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business.
The key drivers of the movement in the value of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: new business adjusted for anticipated maturities and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour value of new business written during the year : unwind of the discount rate less the reversal of expected cash flows for the period expected return : changes in non-economic operating assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates change in operating assumptions : the effects of changes in projected future cash flows associated with operating assumption experience variances compared with those assumed at the start of the period experience variances : changes related to future investment returns changes in investment assumptions : and the effect of actual investment experience on existing assets compared with the assumptions at the start of the period investment return variances.
The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection assumptions and explicit allowances for financial options and guarantees using stochastic methods.
Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with reference to market risk-free yields.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 411 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 21 Goodwill and intangible assets 22 Investments in subsidiaries Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations Economic assumptions are either set in a way that is consistent with observable market values or, in certain markets including those where the risk free curve is not observable at tenors matching the duration of our insurance contract liabilities we make use of long-term economic assumptions.
Setting such assumptions involves the projection of longterm interest rates and the time horizon over which rates in less developed markets will tend towards the norms observed in mature markets.
The assumptions are informed by relevant historical data and by research and analysis performed by the Groups Economic Research team and external experts.
The valuation of PVIF will be sensitive to any changes in these long-term assumptions in the same way that it is sensitive to observed market movements, and the impact of such changes is included in the sensitivities presented below.
2014 2013 1 1 UK Hong Kong France UK Hong Kong France % % % % % % Weighted average risk free rate 1.65 1.86 1.21 2.45 2.31 2.38 Weighted average risk discount rate 2.15 7.42 1.73 2.95 7.41 4.69 Expense inflation 4.67 3.00 2.00 3.39 3.00 2.00 1 For 2014, the calculation of Frances PVIF assumes a risk discount rate of 1.73% plus a risk margin of US$ 63m.
For 2013, a composite rate of 4.69% was used.
This was equivalent to a rate of 3.08% plus a risk margin of US$64m.
Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from a risk-free rate curve and adding explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best estimate cash flow modelling.
Where shareholders provide options and guarantees to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators.
See page 195 for further details of these guarantees.
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, the relationships are non-linear and the results of the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress.
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in policyholder behaviour.
The sensitivities have increased from 2013 to 2014, driven mainly by falling yields and a flattening of the yield curve in France during 2014.
In the low yield environment the PVIF asset is particularly sensitive to yield curve movements driven by the projected cost of options and guarantees described on page 195.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate 320 184 1 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate 589 289 1 Where a 100 basis point parallel shift in the risk-free rate would result in a negative rate, the effect on PVIF has been calculated using a minimum rate of 0%.
Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions including mortality and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
The table below shows the sensitivity of PVIF to reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
2014 2013 US$m US$m Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: 10% increase in mortality and or morbidity rates 66 84 10% decrease in mortality and or morbidity rates 70 84 10% increase in lapse rates 146 154 10% decrease in lapse rates 165 173 10% increase in expense rates 93 109 10% decrease in expense rates 94 110 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 412 Other intangible assets Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF Internally generated software Other Total US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2014 5,999 2,975 8,974 Additions 732 177 909 Disposals 35 80 115 Amount written off 24 53 77 Other changes 259 156 415 163 At 31 December 2014 6,413 2,863 9,276 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2014 3,809 1,761 5,570 1 Charge for the year 677 261 938 Impairment 11 54 65 Disposals 32 77 109 Amount written off 24 53 77 Other changes 155 57 212 At 31 December 2014 4,286 1,889 6,175 Net carrying amount at 31 December 2014 2,127 974 3,101 Cost At 1 January 2013 5,703 3,345 9,048 Additions 731 142 873 Disposals 117 196 313 Amount written off 57 47 104 Other changes 261 269 530 At 31 December 2013 5,999 2,975 8,974 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 3,469 1,963 5,432 1 Charge for the year 675 179 854 Impairment 39 4 43 Disposals 111 167 278 Amount written off 57 47 104 Other changes 206 171 377 At 31 December 2013 3,809 1,761 5,570 Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013 2,190 1,214 3,404 1 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in Net fee income.
The revaluation net of amortisation charge for mortgage servicing rights was US$67m in 2014 2013: credit of US$34m.
22 Investments in subsidiaries Accounting policy HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries.
HSBC consolidation policy is described in Note 1 h. Subsidiaries which are structured entities are covered in Note 39.
HSBC Holdings investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are reversed through the income statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the investments recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 413 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 22 Investments in subsidiaries Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings At 31 December 2014 HSBCs Country of interest in Issued incorporation equity capital equity Share or registration % capital class Europe HSBC Asset Finance UK Limited England 100 265m Ordinary 1 HSBC Bank A. S. Turkey 100 TRL652m ACommon TRL1 BCommon TRL1 HSBC Bank plc England 100 797m Ordinary 1 Preferred Ordinary 1 Series 2 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 Third Dollar Preference US$0.01 HSBC France France 99.99 337m Shares 5.00 HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA Switzerland 100 CHF1,363m Ordinary CHF1,000 HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG Germany 80.65 75.4m Shares of no par value Asia 1 Hang Seng Bank Limited Hong Kong 62.14 HK$9, 658m Ordinary no par value HSBC Bank Australia Limited Australia 100 A$811m Ordinary no par value 5 HSBC Bank China Company Limited PRC 100 RMB15,400m Ordinary CNY1.00 HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad Malaysia 100 RM115m Ordinary RM0.50 HSBC Bank Taiwan Limited Taiwan 100 TWD34,800m Ordinary TWD10.00 HSBC Life International Limited Bermuda 100 HK$4,178m Ordinary HK$1.00 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$96,052m Ordinary no par value 2 CIP US$1.00 3 CRP US$1.00 4 NIP US$1.00 Middle East and North Africa HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Jersey 100 US$931m Ordinary US$1.00 3 CRP US$1.00 HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. Egypt 94.53 EGP2,796m Ordinary EGP84.00 North America Common shares of no HSBC Bank Canada Canada 100 C$1,225m par value HSBC Bank USA, N. A. USA 100 US$2m Common US$100 6 HSBC Finance Corporation USA 100 Common US$0.01 6 HSBC Securities USA Inc. USA 100 Common US$0.05 Latin America HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. Argentina 99.99 ARS1,244m OrdinaryA ARS1.00 OrdinaryB ARS1.00 HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Mltiplo Brazil 100 BRL6,402m Shares of no par value HSBC Mexico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC Mexico 99.99 MXN5,681m Ordinary MXN2.00 1 Listed in Hong Kong.
6 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the Notes 26 Debt securities in issue, 30 Subordinated liabilities and 34 Non-controlling interests, respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 414 Details of all HSBC subsidiaries, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and HSBC Life International Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities.
Each bank is separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for the relevant country or region.
Our capital management process culminates in the annual Group capital plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary.
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings issuance of equity and non-equity capital and by profit retention.
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries.
Subject to the above, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings ability to provide such investments.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
During 2014 and 2013, none of the Groups subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged by our subsidiaries on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities is set out in Note 37.
Structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights Carrying value of total consolidated assets Nature of SPE 2014 2013 US$bn US$bn Solitaire Funding Ltd 9.0 10.2 Securities investment conduit Mazarin Funding Limited 3.9 7.4 Securities investment conduit Barion Funding Limited 2.0 3.8 Securities investment conduit Malachite Funding Limited 1.4 3.0 Securities investment conduit HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I 1.9 2.1 Securitisation HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II 0.9 1.6 Securitisation Regency Assets Limited 11.0 13.5 Conduit Bryant Park Funding LLC 0.4 Conduit In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant structured entities with total assets of US$22.9bn 2013: US$26.1bn.
For further details, see Note 39.
In each of the above cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 2014 2013 Hang Seng Bank Limited Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86% 37.86% Place of business Hong Kong Hong Kong US$m US$m Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 760 1,332 Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 5,765 4,591 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 513 495 Summarised financial information: total assets 160,769 145,380 total liabilities 144,642 133,253 net operating income before loan impairment 3,687 4,876 profit for the year 2,007 3,517 total comprehensive income for the year 4,460 3,145 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 415 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 23 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 24 Trading liabilities 25 Financial liabilities at FV 23 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets Accounting policy Assets held for sale Assets and liabilities of disposal groups and non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Held-for-sale assets are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except for those assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Immediately before the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the relevant assets and liabilities are measured in accordance with applicable IFRSs.
On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the carrying amounts of any assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5, but are included in a disposal group classified as held for sale, are remeasured under applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group is determined.
Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs deemed cost, less impairment losses and depreciation over their estimated useful lives, as follows: freehold land is not depreciated: freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their remaining useful lives: and leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their remaining useful lives.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor are stated at cost less impairment losses and depreciation over their useful lives, which are generally between 5 years and 20 years.
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if their carrying amount may not be recoverable.
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both, and those investment properties are included on balance sheet at fair value.
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 2014 2013 US$m US$m Prepayments and accrued income 10,554 11,006 Assets held for sale 7,647 4,050 Bullion 15,726 22,929 Endorsements and acceptances 10,775 11,624 Reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts Note 28 1,032 1,408 Employee benefit assets Note 6 5,028 2,140 Other accounts 13,882 12,838 Property, plant and equipment 10,532 10,847 At 31 December 75,176 76,842 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include US$40,622m 2013: US$37,635m of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
Property, plant and equipment selected information 2014 2013 US$m US$m Cost or fair value 21,831 21,927 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 11,299 11,080 Net carrying amount at 31 December 10,532 10,847 Additions at cost 1,477 1,980 Disposals at net book value 69 267 1 Property, plant and equipment : Land and buildings 5,234 5,661 freehold 1,769 2,062 long leasehold 1,252 1,266 medium and short leasehold 2,213 2,333 2 Investment properties 2,236 1,945 1 Includes nil freehold 2013: nil, US$1,306m long leasehold 2013: US$1,309m, US$2,638m medium leasehold 2013: US$2,472m and nil short leasehold 2013: US$2m in Hong Kong.
2 Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties.
Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent more than 74% by value of HSBCs investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited whose valuers are members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors.
Properties in other countries, which represent 26% by value of HSBCs investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 416 24 Trading liabilities Accounting policy Trading liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.
They are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties, and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
They are initially measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value and interest paid recognised in the income statement in Net trading income.
The sale of borrowed securities is classified as trading liabilities.
Trading liabilities 2014 2013 US$m US$m 1 Deposits by banks 41,453 43,130 1 Customer accounts 50,600 57,688 Other debt securities in issue Note 26 33,602 32,155 Other liabilities net short positions in securities 64,917 74,052 At 31 December 190,572 207,025 1 Deposits by banks and customer accounts include repos, settlement accounts, stock lending and other amounts.
At 31 December 2014, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBCs credit risk was a loss of US$79m 2013: loss of US$95m.
25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value Accounting policy The criteria for designating instruments at fair value and their measurement are described in Note 15.
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable.
Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties and are normally derecognised when extinguished.
This section provides examples of such designations: Long-term debt issues.
The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest on certain interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy.
An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, and this mismatch is eliminated through the fair value designation.
Financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts.
HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts insignificant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, but is accounted for as a financial liability.
See Note 28 for contracts where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk.
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries and the corresponding financial assets are designated at fair value.
Liabilities are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts.
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management services are provided.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC 2014 2013 US$m US$m Deposits by banks and customer accounts 160 315 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 6,312 13,491 Debt securities in issue Note 26 46,364 53,363 Subordinated liabilities Note 30 21,822 18,230 Preferred securities Note 30 1,495 3,685 At 31 December 76,153 89,084 The carrying amount at 31 December 2014 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$5,813m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2013: US$4,375m more.
The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$870m 2013: loss of US$1,334m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 417 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 26 Debt securities in issue 27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 28 Liabilities under insurance contracts Financial liabilities designated at fair value HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 US$m US$m Debt securities in issue Note 26 : owed to third parties 8,185 8,106 Subordinated liabilities Note 30 : owed to third parties 9,513 9,760 owed to HSBC undertakings 981 3,161 At 31 December 18,679 21,027 The carrying amount at 31 December 2014 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$2,694m more than the contractual amount at maturity 2013: US$2,309m more.
The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$520m 2013: loss of US$859m.
26 Debt securities in issue Accounting policy Financial liabilities for debt securities issued are recognised when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the instrument.
Debt securities in issue HSBC 2014 2013 US$m US$m Bonds and medium-term notes 132,539 146,116 Other debt securities in issue 43,374 43,482 175,913 189,598 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: trading liabilities Note 24 33,602 32,155 financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 25 46,364 53,363 At 31 December 95,947 104,080 Debt securities in issue HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 US$m US$m Debt securities 9,194 10,897 Of which debt securities in issue reported as: financial liabilities designated at fair value Note 25 8,185 8,106 At 31 December 1,009 2,791 27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 2014 2013 US$m US$m Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 6,934 2,804 Accruals and deferred income 15,075 16,185 Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC 782 1,008 Obligations under finance leases 67 252 Endorsements and acceptances 10,760 11,614 Employee benefit liabilities Note 6 3,208 2,931 Other liabilities 16,570 17,547 At 31 December 53,396 52,341 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include US$43,840m 2013: US$46,258m of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised cost.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 418 28 Liabilities under insurance contracts Accounting policy HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof.
A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an insurance contract.
An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles.
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices.
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows.
When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability.
When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement.
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with DPF Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders.
These provisions reflect actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and management expectation of the future performance of the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate.
This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past distribution policy.
Investment contracts with DPF While investment contracts with DPF are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
The Group therefore recognises the premiums for those contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets.
In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable.
Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement.
Liabilities under insurance contracts Reinsurers Gross share Net US$m US$m US$m 1 Non-linked insurance contracts At 1 January 2014 33,950 1,118 32,832 Claims and benefits paid 3,575 175 3,400 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 7,764 409 7,355 Disposals transfers to held-for-sale 589 527 62 Exchange differences and other movements 577 53 524 At 31 December 2014 36,973 772 36,201 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 2014 26,427 26,427 Claims and benefits paid 2,175 2,175 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,188 3,188 2 Exchange differences and other movements 2,372 2,372 At 31 December 2014 25,068 25,068 Linked life insurance contracts At 1 January 2014 13,804 290 13,514 Claims and benefits paid 1,499 88 1,411 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 2,762 33 2,795 Disposals transfers to held-for-sale 2,547 74 2,473 3 Exchange differences and other movements 700 165 865 At 31 December 2014 11,820 260 11,560 Total liabilities to policyholders at 31 December 2014 73,861 1,032 72,829 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 419 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 29 Provisions Reinsurers Gross share Net US$m US$m US$m 1 Non-linked insurance contracts At 1 January 2013 30,765 952 29,813 Claims and benefits paid 3,014 164 2,850 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 6,892 367 6,525 Disposals transfers to held-for-sale 52 13 39 Exchange differences and other movements 641 24 617 At 31 December 2013 33,950 1,118 32,832 Investment contracts with discretionary participation features At 1 January 2013 24,374 24,374 Claims and benefits paid 2,308 2,308 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,677 3,677 2 Exchange differences and other movements 684 684 At 31 December 2013 26,427 26,427 Linked life insurance contracts At 1 January 2013 13,056 455 12,601 Claims and benefits paid 1,976 426 1,550 Increase in liabilities to policyholders 3,379 111 3,490 3 Exchange differences and other movements 655 372 1,027 At 31 December 2013 13,804 290 13,514 Total liabilities to policyholders at 31 December 2013 74,181 1,408 72,773 1 Includes liabilities under non-life insurance contracts.
2 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.
3 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements.
The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to policyholders in the year.
The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders.
29 Provisions Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Provisions Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows.
Professional expert advice is taken on the assessment of litigation, property including onerous contracts and similar obligations.
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions.
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise.
As matters progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, revising previous judgements and estimates as appropriate.
At more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make judgements and estimates around a better defined set of possible outcomes.
However, the amount provisioned can remain very sensitive to the assumptions used.
There could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries.
As a result, it is often not practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters.
It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties involved.
Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement.
The amounts of provisions recognised depend on a number of different assumptions, for example, the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 420 Provisions Legal proceedings Restructuring Contractual and regulatory Customer Other costs commitments matters remediation provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2014 271 177 1,832 2,382 555 5,217 Additional provisions increase in provisions 147 136 1,752 1,440 154 3,629 Provisions utilised 143 2 1,109 1,769 112 3,135 Amounts reversed 43 46 281 184 66 620 Unwinding of discounts 1 43 10 11 65 Exchange differences and other movements 35 32 53 48 10 158 At 31 December 2014 197 234 2,184 1,831 552 4,998 At 1 January 2013 251 301 1,667 2,387 646 5,252 Additional provisions increase in provisions 179 57 1,209 1,536 230 3,211 Provisions utilised 111 5 709 1,487 167 2,479 Amounts reversed 65 66 340 94 126 691 Unwinding of discounts 38 7 13 58 Exchange differences and other movements 17 110 33 33 41 134 At 31 December 2013 271 177 1,832 2,382 555 5,217 Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 40, including the provisions made on foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation.
Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies whether by way of claim or counterclaim or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings.
Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly.
Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action.
Payment protection insurance At 31 December 2014, a provision of US$1,079m 31 December 2013: US$946m was held relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in previous years.
An increase in provisions of US$960m was recognised during the year, primarily reflecting an increase in inbound complaints by claims management companies compared to previous forecasts.
The current projected trend of inbound complaint volumes implies that the redress programme will be complete by the first quarter of 2018.
However, this timing is subject to uncertainty as the trend may change over time based on actual experience.
Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in the first half of 2011 amounted to US$4.2bn of which US$3.2bn had been paid as at 31 December 2014.
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 8% per annum or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher.
The basis for calculating the redress liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies.
Future estimated redress levels are based on historically observed redress per policy.
A total of approximately 5.4m PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, generating estimated revenues of US$4.3bn at 2014 average exchange rates.
The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately US$5.6bn at 2014 average exchange rates.
At 31 December 2014, the estimated total complaints expected to be received was 1.9m, representing 36% of total policies sold.
It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 2.3m policies, representing 42% of total policies sold.
This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as HSBCs proactive contact exercise on certain policies outbound contact.
The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2014 and the number of claims expected in the future: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 421 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 29 Provisions 30 Subordinated liabilities Cumulative to 31 December Future 2014 expected 1 Inbound complaints 000s of policies 1,215 344 Outbound contact 000s of policies 448 291 Response rate to outbound contact 51% 51% 2 Average uphold rate per claim 77% 71% Average redress per claim US$ 2,611 3,115 1 Excludes invalid claims where the complainant has not held a PPI policy.
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact.
The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint.
The main assumptions are likely to evolve over time as root cause analysis continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint volumes received, and we handle responses to our ongoing outbound contact.
A 100,000 increase decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately US$222m at 2014 average exchange rates.
Each 1% increase decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would increase decrease the redress provision by approximately US$13m.
In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and circumstances of each individual customers case.
For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress.
Interest rate derivatives At 31 December 2014, a provision of US$312m 31 December 2013: US$776m was held relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK.
The provision relates to the estimated redress payable to customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, the expected writeoff by the bank of open derivative contract balances, and estimated project costs.
An increase in the provision of US$288m was recorded during the year, reflecting updated claims experience and the announcement by the FCA on 28 January 2015 of the extension of the scheme to 31 March 2015, and expectation of an additional population who will opt into the scheme following communications to affected customers.
The extent to which HSBC is ultimately required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other customers during the review period and analysis of the facts and circumstances of each individual case, including consequential loss claims received.
For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress related to this programme.
UK Consumer Credit Act HSBC has undertaken a review of compliance with the fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement requirements of the UK Consumer Credit Act CCA.
US$379m has been recognised at 31 December 2014 within Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities for the repayment of interest to customers, primarily where annual statements did not remind them of their right to partially prepay the loan, notwithstanding that the customer loan documentation did refer to this right.
The cumulative liability to date is US$591m, of which payments of US$212m have been made to customers.
There is uncertainty as to whether other technical requirements of the CCA have been met, for which we have assessed the contingent liability as up to US$0.9bn.
Brazilian labour, civil and fiscal claims Within Legal proceedings and regulatory matters above are labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions of US$501m 2013: US$500m.
Of these provisions, US$246m 2013: US$232m was in respect of labour and overtime litigation claims brought by past employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank.
The main assumptions involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels and the facts and circumstances of each individual case.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 422 30 Subordinated liabilities HSBC 2014 2013 US$m US$m Subordinated liabilities At amortised cost 26,664 28,976 subordinated liabilities 22,355 24,573 preferred securities 4,309 4,403 Designated at fair value Note 25 23,317 21,915 subordinated liabilities 21,822 18,230 preferred securities 1,495 3,685 At 31 December 49,981 50,891 Subordinated liabilities HSBC Holdings 25,277 22,308 Other HSBC 24,704 28,583 At 31 December 49,981 50,891 HSBCs subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC.
Where applicable, capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable may step-up or become floating rate based on interbank rates.
Interest rates on the floating rate capital securities are generally related to interbank offered rates.
On the remaining capital securities, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRSs basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments contribute to regulatory capital due to the inclusion of issuance costs, regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits prescribed in the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV.
HSBCs subordinated liabilities in issue First call Maturity 2014 2013 date date US$m US$m 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings plc 2 1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2014 2,022 500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Jun 2015 779 825 750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2016 979 1,129 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, US$900m series 2 Jun 2030 891 891 2,649 4,867 1 Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc 300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020 515 534 700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031 1,091 1,157 1,606 1,691 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc 3 500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes Sep 2015 Sep 2020 802 866 4 350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes Mar 2018 Mar 2023 605 635 300m 6.50% subordinated notes Jul 2023 466 494 5 350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes Nov 2025 Nov 2030 620 602 500m 5.375% subordinated notes Aug 2033 905 884 225m 6.25% subordinated notes Jan 2041 349 370 600m 4.75% subordinated notes Mar 2046 924 980 6 500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes Sep 2015 Sep 2020 588 655 US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes May 2025 400 380 US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990 750 751 US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990 500 499 US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992 300 299 7,209 7,415 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 423 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 30 Subordinated liabilities First call Maturity 2014 2013 date date US$m US$m Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes Aug 1990 403 404 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes second series Dec 1990 401 402 US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes third series Jul 1991 400 400 1,204 1,206 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Australia Limited AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes Nov 2015 Nov 2020 164 179 164 179 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022 143 152 MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds Nov 2022 Nov 2027 144 154 287 306 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC USA Inc. US$200m 7.808% capital securities Dec 2006 Dec 2026 200 200 US$200m 8.38% capital securities May 2007 May 2027 200 200 7 US$150m 9.50% subordinated debt Apr 2014 151 US$150m 7.75% Capital Trust pass through securities Nov 2006 Nov 2026 150 150 US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes Sep 2020 738 746 US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures Jul 2097 216 215 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m 297 299 1,801 1,961 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
7 US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes Apr 2014 1,000 US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes Aug 2017 508 513 US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes Aug 2020 1,210 1,262 US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes Nov 2034 1,245 1,081 US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes Aug 2035 934 811 US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes Jan 2039 676 696 4,573 5,363 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Finance Corporation 8 US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities Nov 2015 Nov 2035 998 996 9 US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes Jan 2021 2,185 2,182 3,183 3,178 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Brazil S. A. BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit Feb 2015 144 162 BRL500m Subordinated floating rate certificates of deposit Dec 2016 188 212 10 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m 81 224 413 598 Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada CAD400m 4.80% subordinated debentures Apr 2017 Apr 2022 367 403 CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures Mar 2016 Mar 2021 172 188 CAD39m Floating rate debentures Oct 1996 Nov 2083 34 37 573 628 Securities issued by HSBC Mexico, S. A.
11 MXN1,818m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Sep 2013 Sep 2018 124 138 11 MXN2,273m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Dec 2013 Dec 2018 154 173 11,12 US$300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations Jun 2014 Jun 2019 240 240 518 551 Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 11 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m 524 640 Total of subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 24,704 28,583 1 See paragraph below, Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank.
2 In March 2014, HSBC called and redeemed the 1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities at par.
3 The interest rate payable after September 2015 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 0.82%.
4 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%.
5 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50%.
6 The interest margin increases by 0.5% from September 2015.
7 In April 2014, HSBC redeemed the $1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes and the 9.5% subordinated debt security at par.
8 The distributions change in November 2015 to three-month dollar Libor plus 1.926%.
9 Approximately 25% of the senior subordinated notes are held by HSBC Holdings.
10 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRAs GENPRU as applied in 2013 and CRD IV rules as applied in 2014.
11 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRAs GENPRU as applied in 2013 and CRD IV rules as applied in 2014.
12 Approximately US$60m of the subordinated obligations are held by HSBC Holdings.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 424 HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 US$m US$m Subordinated liabilities: at amortised cost 17,255 14,167 designated at fair value Note 25 10,494 12,921 At 31 December 27,749 27,088 HSBC Holdings subordinated liabilities First call Maturity 2014 2013 date date US$m US$m Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc Amounts owed to third parties 1 US$488m 7.625% subordinated notes May 2032 538 554 1 US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes Nov 2032 278 278 1 US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes May 2036 2,029 2,029 1 US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes Sep 2037 3,278 3,039 1 US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes Jun 2038 1,487 1,487 2,5 US$2,000m 4.25% subordinated notes Mar 2024 2,069 2,5 US$1,500m 5.25% subordinated notes Mar 2044 1,735 1,3 900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,558 1,672 2 650m 5.75% subordinated notes Dec 2027 1,176 1,158 2 650m 6.75% subordinated notes Sep 2028 1,005 1,066 2 750m 7.0% subordinated notes Apr 2038 1,217 1,288 2 900m 6.0% subordinated notes Mar 2040 1,379 1,464 2 1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes Mar 2018 1,950 2,210 2 1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes Jun 2019 2,623 2,884 1,4 700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes Jun 2015 Jun 2020 878 1,007 1,2, 5 1,500m 3.375% callable subordinated notes Jan 2019 Jan 2024 1,898 2,075 25,098 22,211 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 6 1,400m 5.3687% fixed floating subordinated notes Mar 2014 Dec 2043 2,024 500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2015 Jun 2040 779 825 750m 5.13% fixed floating subordinated notes Mar 2016 Dec 2044 981 1,137 US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891 891 2,651 4,877 At 31 December 27,749 27,088 1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 2 securities in accordance with the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV rules.
2 These securities are included in the capital base of HSBC as fully CRD IV compliant tier 2 securities on an end point basis.
3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3%.
4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%.
5 These subordinated notes are measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, while they are measured at fair value in the Group.
6 In March 2014, HSBC Holdings called and redeemed the 1,400m 5.3687% fixed floating subordinated notes at par.
Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are included in HSBCs capital base as tier 1 capital and are perpetual subordinated securities on which investors are entitled, subject to certain conditions, to receive distributions which are non-cumulative.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank above ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up.
The eligibility criteria for tier 1 securities changed on the introduction of CRD IV rules on 1 January 2014.
For further guidance on the criteria for additional tier 1 securities, see note 35.
Instruments issued before CRD IV comes into effect which do not meet the identifying criteria in full are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering limits and progressive phase-out.
Capital securities that have been issued during 2014 are recognised as fully CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis and are accounted for as equity and detailed in Note 35.
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank The six capital securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank are non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities issued by Jersey limited partnerships.
The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes.
These preferred securities qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC under CRD IV by virtue of application of grandfathering provisions and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank also qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank on a solo and a consolidated basis under CRD IV by virtue of application of grandfathering provisions.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 425 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 30 Subordinated liabilities 31 Maturity analysis These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the relevant issuer.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBCs capital adequacy requirements or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank have insufficient distributable reserves as defined.
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their ordinary shares, or effect repurchases or redemptions of their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings if i HSBCs total capital ratio falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or ii the Directors expect, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Holdings, that i will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Holdings which have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank if i any of the two issues of preferred securities are outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively, or ii the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or iii in view of the deteriorating financial condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect ii to occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.
Tier 2 capital securities These capital securities are included within HSBCs capital base as tier 2 capital under CRD IV by virtue of application of grandfathering provisions with the exception of identified HSBC Holding securities which are compliant with CRD IV end point rules.
Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual subordinated securities or dated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons.
In accordance with CRD IV, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes in their final five years before maturity.
31 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments The table on page 427 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date.
Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows: except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities including trading derivatives are included in the Due not more than 1 month time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time: financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as equity securities are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket: non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket: financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction: and liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity.
Undated investment contracts are classified based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give.
Where there is no contractual notice period, undated contracts are included in the Due over 5 years time bucket.
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
2 Includes US$342,927m 2013: US$355,980m insured by guarantee schemes.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 431 Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 Loan and other credit-related commitments 3,313 4,312 607 8,232 At 31 December 2013 Loan and other credit-related commitments 953 953 Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2014 Loan and other credit-related commitments 455,319 52,398 8,919 14,163 41,500 13,979 48,333 16,769 651,380 Of which: personal 179,088 15,784 452 305 14,036 1,432 1,003 955 213,055 corporate and commercial 239,646 34,657 7,595 12,556 23,519 9,926 36,918 12,185 377,002 financial 36,585 1,957 872 1,302 3,945 2,621 10,412 3,629 61,323 At 31 December 2013 Loan and other credit-related commitments 404,598 45,255 18,770 16,927 20,242 13,320 46,652 21,839 587,603 Of which: personal 148,541 14,700 454 10,683 12,131 1,273 704 6,469 194,955 corporate and commercial 225,333 29,191 17,794 5,662 4,879 9,009 41,851 12,096 345,815 financial 30,724 1,364 522 582 3,232 3,038 4,097 3,274 46,833 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview Notes on the Financial Statements continued 31 Maturity analysis HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 432 HSBC Holdings Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 249 249 Derivatives 2,287 127 357 2,771 trading 2,287 2,287 non-trading 127 357 484 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 7,007 858 7,676 14 28,355 43,910 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 26 6 4,041 4,073 Accrued income and other financial assets 8 8 Total financial assets at 31 December 2014 9,577 864 7,676 14 127 32,753 51,011 Non-financial assets 96,853 96,853 Total assets at 31 December 2014 9,577 864 7,676 14 127 129,606 147,864 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,423 32 1 436 2,892 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,110 2,623 14,946 18,679 debt securities in issue 1,110 7,075 8,185 subordinated liabilities and preferred securities 2,623 7,871 10,494 Derivatives 1,066 103 1,169 trading 1,066 1,066 non-trading 103 103 Debt securities in issue 1,009 1,009 Accruals and other financial liabilities 924 208 137 21 1,290 Subordinated liabilities 1,951 15,304 17,255 Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 4,413 208 169 21 1 1,546 4,677 31,259 42,294 Non-financial liabilities 125 125 Total liabilities at 31 December 2014 4,413 208 169 21 1 1,546 4,677 31,384 42,419 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 16 16 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 433 Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years Due not but not but not but not but not but not but not more than more than more than more than more than more than more than Due over 1 month 3 months 6 months 9 months 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 407 407 Derivatives 2,729 60 2,789 trading 2,729 2,729 non-trading 60 60 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 8,394 4,374 7,595 14 16 32,951 53,344 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 23 8 330 849 1,210 Accrued income and other financial assets 10 10 Total financial assets at 31 December 2013 11,563 4,374 7,603 14 16 330 33,860 57,760 Non-financial assets 93,076 93,076 Total assets at 31 December 2013 11,563 4,374 7,603 14 16 330 126,936 150,836 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 3,770 12 2,234 1 463 5,205 11,685 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,283 19,744 21,027 debt securities in issue 1,283 6,823 8,106 subordinated liabilities and preferred securities 12,921 12,921 Derivatives 704 704 trading 704 704 non-trading Debt securities in issue 1,721 1,070 2,791 Accruals and other financial liabilities 777 109 261 22 1,169 Subordinated liabilities 2,210 11,957 14,167 Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 3,956 37,976 51,543 Non-financial liabilities 206 206 Total liabilities at 31 December 2013 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 3,956 38,182 51,749 Off-balance sheet commitments given Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 1,245 1,245 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 32 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities 33 Foreign exchange exposure 32 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities Accounting policy Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously the offset criteria.
2 Including amounts that are both subject to and not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements.
3 For the amount of reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 168.
In the analysis above, the US$9,266m 31 December 2013: US$20,438m of trading assets presented in the balance sheet comprised US$1,297m of reverse repos 31 December 2013: US$10,120m and US$7,969m of stock borrowing 31 December 2013: US$10,318m.
4 At 31 December 2014, the total amount of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost was US$974,660m 31 December 2013: US$992,089m of which US$63,693m 31 December 2013: US$99,783m was subject to offsetting.
For the amount of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost recognised in the balance sheet, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 168.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 434 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross Gross Amounts Amounts not set off in amounts of amounts presented the balance sheet recognised offset in the in the Cash financial balance balance Financial collateral Net 1 liabilities sheet sheet instruments pledged amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Derivatives Note 16 591,134 250,465 340,669 272,815 40,291 27,563 Repos, stock lending and similar 3 agreements 211,938 88,676 123,262 121,722 105 1,435 Classified as: trading liabilities 16,220 390 15,830 15,828 2 non-trading liabilities 195,718 88,286 107,432 105,894 105 1,433 4 Customer accounts at amortised cost 107,088 37,527 69,561 55,989 13,572 At 31 December 2014 910,160 376,668 533,492 450,526 40,396 42,570 2 Derivatives Note 16 561,614 287,330 274,284 216,596 29,093 28,595 Repos, stock lending and similar 3 agreements 282,634 88,775 193,859 193,354 81 424 Classified as: trading liabilities 48,209 18,570 29,639 29,625 14 non-trading liabilities 234,425 70,205 164,220 163,729 81 410 4 Customer accounts at amortised cost 195,153 92,654 102,499 89,394 13,105 At 31 December 2013 1,039,401 468,759 570,642 499,344 29,174 42,124 1 Including non-cash collateral.
3 For the amount of repos, stock lending and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 168.
In the analysis above, the US$15,830m 31 December 2013: US$29,639m of trading liabilities presented in the balance sheet comprised US$3,798m of repos 31 December 2013: US$17,421m and US$12,032m of stock lending 31 December 2013: US$12,218m.
4 At 31 December 2014, the total amount of customer accounts at amortised cost was US$1,350,642m 31 December 2013: US$1,361,297m of which US$69,561m 31 December 2013: US$102,499m was subject to offsetting.
For the amount of customer accounts at amortised cost recognised in the balance sheet, see the Funding sources and uses table on page 168.
The Amounts not set off in the balance sheet for derivatives and reverse repurchase repurchase, stock borrowing lending and similar agreements include transactions where: the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right of set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied: and cash and non-cash collateral received pledged in respect of the transactions described above.
For loans and advances to customers and Customer accounts at amortised cost the amounts included in the table above typically relate to transactions entered into with corporate and commercial customers for working capital management purposes.
The Amounts not set off in the balance sheet relate to transactions where the customer has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and an agreement is in place with the right of offset but the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of such exposures are subject to limits which are monitored and the relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right of offset remains appropriate.
33 Foreign exchange exposures Structural foreign exchange exposures HSBCs structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity and subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar functional currencies.
Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income.
HSBCs management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed on page 181.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 435 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Strategic Report Review Notes on the Financial Statements continued 34 Non-controlling interests 35 Share capital and other equity instruments Net structural foreign exchange exposures 2014 2013 US$m US$m Currency of structural exposure 1 Pound sterling 30,071 28,403 Chinese renminbi 24,578 20,932 Hong Kong dollars 24,028 18,974 Euros 20,378 22,014 Mexican pesos 5,249 5,932 Brazilian real 4,910 5,581 Canadian dollars 4,187 4,372 Indian rupees 3,466 3,222 Saudi riyals 2,910 2,531 Malaysian ringgit 2,219 2,194 UAE dirhams 2,199 3,069 Swiss francs 1,864 1,940 Taiwanese dollars 1,721 1,527 Australian dollars 1,516 1,515 Turkish lira 1,366 1,533 Korean won 1,360 1,373 Indonesian rupiah 1,352 1,244 Singapore dollars 1,185 849 Argentine pesos 1,059 1,067 Egyptian pounds 868 739 Others, each less than US$700m 5,918 6,157 At 31 December 142,404 135,168 1 During 2014, we entered into a forward foreign exchange contract amounting to US$1.6bn in order to manage our sterling structural foreign exchange exposure.
Shareholders equity would decrease by US$2,522m 2013: US$2,521m if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar.
34 Non-controlling interests 2014 2013 US$m US$m Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries 7,104 5,900 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 2,427 2,688 931 At 31 December 9,531 8,588 Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if the dividend is not paid, it may not be cumulative.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up.
These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator.
Dividends on floating rate preferred securities are generally related to interbank offer rates.
Included in the capital base of HSBC are non-cumulative preferred securities classified as additional tier 1 capital and cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 2 capital in accordance with CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
Preferred securities issued by HSBCs subsidiaries First call 2014 2013 date US$m US$m HSBC USA Inc. US$150m Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, series D Jul 1999 150 150 US$150m Cumulative preferred stock Oct 2007 150 150 US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F Apr 2010 518 518 US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G Jan 2011 374 374 US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H Jul 2011 374 374 HSBC Finance Corporation.
US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B Jun 2010 559 559 HSBC Bank Canada CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 151 164 CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 151 164 1 CAD250m Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, series E Jun 2014 235 At 31 December 2,427 2,688 1 In June 2014, HSBC redeemed its non-cumulative 5 year reset class 1 preferred shares series E for US$234m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 436 35 Called up share capital and other equity instruments Accounting policy Financial instruments issued are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash, other financial assets or issue a variable number of own equity instruments.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
HSBC Holdings shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled.
When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects.
Issued and fully paid HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each 2014 2013 US$m US$m 1 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at 31 December 9,609 9,415 Number US$m At 1 January 2014 18,830,007,039 9,415 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 119,391,238 60 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 268,475,983 134 At 31 December 2014 19,217,874,260 9,609 At 1 January 2013 18,476,008,664 9,238 Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans 120,033,493 60 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 233,964,882 117 At 31 December 2013 18,830,007,039 9,415 HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each Number US$m 2 At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 1,450,000 At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 1,450,000 1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as additional tier 1 capital in accordance with the CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue dollar preference shares are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the PRA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the dollar preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the dollar preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then current dividend period.
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings.
Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates.
In such circumstances, holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference shares.
HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the PRA.
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of 0.01 The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of 0.01 in issue sterling preference share has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings.
Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board.
The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company.
Other equity instruments Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC comprise of additional tier 1 capital securities and additional tier 1 contingent convertible securities.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 437 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Strategic Report Review Notes on the Financial Statements continued 35 Called up share capital 36 Notes on the statement of cash flows Additional tier 1 capital securities Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings.
While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any securities of lower or equal rank.
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up.
These securities have been included in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with CRD IV rules by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions.
At HSBC Holdings discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue.
The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid.
These securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity First call 2014 2013 date US$m US$m US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 At 31 December 5,851 5,851 Additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities During 2014, HSBC issued new contingent convertible securities that are included in HSBCs capital base as fully CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis.
The net proceeds of the issuances will be used for general corporate purposes and to further strengthen the capital base pursuant to requirements under CRD IV.
These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates.
After the initial call dates, in the event they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates which are fixed periodically in advance for five year periods based on prevailing market rates.
Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel in whole or in part any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date.
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations, or other requirements, if HSBC Holdings has insufficient reserves available for distribution or if HSBC fails to satisfy the solvency condition as defined in the securities terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of HSBC, in whole at the initial call date, or on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date.
In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons.
Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA.
These securities rank pari passu with HSBCs dollar and sterling preference shares and are therefore ahead of ordinary shares.
The contingent convertible securities will be converted into ordinary shares of HSBC, at a pre-determined price, should HSBCs consolidated, end-point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%.
Therefore, per the terms of the securities, on bail-in the securities will convert into ordinary shares at a conversion price of 2.70 subject to certain anti-dilution and foreign exchange adjustments and will rank pari passu with the fully paid ordinary shares in issue.
HSBCs additional tier 1 capital contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity First call 2014 2013 date US$m US$m US$2,250m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2024 2,244 US$1,500m 5.625% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jan 2020 1,494 1,500m 5.25% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2022 1,943 At 31 December 5,681 Shares under option For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 6.
The total number of shares at 31 December 2014 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 7,943,191 2013: 12,068,136.
36 Notes on the statement of cash flows Other non-cash items included in profit before tax HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2,251 2,330 2,531 39 35 Gains losses arising from dilution of interests in associates 32 1,051 Revaluations on investment property 120 113 72 Share-based payment expense 732 630 988 74 49 Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit risk provisions 5,125 7,356 9,358 Provisions 3,074 2,578 5,732 Impairment release of impairment of financial investments 54 36 519 Charge credit for defined benefit plans 535 121 476 Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums 421 180 246 62 10 Year ended 31 December 11,262 11,995 19,778 51 74 Change in operating assets HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in loans to HSBC undertakings 1,364 11,669 Change in net trading securities and net derivatives 18,498 24,870 36,829 483 923 Change in loans and advances to banks 5,147 4,739 1,174 Change in loans and advances to customers 12,666 46,551 79,388 Change in reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 18,900 70,403 6,678 Change in financial assets designated at fair value 3,269 4,922 2,698 Change in other assets 4,393 2,586 5,458 7 49 Year ended 31 December 25,877 148,899 116,521 1,854 10,795 Change in operating liabilities HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in deposits by banks 9,081 7,781 274 Change in customer accounts 8,362 57,365 92,238 Change in repurchase agreements non-trading 56,788 123,653 7,834 Change in debt securities in issue 8,133 15,381 11,552 149 98 Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value 10,734 994 2,549 694 550 Change in other liabilities 716 5,907 13,395 9,071 609 Year ended 31 December 93,814 164,757 89,070 9,914 1,061 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 439 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Strategic Report Review Notes on the Financial Statements continued 36 Notes on the statement of cash flows 37 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees Cash and cash equivalents Accounting policy Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are normally those with less than three months maturity from the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings 249 407 Cash and balances at central banks 129,957 166,599 141,532 Items in the course of collection from other banks 4,927 6,021 7,303 Loans and advances to banks of one month or less 89,285 96,584 119,400 Reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less 68,930 68,007 28,832 Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months 14,192 15,980 25,379 Less: items in the course of transmission to other banks 5,990 6,910 7,138 At 31 December 301,301 346,281 315,308 249 407 1 Measured at amortised cost from 2013.
Interest and dividends HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest paid 15,633 17,262 18,412 2,463 2,705 Interest received 51,522 50,823 61,112 1,945 1,986 Dividends received 1,199 1,133 766 9,077 20,925 The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2014 was US$43,738m 2013: US$38,019m, of which US$29,883m 2013: US$21,811m related to mandatory deposits at central banks.
Disposal of subsidiaries and businesses During 2014, we completed the disposals of HSBC Bank Middle East Limiteds banking business in Jordan and operations in Pakistan.
This resulted in a net US$303m outflow of cash and cash equivalents which is included under Cash flow from investing activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 338.
In October 2013, we completed the disposal of HSBC Bank Panama S. A. receiving total cash consideration of US$2,210m which is included under Cash flow from investing activities in the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 338.
The effect of disposals of subsidiaries and businesses in 2012 is tabulated below.
2012 US cards US branch Other business network disposals Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 28,007 2,166 7,302 37,475 Total liabilities 161 13,206 8,463 21,830 Aggregate net assets at date of disposal, excluding cash and cash equivalents 27,846 11,040 1,161 15,645 Non-controlling interests disposed 81 81 Gain on disposal including costs to sell 3,148 864 355 4,367 Add back: costs to sell 72 15 56 143 Selling price 31,066 10,161 831 20,074 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents received paid as consideration 31,066 10,091 542 20,433 Cash and cash equivalents sold 70 321 391 Cash consideration received paid up to 31 December 2012 31,066 10,161 863 20,042 Cash still to be received at 31 December 2012 32 32 Total cash consideration 31,066 10,161 831 20,074 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 440 37 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees Accounting policy Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and contingent liabilities related to legal proceedings or regulatory matters see Note 40, are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC: or are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote.
Financial guarantee contracts Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable.
Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligations.
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities.
HSBC elects to account for certain guarantees as insurance contracts in HSBC Holdings financial statements, in which case they are measured and recognised as insurance liabilities.
This election is made on a contract by contract basis, and is irrevocable.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees HSBC HSBC Holdings 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m Guarantees and contingent liabilities Guarantees 86,385 84,554 52,023 52,836 Other contingent liabilities 346 182 At 31 December 86,731 84,736 52,023 52,836 Commitments Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 12,082 12,154 Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 823 1,005 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 638,475 574,444 16 1,245 At 31 December 651,380 587,603 16 1,245 The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments, guarantees and other contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are disclosed in Notes 29 and 40.
Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements.
Social Security tax claims in Brazil In April 2008, a final judicial decision was issued in favour of HSBC insurance and leasing companies in Brazil, clarifying that the Profit participation contribution PIS and the Social security financing contribution COFINS should only be levied on the revenues from the sale of goods and services and not on income derived from insurance premiums and financial revenue.
The resulting reduction of the tax basis and the offsetting of tax credits was made by HSBC at that time, in accordance with this decision, but later challenged by the Brazilian tax authority claiming that the basis of those taxes should include all revenues from the corporate activity of the tax payer.
With the enactment of a new law in force from 1 January 2015, the tax base for PIS and COFINS has been expanded to include all revenue from corporate activity, including insurance and financing income: therefore, any possible obligation for HSBC to pay any additional taxes only relates to tax years up to the end of 2014.
These tax assessments are in various stages of the administrative process.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable for HSBC to predict the timing of the resolution of these matters.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 441 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 38 Lease commitments 39 Structured entities Guarantees 2014 2013 Guarantees by Guarantees by HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings Guarantees in favour of Guarantees in favour of in favour of other in favour of other third parties Group entities third parties Group entities US$m US$m US$m US$m Guarantee type 1 Financial guarantees 30,406 36,800 31,224 36,800 2 Credit-related guarantees 16,672 15,223 15,076 16,036 Other guarantees 39,307 38,254 At 31 December 86,385 52,023 84,554 52,836 1 Financial guarantees are contracts that require HSBC to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due.
2 Credit-related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract under IAS 39.
The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBCs maximum exposure under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings.
The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and managed in accordance with HSBCs overall credit risk management policies and procedures.
Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year.
Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBCs annual credit review process.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a number of deposit takers.
The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans from the Bank of England and HM Treasury which at 31 December 2014 stood at approximately 16bn US$24.9bn.
In order to repay the loan principal which is not expected to be recovered, the FSCS levies participating financial institutions.
In January 2015, the FSCS announced that the expected levy on participating financial institutions for Scheme Year 2015 2016 would be 347m US$541m 2014 2015: 399m US$660m.
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is dependent on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time.
Capital commitments In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 441, at 31 December 2014 HSBC had US$656m 2013: US$401m of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$101m 2013: US$112m of capital commitments authorised but not contracted for.
Associates HSBCs share of associates contingent liabilities amounted to US$47,593m at 31 December 2014 2013: US$46,574m.
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
38 Lease commitments Accounting policy Agreements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets are classified as finance leases.
As a lessor under finance leases, HSBC presents the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, in Loans and advances to banks or Loans and advances to customers.
As a lessee under finance leases, HSBC presents the leased assets in Property, plant and equipment with the corresponding liability included in Other liabilities.
A finance lease asset and its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
As lessor, HSBC presents assets subject to operating leases in Property, plant and equipment.
Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that carrying values are not fully recoverable.
As a lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Finance income or charges on the finance lease are recognised in Net interest income over the lease periods so as to give a constant rate of return.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease periods and are recognised in General and administrative expenses or in Other operating income.
Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2014, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and equipment were US$5,372m 2013 US$5,496m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 442 Finance lease receivables HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets such as aircraft, property and general plant and machinery.
At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms.
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income.
2014 2013 Total future Unearned Total future Unearned minimum finance Present minimum finance Present payments income value payments income value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Lease receivables: no later than one year 3,383 374 3,009 3,370 360 3,010 later than one year and no later than five years 8,089 980 7,109 7,933 990 6,943 later than five years 5,013 744 4,269 5,064 856 4,208 At 31 December 16,485 2,098 14,387 16,367 2,206 14,161 39 Structured entities Accounting policy A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, and key activities are directed by contractual arrangements.
Structured entities often have restricted activities and a narrow and well defined objective.
Structured entities are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1 h. HSBC is involved with structured entities, mainly through securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds.
HSBC arrangements that involve structured entities are authorised centrally when they are established to ensure appropriate purpose and governance.
The activities of structured entities administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.
HSBC has involvement with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities, which may be established by HSBC or by a third party, as detailed below.
Consolidated structured entities Total assets of HSBCs consolidated structured entities, split by entity type HSBC managed Conduits Securitisations funds Other Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2014 27.2 7.9 11.2 6.7 53.0 At 31 December 2013 38.9 7.1 13.9 8.2 68.1 Conduits HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits SICs and multi-seller conduits.
These entities have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who has control: in such cases, the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangement.
The conduits are consolidated as HSBC is exposed or has the right to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect its returns through its power over the entity.
Securities investment conduits Solitaire, HSBCs principal SIC, purchases highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
At 31 December 2014, Solitaire held US$8.0bn of ABSs 2013: US$9.0bn.
These are included within the disclosures of ABSs held through consolidated structured entities on page 162.
HSBCs other SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from the restructuring of HSBCs structured investment vehicles in 2008.
Solitaire Solitaire is currently funded entirely by commercial paper CP issued to HSBC.
Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it so long as HSBC purchases the CP issued, which it intends to do for the foreseeable future.
Mazarin HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarins assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lesser of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets.
At 31 December 2014, this amounted to US$3.9bn 2013: US$7.4bn.
First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties.
At 31 December 2014, HSBC held 1.2% of Mazarins capital notes 2013: 1.3% with a par value of US$10m 2013: US$17m and a carrying amount of US$1.4m 2013: US$0.3m.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 443 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 39 Structured entities Barion and Malachite HSBCs primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles.
At 31 December 2014, this amounted to US$3.0bn 2013: US$6.3bn.
First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially all held by third parties.
At 31 December 2014, HSBC held 9.9% of the capital notes 2013: 3.8% issued by these vehicles with a par value of US$54.8m 2013: US$37m and a carrying amount of US$10.1m 2013: US$3.3m.
Multi-seller conduits These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for HSBCs clients.
HSBC bears risk equal to transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits amounting to US$15.4bn at 31 December 2014 2013: US$15.7bn.
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements.
A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities.
Securitisations HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes.
The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors.
HSBC managed funds HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds.
Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls and hence consolidates these funds.
Other HSBC has also entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business which include asset and structured finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity.
In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds.
Unconsolidated structured entities The term unconsolidated structured entities refers to all structured entities that are not controlled by HSBC.
HSBC enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment opportunities.
The table below shows the total assets of unconsolidated structured entities in which HSBC had an interest at the reporting date and its maximum exposure to loss in relation to those interests.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities HSBC Non-HSBC managed managed Securitisations funds funds Other Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2014 Total assets of the entities 11.0 308.5 2,899.9 32.8 3,252.2 HSBCs interest assets Trading assets 0.1 0.1 4.6 4.8 Financial assets designated at fair value 5.2 2.3 7.5 Derivatives 1.3 1.3 Loans and advances to banks 0.1 0.1 Loans and advances to customers 0.8 1.5 2.3 Financial investments 2.5 5.9 0.1 8.5 Other assets 0.1 0.1 Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.8 7.8 8.3 7.7 24.6 HSBCs interest liabilities Other liabilities 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.1 0.1 HSBCs maximum exposure 0.8 7.8 8.3 11.1 28.0 1 Total income from HSBC interests 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.8 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 444 HSBC Non-HSBC managed managed Securitisations funds funds Other Total US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn At 31 December 2013 Total assets of the entities 9.6 290.3 2,843.3 26.7 3,169.9 HSBCs interest assets Trading assets 0.1 0.2 3.8 4.1 Financial assets designated at fair value 5.1 1.4 6.5 Derivatives 1.2 1.2 Loans and advances to customers 0.9 1.5 2.4 Financial investments 2.3 5.4 0.1 7.8 Other assets 0.1 0.1 Total assets in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.9 7.6 7.0 6.6 22.1 HSBCs interest liabilities Trading liabilities 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities in relation to HSBCs interests in the unconsolidated structured entities 0.1 0.1 HSBCs maximum exposure 1.0 7.6 7.0 10.6 26.2 1 Total income from HSBC interests 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.7 1 Income includes recurring and non-recurring fees, interest, dividends, gains or losses on the re-measurement or derecognition of interests in structured entities, any mark-to-market gains losses on a net basis and gains or losses from the transfer of assets and liabilities to the structured entity.
The maximum exposure to loss from HSBCs interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss that HSBC could incur as a result of HSBCs involvement with unconsolidated structured entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
For commitments and guarantees, and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future losses.
For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements entered into to mitigate HSBCs exposure to loss.
Securitisations HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities.
In addition, HSBC has investments in asset-backed securities issued by third party structured entities as set out on page 162.
HSBC managed funds HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment opportunities.
Further information on Funds under management is provided on page 106.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management.
HSBC may also retain units in these funds.
Non-HSBC managed funds HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate both business and customer needs.
In addition, HSBC enters into derivative contracts to facilitate risk management solutions for non-HSBC managed funds.
At 31 December 2014, the fair value of HSBCs derivative exposures to non-HSBC managed funds was US$6.5bn.
Note 16 sets out information in respect of derivatives entered into by HSBC.
Other HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities Accounting policy HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or in bringing together the relevant counterparties so that the transaction, which is the purpose of the entity, could occur.
HSBC is generally not considered a sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative in nature.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 445 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored entities during 2014 and 2013 was not significant.
40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations.
Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material.
The recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 29.
While the outcome of legal proceedings and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these matters as at 31 December 2014 see Note 29.
Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified.
Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability.
It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Securities litigation As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 states and the District of Columbia relating to real estate lending practices, Household International and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit, Jaffe v. Household International, Inc. et al.
filed in August 2002 in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois the Illinois District Court.
The complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act and alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household Internationals Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which ultimately led to the 2002 state settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the restatement.
Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between July 1999 and October 2002.
A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs.
Various legal challenges to the verdict were raised in post-trial briefing.
In December 2011, following the submission of claim forms by class members, the court-appointed claims administrator to the Illinois District Court reported that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate amount of these claims was approximately US$2.2bn.
The defendants filed legal challenges regarding the presumption of reliance as to the class and compliance with the claim form requirements, which the Illinois District Court, in September 2012, rejected for the most part.
The Illinois District Court directed further proceedings before a courtappointed Special Master to address certain claims submission issues.
In October 2013, the Illinois District Court denied the defendants additional post-trial motions for judgement as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial, and granted plaintiffs motions for a partial final judgement and awarded prejudgement interest at the prime rate, compounded annually.
Subsequently, in October 2013, the Illinois District Court entered a partial final judgement against the defendants in the amount of approximately US$2.5bn including prejudgement interest.
In addition to the partial judgement that has been entered, there also remain approximately US$625m in claims, prior to imposition of pre-judgement interest, that still are subject to objections that have not yet been ruled upon by the Illinois District Court.
The defendants filed a Notice of Appeal of the partial final judgement, and oral argument was heard by the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit the Court of Appeals in May 2014.
We await a decision from the Court of Appeals.
The defendants have also filed a supersedeas bond in the approximate amount of the partial final judgement US$2.5bn in order to stay execution on the judgement pending appeal.
Despite the jury verdict, the various rulings of the Illinois District Court, and the partial final judgement, we continue to believe that we have meritorious grounds for relief on appeal.
The timing and outcome of the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain.
Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible outcomes.
If the Court of Appeals rejects or only partially accepts our arguments, the amount of damages, based upon that partial final judgement, and other pending claims and the application of pre-judgement interest on those pending claims, may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an amount up to or exceeding US$3.6bn.
Once a judgement is entered such as the approximately US$2.5bn partial final judgement entered in October 2013, postjudgement interest accrues on the judgement at a rate equal to the weekly average of the one-year constant maturity treasury yield as published by the Federal Reserve System.
A provision has been made based on managements best estimate of probable outflows.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 446 Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Bernard L. Madoff Madoff was arrested in December 2008, and ultimately pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme.
He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers money in securities, he in fact never invested in securities and used other customers money to fulfil requests to return investments.
His firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, is being liquidated by a trustee the Trustee.
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on information provided by Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff.
Based on information available to HSBC, we have estimated that the funds actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn.
Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities fraud.
US UK Litigation: The Trustee has brought suits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court.
The Trustees US actions included common law claims, alleging that HSBC aided and abetted Madoffs fraud and breach of fiduciary duty.
Those claims were dismissed on grounds of lack of standing.
The Trustees remaining US claims seek recovery of prepetition transfers pursuant to US bankruptcy law.
The amount of these remaining claims has not been pleaded or determined as against HSBC.
Alpha Prime Fund Ltd Alpha Prime and Senator Fund SPC, co-defendants in the Trustees US actions, have brought cross-claims against HSBC.
These funds have also sued HSBC in Luxembourg discussed below.
The Trustees English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers from Madoff Securities to or through HSBC.
HSBC has not yet been served with the Trustees English action.
The Trustees deadline for serving the claim has been extended through the third quarter of 2015.
Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited collectively, Fairfield, funds whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the US and the British Virgin Islands the BVI against fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for HSBC clients, seeking restitution of payments made in connection with share redemptions.
The US actions brought by Fairfield are stayed pending the outcome of the Fairfield cases in the BVI discussed below.
In September 2013, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of purported class action claims against HSBC and others brought by investors in three Madoff-invested funds on grounds of forum non conveniens.
The plaintiffs petitions for certiorari to the US Supreme Court were filed in December 2014.
The Supreme Courts decision on whether to grant certiorari review is expected in the first half of 2015.
In December 2014, three new Madoff-related actions were filed.
The first is a purported class action brought by direct investors in Madoff Securities who were holding their investments as of December 2008, asserting various common law claims and seeking to recover damages lost to Madoff Securities fraud on account of HSBCs purported knowledge and alleged furtherance of the fraud.
The other two actions were filed by SPV Optimal SUS Ltd SPV Optimal, the purported assignee of the Madoff Securities-invested company, Optimal Strategic US Equity Ltd. One of these actions was filed in New York state court and the other in US federal district court.
In January 2015, SPV Optimal dismissed its federal lawsuit against HSBC.
The state court action against HSBC remains pending.
BVI Litigation: Beginning in October 2009, the Fairfield funds, whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the BVI against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBCs private banking business and other clients who invested in the Fairfield funds.
The Fairfield funds are seeking restitution of redemption payments made by the funds to defendants on the grounds that they were mistakenly based on inflated net asset values.
In April 2014, the UK Privy Council issued a ruling on two preliminary issues in favour of other defendants in the BVI actions, and issued its order in October 2014.
There is also a pending motion brought by other defendants before the BVI court challenging the Fairfield liquidators authorisation to pursue its claims in the US.
The BVI court has adjourned the hearing on that pending motion until March 2015.
Bermuda Litigation: In January 2009, Kingate Global Fund Limited and Kingate Euro Fund Limited collectively, Kingate, funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced an action in Bermuda against HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited for recovery of funds held in Kingates accounts, fees and dividends.
This action is currently pending, but is not expected to move forward until there is a resolution as to the Trustees separate US actions against Kingate and HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited.
Thema Fund Limited Thema and Hermes International Fund Limited Hermes, funds invested with Madoff Securities, each also brought three actions in Bermuda in 2009.
The first set of actions were brought against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited and seek recovery of funds in frozen accounts held at HSBC.
The second set of actions asserts liability against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Bermuda Limited in relation to claims for mistake, recovery of fees and damages for breach of contract.
The third set of actions seeks return of fees from HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited and HSBC HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 447 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters Securities Services Bermuda.
There has been little progress in these actions for several years, although in January 2015, Thema and Hermes served notice of intent to proceed in respect of the second set of actions referred to above.
Cayman Islands Litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund, a Cayman Islands-based fund invested in Madoff Securities, brought an action against the fund administrator, Bank of Bermuda Cayman, and the fund custodian, HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg HSSL, alleging breaches of contract.
Primeo Fund claims damages from defendants to compensate it for alleged losses, including loss of profit and any liability to the Trustee.
Trial has been postponed to January 2016.
Luxembourg Litigation: In April 2009, Herald Fund SPC Herald in official liquidation since July 2013 commenced action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of all cash and securities Herald purportedly lost because of Madoff Securities fraud, or in the alternative, money damages in the same amount.
In March 2013, the Luxembourg District Court dismissed Heralds restitution claim for the return of the securities.
Heralds restitution claim for return of the cash and claim for money damages were reserved.
Herald appealed this judgement in May 2013.
Judgement on the issue of a judicial bond is expected to be rendered in May 2015.
Proceedings on the reserved restitution claim were suspended pending resolution of the appeal.
In October 2009, Alpha Prime sued HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, alleging breach of contract and negligence in the appointment of Madoff Securities as a sub-custodian of Alpha Primes assets.
Alpha Prime was ordered to provide a judicial bond.
Alpha Prime requested a stay of these proceedings pending its negotiations with the Trustee in the US proceedings.
The matter has been temporarily suspended.
In March 2010, Herald Lux SICAV Herald Lux in official liquidation since April 2009 brought an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages in the alternative.
Herald Lux has also requested the restitution of fees paid to HSSL as custodian and service agent of the fund.
The last preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place in March 2015.
In December 2014, Senator Fund SPC commenced an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking the restitution of securities held as of the latest net asset value statement from November 2008, or in the alternative, money damages.
The first preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place in February 2015.
HSSL has been sued in various actions by shareholders in the Primeo Select Fund, Herald, Herald Lux, and Hermes funds.
These actions are in different stages, most of which have been dismissed, suspended or postponed.
Ireland Litigation: In November 2013, Defender Limited, a fund invested with Madoff securities, commenced an action against HSBC Institutional Trust Services Ireland Limited HTIE, alleging breach of the custodian agreement and claiming damages and indemnification for claims against Defender Limited for fund losses.
The action also includes four non-HSBC parties, who served as directors and investment managers to Defender Limited.
In July 2013 and December 2013, settlements were reached in respect of claims filed against HTIE in the Irish High Court by Thema International Fund plc Thema International and Alternative Advantage Plc AA, respectively.
Five actions by individual Thema International shareholders remain pending.
In December 2014, a new proceeding against HTIE and HSBC Securities Services Ireland Limited was brought by SPV Optimal, alleging breach of the custodian agreement and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses.
There are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various Madoff-related proceedings described above, including but not limited to the multiple jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in such proceedings.
For these reasons, amongst others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all claims in the various Madoff-related proceedings, but they could be significant.
US mortgage-related investigations In April 2011, following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices, HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency the OCC.
HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH also entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board the FRB together with the OCC order, the Servicing Consent Orders.
The Servicing Consent Orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in the joint examination and described in the consent orders.
HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work with the OCC and the FRB to align their processes with the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required.
Pursuant to the Servicing Consent Orders, an independent consultant was retained to conduct an independent review of foreclosures pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 the Independent Foreclosure Review to determine if any borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process.
In February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the OCC, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the FRB together, the IFR Settlement Agreements, pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review was replaced by a broader framework under which HSBC and 12 other participating servicers agreed to provide, in the aggregate, over HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 448 US$9.3bn in cash payments and other assistance to help eligible borrowers.
Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreements, HNAH made a cash payment of US$96m into a fund used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, is providing other assistance e. g. loan modifications to help eligible borrowers.
Borrowers who receive compensation will not be required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be precluded from pursuing litigation concerning foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices.
For participating servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance, fulfilment of the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreements will satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders, including the wind-down of the Independent Foreclosure Review.
The Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice the DoJ or state Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders.
Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreement with the OCC, however, the OCC has agreed that it will not assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with respect to past mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related practices addressed in the Servicing Consent Orders, provided the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreements are fulfilled.
The OCCs agreement not to assess civil money penalties is further conditioned on HNAH making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans.
The FRB has agreed that any assessment of civil money penalties by the FRB will reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans.
The IFR Settlement Agreements do not preclude private litigation concerning these practices.
Separate from the Servicing Consent Orders and the settlements related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, in February 2012, five of the largest US mortgage servicers not including any HSBC companies reached a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and state Attorneys General of 49 states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices.
Following the February 2012 settlement, these government agencies initiated discussions with other mortgage industry servicers, including HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential resolution.
Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, bank regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors.
These practices have in the past resulted in private litigation, and such a settlement would not preclude further private litigation concerning these practices.
US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation HSBC Bank USA has been involved as a sponsor seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten by HSBC Securities USA Inc. HSI.
From 2005 to 2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold US$24bn of such loans to HSI which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties.
The outstanding principal balance on these loans was approximately US$5.7bn as at 31 December 2014.
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the US mortgage market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, and at particular participants within these groups.
As the industrys residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitisation trusts.
As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants rights.
While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and any related liabilities are properly those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of HSBC, as trustee.
Between June and December 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in state and federal court in New York against HSBC Bank USA as trustee of over 250 mortgage securitisation trusts.
These lawsuits are brought derivatively on behalf of the trusts by a class of investors including, amongst others, BlackRock and PIMCO funds.
Similar lawsuits were filed simultaneously against other non-HSBC financial institutions that served as mortgage securitisation pool trustees.
The complaints against HSBC Bank USA allege that the trusts have sustained losses in collateral value of over US$34bn.
The lawsuits seek unspecified damages resulting from alleged breaches of the US Trust Indenture Act, breach of fiduciary duties, negligence, breach of contract and breach of the common law duty of trust.
HSBC filed a motion to dismiss three of these lawsuits in January 2015.
Various HSBC companies have also been named as defendants in a number of actions in connection with residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS offerings, which generally allege that the offering documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans.
In September 2011, an action was filed by the Federal Housing HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 449 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters Finance Agency FHFA, acting in its capacity as conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York the New York District Court against HSBC Bank USA, HNAH, HSI and HSI Asset Securitization HASCO, as well as five former and current officers and directors of HASCO.
FHFA sought money damages or rescission of mortgage-backed securities purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were either underwritten or sponsored by HSBC companies.
As announced in September 2014, this matter was resolved between the parties by final settlement requiring HSBC to pay a total of US$550m to FHFA.
HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Finance have been named as defendants in various mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of securitisation trusts.
In the aggregate, these actions seek to have the HSBC defendants repurchase mortgage loans, or pay compensatory damages in lieu of repurchase totalling at least US$1bn.
Motions to dismiss have been filed and are fully briefed and pending in two of these actions.
Since 2010, various HSBC entities have received subpoenas and requests for information from US authorities seeking the production of documents and information regarding HSBCs involvement, and the involvement of its affiliates, in particular private-label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer.
HSBC continues to cooperate with these US authorities.
In November 2014, HNAH, on behalf of itself and various subsidiaries including, but not limited to, HSBC Bank USA, HASCO, HSI, HSI Asset Loan Obligation, HSBC Mortgage Corporation USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC, received a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office for the District of Colorado, pursuant to the Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, concerning the origination, financing, purchase, securitisation and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages.
This matter is at an early stage and HSBC is cooperating fully.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC.
HSBC expects the focus on mortgage securitisations to continue.
As a result, HSBC companies may be subject to additional claims, litigation and governmental or regulatory scrutiny relating to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either as a member of a group or individually.
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related matters In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the OCC, and HNAH entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the FRB the Orders.
These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance risk management programme across HSBCs US businesses, including risk management related to US Bank Secrecy Act the BSA and anti-money laundering AML compliance.
Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the Orders.
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings plc HSBC Holdings, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements with US and UK government agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with the BSA, AML and sanctions laws.
Among those agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DoJ, the US Attorneys Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the US Attorneys Office for the Northern District of West Virginia the US DPA : HSBC Holdings entered into a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney the DANY DPA : and HSBC Holdings consented to a cease-and-desist order and HSBC Holdings and HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order with the FRB.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into a civil money penalty order with FinCEN and a separate civil money penalty order with the OCC.
HSBC Holdings also entered into an agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to OFAC sanctions and an undertaking with the UK Financial Conduct Authority the FCA to comply with certain forwardlooking AML and sanctions-related obligations.
Under these agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1.9bn to US authorities and are continuing to comply with ongoing obligations.
In July 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York approved the US DPA and retained authority to oversee implementation of that agreement.
Under the agreements with the DoJ, FCA, and FRB, an independent monitor who is, for FCA purposes, a skilled person under Section 166 of the Financial Services and Markets Act is evaluating and regularly assessing the effectiveness of HSBCs AML and sanctions compliance function and HSBCs progress in implementing its remedial obligations under the agreements.
HSBC Holdings has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the two-year period of that agreement in December 2014.
If HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA fulfil all of the requirements imposed by the US DPA, the DoJ charges against those entities will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period of that agreement.
The DoJ may prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA in relation to any matters that are the subject of the US DPA if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA breaches the terms of the US DPA.
HSBC Bank USA also entered into a separate consent order with the OCC, requiring it to correct the circumstances and conditions as noted in the OCCs then most recent report of examination, and imposing certain restrictions on HSBC Bank USA directly or indirectly acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 450 new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC.
HSBC Bank USA also entered into a separate consent order with the OCC requiring it to adopt an enterprise-wide compliance programme.
These settlements with US and UK authorities have led to private litigation, and do not preclude further private litigation related to HSBCs compliance with applicable BSA, AML and sanctions laws or other regulatory or law enforcement actions for BSA, AML, sanctions or other matters not covered by the various agreements.
In May 2014, a shareholder derivative action was filed by a shareholder of HSBC Holdings purportedly on behalf of HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank USA, HNAH and HSBC USA Inc. the Nominal Corporate Defendants in New York State Supreme Court against certain current and former directors and officers of those HSBC companies the Individual Defendants.
The complaint alleges that the Individual Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Nominal Corporate Defendants and caused a waste of corporate assets by allegedly permitting and or causing the conduct underlying the US DPA.
In October 2014, the Nominal Corporate Defendants moved to dismiss the action, and the Individual Defendants who had been served also responded to the complaint.
Plaintiff filed an amended complaint in February 2015.
In July 2014, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against HSBC Holdings and a former employee purportedly on behalf of a class of persons who purchased HSBC common shares and ADSs between July 2006 and July 2012.
The complaint, which seeks monetary damages of up to CA$20bn, alleges that the defendants made statutory and common law misrepresentations in documents released by HSBC Holdings and its wholly owned subsidiary, HSBC Bank Canada, relating to HSBCs compliance with BSA, AML, sanctions and other laws.
In November 2014, a complaint was filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York on behalf of representatives of US persons killed or injured in Iraq between April 2004 and November 2011.
The complaint was filed against HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank Middle East, as well as other non-HSBC banks and the Islamic Republic of Iran together, the Defendants.
The plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to violate the US Anti-Terrorism Act, by altering or falsifying payment messages involving Iran, Iranian parties and Iranian banks for transactions processed through the US.
Defendants motion to dismiss is due to be filed in March 2015.
These private lawsuits are at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC.
Tax and broker-dealer investigations HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether certain HSBC companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting obligations.
In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA HSBC Swiss Private Bank, with due regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ.
In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Swiss Private Bank that it was not eligible for the Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss Banks since a formal investigation had previously been authorised.
The DoJ has requested additional information from HSBC Swiss Private Bank and other Swiss banks regarding the transfer of assets to and from US person-related accounts and employees who serviced those accounts.
HSBC Swiss Private Bank is preparing this data, in a manner consistent with Swiss law.
Other HSBC companies have received subpoenas and requests for information from US and other authorities, including with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC company in India.
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank reached a final settlement with the SEC relating to cross-border brokerage and advisory services provided by HSBC Swiss Private Bank and its predecessor entities to US resident clients between 2003 and 2011.
In addition, various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in Belgium, France, Argentina, Switzerland and India, are conducting investigations and reviews of HSBC Swiss Private Bank in connection with allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking solicitation.
HSBC Swiss Private Bank has been placed under formal criminal examination by magistrates in both Belgium and France.
In February 2015, HSBC was informed that the French magistrates are of the view that they have completed their investigation with respect to HSBC Swiss Private Bank and have referred the matter to the public prosecutor for a recommendation on any potential charges to be brought, whilst reserving the right to continue investigating other conduct at HSBC.
In addition, in November 2014, the Argentine tax authority filed a complaint alleging an unlawful association between HSBC Swiss Private Bank, HSBC Bank Argentina, HSBC Bank USA and certain current and former HSBC officers, which allegedly enabled HSBC customers to evade Argentine tax obligations.
In February 2015, a public prosecutor in Switzerland commenced an investigation of HSBC Swiss Private Bank, and the Indian tax authority issued a summons and request for information to an HSBC company in India.
With respect to each of these ongoing matters, HSBC is cooperating with the relevant authorities.
Based on the facts currently known, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of such resolutions, including the amounts of fines, penalties and or forfeitures imposed on HSBC, which could be significant.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 451 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters In light of the recent media attention regarding these matters, it is possible that other tax administration, regulatory or law enforcement authorities will also initiate or enlarge similar investigations or regulatory proceedings.
London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the EU, Switzerland and elsewhere, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates Libor, European interbank offered rates Euribor and other benchmark interest rates.
As certain HSBC companies are members of such panels, HSBC has been the subject of regulatory demands for information and is cooperating with those investigations and reviews.
In December 2013, the European Commission the Commission announced that it had imposed fines on eight financial institutions under its cartel settlement procedure for their participation in illegal activity related to euro interest rate derivatives and or yen interest rate derivatives.
Although HSBC was not one of the financial institutions fined, the Commission announced that it had opened proceedings against HSBC in connection with its Euribor-related investigation of euro interest rate derivatives only.
This investigation will continue under the standard Commission cartel procedure.
In May 2014, HSBC received a Statement of Objections from the Commission, alleging anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives.
The Statement of Objections sets out the Commissions preliminary views and does not prejudge the final outcome of its investigation.
HSBC responded partially to the Commissions Statement of Objections in November 2014, and will have the opportunity to complete its response on a date to be decided by the Commission, once various procedural issues are resolved.
Based on the facts currently known, with respect to each of these ongoing investigations, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amounts of fines and or penalties, which could be significant.
In addition, HSBC and other US dollar Libor panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor.
The complaints assert claims under various US laws, including US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act CEA, and state law.
The lawsuits include individual and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the New York District Court.
In March 2013, the New York District Court overseeing the consolidated proceedings related to US dollar Libor issued a decision in the six oldest actions, dismissing the plaintiffs federal and state antitrust claims, racketeering claims, and unjust enrichment claims in their entirety, but allowing certain of their CEA claims that were not barred by the applicable statute of limitations to proceed.
Some of those plaintiffs appealed the New York District Courts decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which later dismissed those appeals.
In January 2015, the US Supreme Court reversed the Court of Appeals decision and remanded the case to the Court of Appeals for consideration of the merits of the plaintiffs appeal.
Other plaintiffs sought to file amended complaints in the New York District Court to assert additional allegations.
In June 2014, the New York District Court issued a decision that, amongst other things, denied the plaintiffs request for leave to amend their complaints to assert additional theories of Libor manipulation against HSBC and certain non-HSBC banks, but granted leave to assert such manipulation claims against two other banks: and granted defendants motion to dismiss certain additional claims under the CEA as barred by the applicable statute of limitations.
Proceedings with respect to all other actions in the consolidated proceedings were stayed pending this decision.
The stay was lifted in September 2014.
Amended complaints were filed in previously stayed non-class actions in October 2014: and amended complaints were filed in several of the previously stayed class actions in November 2014.
Motions to dismiss were filed in November 2014 and January 2015, respectively, and remain pending.
Separately, HSBC and other panel banks have also been named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euroyen futures and options contracts related to the euroyen Tokyo interbank offered rate Tibor.
The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to euroyen Tibor, although HSBC is not a member of the Japanese Bankers Associations euroyen Tibor panel, as well as Japanese yen Libor, in violation of US antitrust laws, the CEA, and state law.
In March 2014, the New York District Court issued an opinion dismissing the plaintiffs claims under US antitrust law and state law, but sustaining their claims under the CEA.
In June 2014, the plaintiffs moved for leave to file a third amended complaint.
HSBC has opposed that motion, which remains pending.
In November 2013, HSBC and other panel banks were also named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euro futures contracts and other financial instruments related to Euribor.
The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to Euribor in violation of US antitrust laws, the CEA and state law.
The plaintiffs filed a second and later third amended complaint in May 2014 and October 2014, respectively.
HSBC intends to respond to the third amended complaint once a court-ordered stay expires, currently set for May 2015.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 452 In September and October 2014, HSBC Bank plc and other panel banks were named as defendants in a number of putative class actions that were filed and consolidated in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in interest rate derivative transactions or purchased or sold financial instruments that were either tied to USD ISDAfix rates or were executed shortly before, during, or after the time of the daily ISDAfix setting window.
The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to these activities in violation of US antitrust laws, the CEA and state law.
In October 2014, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint.
A motion to dismiss that complaint was filed in December 2014 and remains pending.
In February 2015, plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended complaint replacing HSBC Bank plc with HSBC Bank USA.
Foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the EU and elsewhere, are conducting investigations and reviews into a number of firms, including HSBC, related to trading on the foreign exchange markets.
In November 2014, HSBC Bank plc entered into regulatory settlements with the FCA and the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC in connection with their respective investigations of HSBCs trading and other conduct involving foreign exchange benchmark rates.
Under the terms of those settlements, HSBC Bank plc agreed to pay a financial penalty of 216m US$336m to the FCA and a civil monetary penalty of US$275m to the CFTC, and to undertake various remedial actions.
In December 2014, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority HKMA announced the completion of its investigation into the foreign exchange trading operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited HBAP.
The investigation found no evidence of market manipulation by HBAP and no monetary penalty was imposed.
HBAP was required to implement various remedial actions.
The remaining investigations and reviews in the UK, the US and elsewhere are ongoing.
Based on the facts currently known there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of such resolutions, including the amounts of fines and or penalties, which could be significant.
As at 31 December 2014, HSBC has recognised a provision in the amount of US$550m in respect of these matters.
In addition, in late 2013 and early 2014, HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank plc, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA were named as defendants, amongst other banks, in various putative class actions filed in the New York District Court.
In March 2014, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging, amongst other things, that defendants conspired to manipulate the WM Reuters foreign exchange benchmark rates by sharing customers confidential order flow information, thereby injuring plaintiffs and others by forcing them to pay artificial and non-competitive prices for products based on these foreign currency rates the Consolidated Action.
Separate putative class actions were also brought on behalf of non-US plaintiffs the Foreign Actions.
Defendants moved to dismiss all actions.
In January 2015, the court denied defendants motion to dismiss as to the Consolidated Action, but granted defendants motion to dismiss as to the Foreign Actions.
Precious metals fix-related litigation and investigations Since March 2014, numerous putative class actions have been filed in the US District Courts for the Southern District of New York, the District of New Jersey and the Northern District of California naming HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank plc, HSI and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2004 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives during the afternoon London gold fix in order to reap profits on proprietary trades.
These actions have been assigned to and consolidated in the New York District Court.
An amended consolidated class action complaint was filed in December 2014, and HSBCs response was filed in February 2015.
Since July 2014, putative class actions were filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Eastern District of New York naming HSBC Holdings, HNAH, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC USA Inc. and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Ltd as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2007 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of physical silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the CEA.
An amended consolidated class action complaint was filed in January 2015, and HSBCs response is due in March 2015.
Between late 2014 and early 2015, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court naming HSBC Bank USA and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited as defendants.
The complaints allege that, from January 2007 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of physical Platinum Group Metals PGM and PGM-based financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the CEA.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 453 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 41 Related party transactions In November 2014, the DoJ issued a document request to HSBC Holdings, seeking the voluntary production of certain documents relating to a criminal antitrust investigation that the DoJ is conducting in relation to precious metals.
In January 2015, the CFTC issued a subpoena to HSBC Bank USA, seeking the production of certain documents related to HSBC Bank USAs precious metals trading operations.
HSBC is cooperating with the US authorities in their respective investigations.
These matters are at an early stage.
Credit default swap regulatory investigation and litigation In July 2013, HSBC received a Statement of Objections from the Commission relating to its ongoing investigation of alleged anti-competitive activity by a number of market participants in the credit derivatives market between 2006 and 2009.
HSBC has submitted a response and attended an oral hearing in May 2014.
Following the oral hearing, the Commission decided to conduct a further investigation phase before deciding whether or how to proceed with the case.
HSBC is cooperating with this further investigation.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC.
In addition, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc have been named as defendants, amongst others, in numerous putative class actions filed in the New York District Court and the Illinois District Court.
These class actions allege that the defendants, which include ISDA, Markit and several other financial institutions, conspired to restrain trade in violation of US antitrust laws by, amongst other things, restricting access to credit default swap pricing exchanges and blocking new entrants into the exchange market, with the purpose and effect of artificially inflating the bid ask spread paid to buy and sell credit default swaps in the US.
The plaintiffs in these suits purport to represent a class of all persons who purchased credit default swaps from or sold credit default swaps to defendants primarily in the US.
In October 2013, these cases were consolidated in the New York District Court.
An amended consolidated complaint was filed in January 2014, naming HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank plc as defendants, amongst other non-HSBC defendants.
Following the filing of defendants initial motions to dismiss in March 2014, plaintiffs filed a second amended consolidated complaint, which defendants also moved to dismiss.
In September 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss.
Economic plans: HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
In the mid-1980s and early 1990s, certain economic plans were introduced by the government of Brazil to reduce escalating inflation.
The implementation of these plans adversely impacted savings account holders, thousands of which consequently commenced legal proceedings against financial institutions in Brazil, including HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. HSBC Brazil, alleging, amongst other things, that savings account balances were adjusted by a different price index than that contractually agreed, which caused them a loss of income.
Certain of these cases have reached the Brazilian Supreme Court the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court has suspended all cases pending before lower courts until it delivers a final judgement on the constitutionality of the changes resulting from the economic plans.
It is anticipated that the outcome of the Supreme Courts final judgement will set a precedent for all cases pending before the lower courts.
Separately, the Brazilian Superior Civil Court the Superior Civil Court is considering matters relating to, amongst other things, contractual and punitive interest rates to be applied to calculate any loss of income.
There is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the proceedings in the Supreme Court and Superior Civil Court will be resolved and the timing of such resolutions, including the amount of losses that HSBC Brazil may be liable to pay in the event of an unfavourable judgement.
Such losses may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an amount up to US$800m, although the upper end of this range is considered unlikely.
Regulatory Review of Consumer Enhancement Services Products HSBC Finance, through its legacy Cards and Retail Services business, offered or participated in the marketing, distribution, or servicing of products, such as identity theft protection and credit monitoring products, that were ancillary to the provision of credit to the consumer.
HSBC Finance ceased offering these products by May 2012.
The offering and administration of these and other enhancement services products, such as debt protection products, has been the subject of enforcement actions against other institutions by regulators, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the OCC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Such enforcement actions have resulted in orders to pay restitution to customers and the assessment of penalties in substantial amounts.
We have made restitution to certain customers in connection with certain enhancement services products, and we continue to cooperate with our regulators in connection with their on-going review.
In light of the actions that regulators have taken in relation to other non-HSBC credit card issuers regarding their enhancement services products, one or more regulators may order us to pay additional restitution to customers and or impose civil money penalties or other relief arising from the prior offering and administration of such enhancement services products by HSBC Finance.
There is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which this HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 454 matter will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amount of any additional remediation which may lie in a range from zero to an amount up to US$500m.
41 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel HSBC 2014 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 41 38 37 Post-employment benefits 1 2 1 Other long-term employee benefits 7 10 10 Share-based payments 54 35 43 Year ended 31 December 103 85 91 Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties Particulars of advances loans and quasi-loans, credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings during 2014 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown below: 2014 2013 US$m US$m Advances and credits at 31 December 5 7 Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below.
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding balances during the year.
2014 2013 Highest amounts Highest amounts Balance at outstanding Balance at outstanding 31 December during year 31 December during year US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Key Management Personnel Advances and credits 194 227 146 171 Guarantees 8 1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those rules.
The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 2014 2013 000s 000s Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 28 225 Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 17,533 14,704 Number of HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 held beneficially and non-beneficially 5 5 At 31 December 17,566 14,934 Transactions with other related parties of HSBC Associates and joint ventures The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts.
Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 455 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Notes on the Financial Statements continued 41 Related party transactions 42 Events after the balance sheet date are given in Note 20.
Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were as follows: 2014 2013 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at 1 1 1 1 during the year 31 December during the year 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts due from joint ventures: subordinated 1 unsubordinated 205 205 300 300 Amounts due from associates: subordinated 58 unsubordinated 5,451 4,273 4,884 4,084 At 31 December 5,714 4,478 5,185 4,384 Amounts due to joint ventures 7 7 Amounts due to associates 650 162 1,178 290 At 31 December 650 162 1,185 297 Commitments 17 70 17 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Post-employment benefit plans At 31 December 2014, US$4.5bn 2013: US$5.2bn of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies.
Fees of US$12m 2013: US$23m were earned by HSBC companies for these management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans.
HSBCs post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits of US$223m 2013: US$620m with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted to US$6m 2013: US$1m.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities.
At 31 December 2014, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$24bn 2013: US$38bn, the swaps had a positive fair value of US$0.9bn 2013: positive fair value of US$2.8bn to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$2.0bn 2013: US$3.8bn to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC earned US$5m of interest 2013: US$33m.
All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid offer spreads.
Over the year, the Scheme reduced its level of swap transactions with HSBC.
The International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets.
At 31 December 2014, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.9bn 2013: US$1.8bn and the swaps had a net negative fair value of US$107m to the scheme 2013: US$399m positive.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 456 HSBC Holdings Details of HSBC Holdings principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 22.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries were as follows: 2014 2013 Highest balance Balance at Highest balance Balance at 1 1 1 1 during the year 31 December during the year 31 December US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Cash at bank 436 249 420 407 Derivatives 3,179 2,771 3,768 2,789 Loans and advances 55,026 43,910 53,344 53,344 Financial investments 4,073 4,073 1,220 1,210 Investments in subsidiaries 96,264 96,264 92,695 92,695 Total related party assets at 31 December 158,978 147,267 151,447 150,445 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 12,046 2,892 12,856 11,685 Derivatives 1,169 1,169 1,154 704 Subordinated liabilities: at amortised cost 1,743 1,670 1,716 1,716 designated at fair value 3,186 981 4,350 3,161 Total related party liabilities at 31 December 18,144 6,712 20,076 17,266 Guarantees 53,180 52,023 52,836 52,836 Commitments 1,245 16 1,245 1,245 1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent transactions during the year.
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and were on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company.
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf.
Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 6 to the accounts.
42 Events after the balance sheet date A fourth interim dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share a distribution of approximately US$3,844m was declared by the Directors after 31 December 2014.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2015 and authorised for issue.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 457 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
