Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Responsibility of Directors The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Statement of the Directors in relation to the Annual Report on www.
com in accordance with the UK legislation AnnualReport and financial statements governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
The Board confirms that it considers that this Annual Report, taken as a Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information comparable legislation may be different.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to business model and strategy.
meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
When making this assessment, the Board was supported by a recommendation from the Audit Committee, who oversaw well Directors declaration in relation to relevant established and effective processes in relation to its preparation.
auditinformation Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Directors responsibilities in relation to the auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: financialstatements to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors relevantaudit information of which the Companys auditors in relation to the financial statements of both the Group and the areunaware: and Company.
The reports of the independent auditors for the Group and the Company set out their responsibilities in relation to those he or she has taken all steps that a Director might reasonably be financial statements.
expected to have taken in order to make himself or herself aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for auditors are aware of that information.
each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of Directors responsibility statement the profit or loss of the Group and the Company for the financial year.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge and belief that: In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: applicable accounting standards identified above, give a true and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed the Directors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair andexplained: and review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Company, together with a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
unlessthey consider that to be inappropriate.
The names of the Directors are listed in this Directors Report and their The applicable accounting standards referred to above are: a United details appear on the Board of Directors page.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any as adopted by the European Union andimplemented in the UK for person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that such the Group.
liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and that the on 25 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible Richard Burrows Ben Stevens for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company Chairman Finance Director and the Group and, in that context, having proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view tothe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
115 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
