Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 153 Definitions and glossary In this Annual Report the following words shall have the following meanings: Dodd-Frank Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Basel III a federal statute in the US an international regulatory framework, developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, to strengthen the regulation, supervision and risk dollar or $ management of the banking sector unless otherwise specified all references to dollars or $ symbol are to the currency of the US BSMP the ICAP 2003 and 2013 Bonus Share Matching Plan EBS EBS Group Limited and its subsidiaries CCP central counterparty ECB European Central Bank CDS credit default swaps EMEA Europe, the Middle East and Africa CFETS Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co. Limited EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation CFTC US Commodity Futures Trading Commission EPS earnings per share CGU cash generating units ETR effective tax rate Clearing house a central risk-bearing and administrative facility in certain exchange-based EU markets which acts as the counterparty to both the buyer and the seller European Union of a contract, protecting each party from the risk of the other party Exco defaulting on the trade.
Trades are also processed and settled through Exco plc, which changed its name to Intercapital plc on 26 October 1998 the clearing house.
Exco Intercapital merger CLSAS the acquisition of the Intercapital companies by Exco on 26 October 1998 CLS Aggregation Services LLC, a joint venture between Traiana Inc and Exotix or Exotix business CLS Group Exotix Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries CNH represents the exchange rate of renminbi that trades offshore in Hong FCA Kong Financial Conduct Authority, a successor to the Financial Services Authority FCF Code FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code Free cash flow FCM Companies Act Companies Act 2006 as amended Futures Commission Merchant FICC Company or ICAP ICAP plc formerly Garban-Intercapital plc and Garban plc Fixed Income Clearing Corporation FINRA Compression a multilateral process enabling a group of financial institutions to both Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a US regulator identify multiple offsetting derivative contracts and to cancel them, in First Brokers order to reduce their overall trade count and notional outstanding, thus First Brokers Securities Inc reducing systemic risk and freeing up capital to be deployed elsewhere Fitch COREP Fitch Ratings Limited The European Banking Authoritys common regulatory reporting Fixing framework the process of setting an official price for a financial instrument, CRD on a regular basis, involving market participants and sometimes central Capital Requirements Directive banks or other regulatory bodies Demerger FRC the demerger of Garban from United Business Media plc on Financial Reporting Council 17 November 1998 FTSE 100 Derivatives index comprised of the 100 largest companies listed on the London Stock financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an underlying Exchange in terms of their market capitalisation asset, including interest rates, bonds, currencies, equities and commodities.
Credit derivatives are based on bonds loans and other types of credit.
154 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Other information Definitions and glossary continued FTSE 250 IPGL index comprised of medium-capitalised companies listed on the London IPGL Limited Stock Exchange not included in the FTSE 100 index IRS FTSE All-Share interest rate swap, a financial transaction in which two parties typically the aggregation of the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and FTSE Small Cap Indices exchange payments based on a fixed interest rate for payments based on a floating rate, or alternatively both based on different floating rates.
Swaps FX are typically used by companies to hedge against interest rate exposure or foreign exchange to speculate on future interest rate movements.
Garban ISDA Garban plc International Swaps and Derivatives Association Garban Trust ISDX Garban Employee Share Ownership Trust ICAP Securities & Derivatives Exchange Limited, formerly Plus Stock GDP Exchange plc gross domestic product ISMA GEMG International Securities Market Association Global Executive Management Group Libid GOC London interbank bid rate Global Operating Committee.
This executive committee reviews and Libor makes recommendations to the board and the GEMG in relation to all London interbank offered rate matters affecting the operations of the ICAP Group.
Link GRACC the businesses of The Link Asset and Securities Company Limited, Link Group Risk and Capital Committee.
This executive committee considers Securities Hong Kong Limited and LinkBrokers Derivatives LLC all aspects of the control environment, risk profile and capital structure of the Group.
Liquidity liquid markets are those with enough buyers and sellers for financial Group instruments to be traded quickly in significant volumes without sudden the Company and its subsidiary undertakings major shifts in price Group CEO LTIP Group Chief Executive Officer long term incentive plan HMRC Margin call Her Majestys Revenue & Customs brokers and clearing houses require their clients to deposit a margin IASB with them.
This is generally in the form of assets usually cash or securities International Accounting Standards Body as a safeguard against the risk of defaulting on trades.
A margin call is a requirement for a client to increase the amount of margin held on its ICAAP account if the value of securities purchased on margin falls below a internal capital adequacy assessment process certain level.
ICAP shares Mark-to-market ICAP plc ordinary shares of 10p each revaluation of a market position or portfolio based on the current market ICAP Shipping price rather than the original purchase price ICAP Shipping Limited formerly ICAP Hyde & Company Limited Merger and related companies the merger of Garban and Intercapital on 9 September 1999 ICAP Trust MiFID ICAP Employee Share Trust Markets in Financial Instrument Directive, this proposes the concept of an IFRS organised trading facility.
The European Commission has proposed in its International Financial Reporting Standards revision to MiFID a new type of trading venue known as the organised trading facility.
These are organised platforms which are currently not IIS regulated as a Regulated Market or multilateral trading facility.
ICAP Information Services MMFs INFBV Money market funds INCAP Finance BV Moodys Intercapital Moodys Investors Services Intercapital Limited formerly Intercapital plc Intercapital companies those companies acquired from IPGL at the time of their merger with Exco in October 1998 Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 155 Multilateral trading facility MTF SEF an electronic system used to facilitate trading in financial instruments swap execution facility, a type of organised trading venue in the US between multiple parties, rather than solely on a one buyer one seller basis Share split NBI at an extraordinary general meeting held on 4 February 2004 shareholders new business initiative approved a five for one share subdivision which divided the Groups ordinary shares of 50p each into five ordinary shares of 10p each.
NDF The subdivision was effective from 9 February 2004. non-deliverable forwards Spot FX Non-bank a currency trade which is settled immediately usually within two encompassing the professional trading community including hedge funds, working days trading houses and corporates Straight through processing NSCC the ability for trades to be processed electronically from the point of National Securities Clearing Corporation execution through to settlement on clients administration systems with Off-the-run securities minimal or no human intervention instruments that were issued earlier in a sequence of periodically issued Tibor securities.
They generally trade at a discount to on-the-run securities.
Tokyo interbank offered rate On-the-run securities Traiana the most recently issued instruments in a sequence of periodically issued Traiana Inc and subsidiaries securities.
They are generally more liquid than older securities in the sequence and trade at a premium.
Treasury Shares shares as defined by the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury OTC Shares Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 over-the-counter markets in which instruments are traded directly between participants by telephone and or electronically rather than TriOptima via an exchange TriOptima AB and its subsidiaries OTF organised trading facility, a category of trading revenue proposed by MiFID Pillar 1 sets out the rules by which regulatory capital can be calculated for the three major components of risk that a bank faces: credit risk, operational risk and market risk Pillar 2 In this document, according to context, the expressions ICAP and the a supervisory review process Group are also used to mean the ICAP plc Group as a whole, or ICAP plc and or its relevant subsidiaries.
The business of ICAP plc is solely that of a RCF revolving credit facility holding company.
ICAP plc itself conducts no broking or other activities.
ReMatch Forward-looking statements ReMatch Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with Reset respect to the expectations, plans and aims of the Group relating to future Reset Holdings Private Limited and its subsidiaries performance, financial position and results.
All forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and RIE circumstances that are beyond the Groups control and or that may cause Recognised Investment Exchange results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The RPI forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at retail price index the date of preparation of this Annual Report.
However, we can give no assurance that expectations will not differ materially from actual outcomes SEC and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardSecurities and Exchange Commission, a US regulator looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
156 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based.
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This report is printed on Revive 100 White Silk, a fully certified FSC paper containing 100% fide-inked post-consumer waste.
The pulp used to produce this product is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this product have been measured and reduced to net zero through a verified carbon offsetting project via The CarbonNeutral company.
This is in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, the global leading standard for carbon neutrality.
Design and production by Radley Yeldar | ry.
com ICAP plc Annual Report ICAP plc 2 Broadgate London EC2M 7UR United Kingdom T: 44 0 20 7000 5000 F: 44 0 20 7000 5975 E: investors@icap.
