strateGic report Governance Financial statements opInIon on other Matters our duty to read other information in the This report is made solely to the companys presCrIBeD BY the CoMpanIes aCt 2006 annual report members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act In our opinion: Under International Standards on Auditing 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken UK and Ireland, we are required to report the part of the Directors remuneration so that we might state to the companys to you if, in our opinion, information in the report to be audited has been properly members those matters we are required annual report is: prepared in accordance with the to state to them in an Auditors report and Companies Act 2006: and materially inconsistent with the information for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in the audited financial statements: or permitted by law, we do not accept or the information given in the Strategic assume responsibility to anyone other than report and the Directors report for the apparently materially incorrect based the company and the companys members financial year for which the financial on, or materially inconsistent with, our as a body, for our audit work, for this report, statements are prepared is consistent with knowledge of the group acquired in the or for the opinions we have formed.
course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
sCope of the aUDIt of the fInanCIaL Matters on WhICh We are reqUIreD stateMents to report BY exCeptIon In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any An audit involves obtaining evidence about adequacy of explanations received and inconsistencies between our knowledge the amounts and disclosures in the financial accounting records acquired during the audit and the statements sufficient to give reasonable Under the Companies Act 2006 we are directors statement that they consider assurance that the financial statements are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the annual report is fair, balanced and free from material misstatement, whether understandable and whether the annual caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information report appropriately discloses those assessment of: whether the accounting and explanations we require for our audit: matters that we communicated to the audit policies are appropriate to the groups or committee which we consider should have and the parent companys circumstances adequate accounting records have not been disclosed.
We confirm that we have and have been consistently applied and been kept by the parent company, or not identified any such inconsistencies or adequately disclosed: the reasonableness returns adequate for our audit have not misleading statements.
of significant accounting estimates made by been received from branches not visited the directors: and the overall presentation of by us: or respeCtIve responsIBILItIes of the financial statements.
In addition, we read DIreCtors anD aUDItor all the financial and non-financial information the parent company financial statements in the annual report to identify material are not in agreement with the accounting As explained more fully in the Directors inconsistencies with the audited financial records and returns.
responsibilities statement, the directors statements and to identify any information are responsible for the preparation of We have nothing to report in respect of that is apparently materially incorrect based the financial statements and for being these matters.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
knowledge acquired by us in the course of Our responsibility is to audit and express Directors remuneration performing the audit.
If we become aware an opinion on the financial statements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also of any apparent material misstatements or in accordance with applicable law and required to report if in our opinion certain inconsistencies we consider the implications International Standards on Auditing UK disclosures of directors remuneration have for our report.
Those standards require us to not been made or the part of the Directors comply with the Auditing Practices Boards remuneration report to be audited is not in Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also agreement with the accounting records and comply with International Standard on returns.
We have nothing to report arising Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit from these matters.
CaLUM thoMson methodology and tools aim to ensure that Senior statutory auditor our quality control procedures are effective, for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Corporate Governance statement understood and applied.
Our quality Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Under the Listing Rules we are also controls and systems include our dedicated London, United Kingdom required to review the part of the Corporate professional standards review team, Governance Statement relating to the strategically focused second partner reviews companys compliance with nine provisions and independent partner reviews.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
