ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION pOlICy continued fees paID to non exeCUtIve DIreCtors pUrpose anD LInK to strateGY opportUnItY To facilitate the recruitment of Non Executive Directors who will oversee the Non Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share development of strategy and monitor the Managing Directors stewardship schemes and are not eligible to join the designated Group pension plan of the business Fees are set and reviewed in line with market rates.
Aggregate annual fees do not exceed the limit set out in the Articles of Association of 600,000 operatIon perforManCe ConDItIons Fees are payable to Non Executive Directors for their services in positions None of the Non Executive Directors remuneration is subject to upon the Board and various Committees performance conditions Fees for the Chairman are determined and reviewed annually by the Committee and fees for Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board The Committee relies upon objective research on up to date relevant information for similar companies LeGaCY reMUneratIon sCheMes The following remuneration schemes formed part of the Companys remuneration policy in previous years and are being phased out following a review of remuneration in 2010.
No new awards will be made but some awards granted in earlier years and held by Managing Directors may vest when the approved policy is in force.
the KeY eMpLoYee retentIon share pLan Kersp pUrpose anD LInK to strateGY opportUnItY To align the interests of the Companys Managing Directors with those This is a legacy remuneration scheme no new options have been ofshareholders awarded since June 2008 Vesting of options previously awarded is subject to the performance conditions set out below The limit on any individuals participation is 20% of the value of their monetary remuneration in the year of award operatIon perforManCe ConDItIons The Key Employee Retention Share Plan KERSP was adopted on In order to exercise these options, the Company must achieve a growth in 23 May 2005, under which an amount, up to 5% of the value of the MTIS earnings per share EPS of 5% per annum from the date of grant to the pool a legacy incentive scheme which has now closed, may be distributed vesting date.
It is unlikely that this performance condition will be met to key Managing Directors in the form of share options with an exercise price equal to nil notes to the poLICY taBLe perforManCe MeasUres anD tarGets The Annual Award Pool is determined by the Executive Committee and Remuneration Committee through an assessment of ICGs financial performance.
Cash profit provides a link between income generation for shareholders and employee compensation, ensuring that excessive awards to employees are not made and that any awards that are made are affordable on a cash basis.
Management information is provided to the Executive Committee and Remuneration Committee on performance to ensure that financial results are put into the context of wider performance and risk appetite.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements The AAP is calculated as a cumulative average of 30% of cash profit from the year ending 31 March 2012 until the year ending 31 March 2016, after which it is calculated as a five year rolling average.
The 30% cap may be exceeded in any year as long as, over a five year period, on average the AAP does not exceed 30% of cash profit.
A further adjustment is made to cash profit to reflect the remuneration cost of our in house fund distribution team.
This team can significantly reduce the cost of external placement agent fees.
The AAP is increased by the amount of this adjustment and the variable pay of all employees including the fund distribution team is awarded out of the expanded AAP.
Once the AAP has been determined, it is then distributed based onanindividuals contribution and performance as determined by the annual appraisal process.
DIfferenCe In reMUneratIon poLICY for aLL eMpLoYees All employees of ICG are entitled to base salary, benefits and in most locations pension.
The variable compensation mix for all employees is drawn from the Annual Award Pool and is allocated according to the framework below, by reference to role, responsibility and performance.
Employee Annual bonus PLC Equity Award FMC Equity Award Balance Sheet Carry Performance fees Managing Director Credit Fund Management Partner Investment Partner ICG Business Infrastructure Partner Investment Director Credit Fund Management Investment Director ICG Business Infrastructure Director Investment Associate Director Credit Fund Management Associate Director All other staff The variable compensation mix may be varied from the above if required by law or regulation.
The quantum of each of these awards is determined by the size of the Annual Award Pool, an individuals seniority, contribution and their individual performance as determined by the annual appraisal process.
In addition, all UK employees are eligible to join the Intermediate CapitalGroup plc SAYE Plan 2004.
CarrIeD Interest on thIrD partY fUnDs The Company has established for its executives including Managing Directors carried interest arrangements under which between 60% and 80% of the carried interest negotiated by the Company in respect of managed funds raised since 21 January 1998 is available for allocation to its executives.
Those executives to whom allocations are made pay full market value for the interests at the time of acquisition so that no remuneration arises.
Further details of each of these funds can be found on page 19.
