ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIvIDenD post BaLanCe sheet events DIReCTORS RepORT The Directors recommend a final net Material events since the balance sheet continued dividend payment in respect of the ordinary dateare described in note 31 and form shares of the Company at a rate of 14.4p partof the Directors report disclosures.
per share 2013: 13.7p, which when added poLItICaL anD CharItaBLe to the interim net dividend of 6.6p per share ContrIBUtIons 2013: 6.3p, gives a total net dividend for the year of 21.0p per share 2013: 20.0p.
No contributions were made during The amount of dividend paid in the year was the current and prior year for political 78.2m 2013: 74.9m.
The charitable donations madeby the Company are detailed aUDItor at page 38, which forms part of the Directorsreport disclosures.
A resolution for the reappointment of the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, will be proposed GreenhoUse Gas eMIssIons at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of auditors remuneration for audit and non audit work All disclosures concerning the Groups are disclosed in note 9 to the accounts.
greenhouse emissions are detailed on page 38, which forms part of the Directors DIsCLosUre of InforMatIon to the report disclosures.
aUDItor DIreCtors InDeMnItY Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: The Company has entered into contractual indemnities with each of the Directors 1.
So far as the Director is aware, there is pursuant to the amendment to the no relevant audit information of which the Companys Articles of Association Companys auditor is unaware authorised at the 2010 AGM and these 2.
The Director has taken all reasonable remain in force.
The Company also provides steps that they ought to have taken as Directors and Officers insurance for a Director in order to make themselves the Directors.
aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor aCqUIsItIon of shares BY eMpLoYee is aware of that information BenefIt trUst Acquisition of shares by the Intermediate This confirmation is given and should be Capital Group Employee Benefit Trust 2002 interpreted in accordance with the provisions purchased during the year are as described of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. in note 20 to the financial statements.
