strateGic report Governance Financial statements CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 continued Share 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Capital based Available Non Share Share redemption payments for sale Own Retained controlling Total Intermediate Capital Group plc is incorporated in the United Kingdom with Company registration number 02234775.
The registered capital premium reserve reserve reserve shares earnings Total interest equity office is Juxon House, 100 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8BU.
Group m m m m m m m m m m The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are detailed in the Directors report.
Balance at 1 April 2012 80.0 668.0 1.4 24.7 101.2 33.0 608.3 1,450.6 0.1 1,450.7 Profit for the year 124.4 124.4 0.6 123.8 At the date of signing of these financial statements, certain new standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group.
The Directors are in the process of assessing the impact of the forthcoming standards Available for sale financial on the operations of the Group.
assets 59.6 59.6 59.6 Exchange differences on INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IAS IFRS translation of foreign Accounting periods commencing on or after operations 1.2 1.2 1.2 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 Tax on items taken directly to or transferred from equity 11.0 11.0 11.0 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 Total comprehensive income IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 for the year 48.6 125.6 174.2 0.6 173.6 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Amendments 1 January 2014 Own shares acquired in the IAS 28 Investments in Associate and Joint Ventures Amendments 1 January 2014 year 13.3 13.3 13.3 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement and Options awards exercised 0.4 3.7 0.9 0.6 3.8 3.8 IFRS 9 Additions to Financial Liability Accounting 1 January 2015 Capital contribution 0.2 0.2 Management are well advanced in their assessment of the impact of IFRS 10, which redefines the principle of control and the Credit for equity settled requirements for consolidation.
The Group adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement in the current financial year.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Balance at 31 March 2013 80.4 671.7 1.4 46.6 149.8 45.7 659.0 1,563.2 0.3 1,562.9 BASIS OF PREPARATION Capital Share based Available The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use Share Share redemption payments for sale Retained Total in the European Union and in compliance with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
capital premium reserve reserve reserve earnings equity Company m m m m m m m The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments and non Balance at 1 April 2012 80.0 668.0 1.4 23.5 4.2 445.1 1,222.2 derivative financial instruments valued at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets, valued at fair value through equity.
Profit for the year 97.8 97.8 Available for sale financial assets 4.9 4.9 The functional and presentational currency of the Group and Company is Sterling.
Tax on items taken directly to The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial or transferred from equity 1.1 1.1 statements, except for the disclosure of fair measurements of financial liabilities, which was revised following the adoption of IFRS 13.
Total comprehensive income for the year 3.8 97.8 101.6 GOING CONCERN Options awards exercised 0.4 3.7 0.9 3.2 The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Credit for equity settled share schemes 21.8 21.8 adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to adopt the going concern Dividends paid 74.9 74.9 basis of preparing the financial accounts.
Balance at 31 March 2013 80.4 671.7 1.4 44.4 8.0 468.0 1,273.9 The Directors have made this assessment in light of the 678.3m cash and unutilised debt facilities following a period of high realisations, no significant bank facilities maturing until 2016, and after reviewing the Groups latest forecasts for a period of two years The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 2 to 45.
This includes on pages 22 to 27 the Financial Review detailing the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
In addition, note 3 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors believe that the Group and Company are well placed to manage their business risks successfully in the current economic environment.
The Directors continually monitor the debt profile of the Group and Company, and seek to refinance senior facilities a substantial period before they mature.
The Group and Company have no facilities due to mature within the next 12 months.
98 99 ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Groups financial statements consolidate the results of Intermediate Capital Group plc and entities controlled by the Company.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to control the financial and operating policies.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The acquisition method involves the recognition of all assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired business at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, unrealised income and expenses are eliminated.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
A joint venture is an entity over which the Group shares the power to control the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
Associates and joint ventures are classified as fair value through profit or loss and measured in accordance with IAS 39.
Employee Benefit Trust The Employee Benefit Trust EBT acts as a special purpose vehicle, with the purpose of purchasing and holding shares of the Company for the hedging of future liabilities arising as a result of the employee share based compensation scheme.
The EBT is consolidated into the Groups financial statements.
Own shares held Shares of the Company acquired by the EBT for the purpose of hedging share based payment transactions are recognised and held at cost in the reserve for own shares.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys own shares.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES Investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company Statement of Financial Position are recorded at cost less provision for impairments.
INCOME RECOGNITION Finance income includes interest income and dividend income.
Interest income on financial assets held at amortised cost is measured using the effective interest rate method.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive income is established.
Fair value movements on financial assets comprise gains on disposal of available for sale financial assets and fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Both are recognised as incurred.
Fund Management fees and commissions are recognised in the income statement when the related service has been performed.
The Group receives carried interest from the third party funds it manages once those funds exceed a performance target.
Carried interest income is recognised only when all performance conditions have been met.
FINANCE COSTS Finance costs comprise interest expense on financial liabilities, fair values losses on derivatives and net foreign exchange losses.
Interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost is measured using the effective interest rate method, as outlined on page 104.
The expected life of the liability is based upon the maturity date.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
OPERATING LEASES Operating lease payments, net of lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 continued EMPLOYEES BENEFITS 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement as incurred.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group issues compensation to its employees under equity settled share based payment plans.
Equity settled share based The Groups financial statements consolidate the results of Intermediate Capital Group plc and entities controlled by the Company.
payments are measured at the fair value of the awards at grant date.
The fair value includes the effect of non market based vesting conditions.
The fair value determined at the date of grant is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
At each balance Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to control the financial and operating policies.
sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of non market based vesting Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement with a corresponding ceases.
TAXATION Adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of the Group.
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
An associate is an entity over which the Group Current tax has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
Associates and joint ventures are Current tax assets and liabilities comprise those obligations to, or claims from, fiscal authorities relating to the current or prior reporting classified as fair value through profit or loss and measured in accordance with IAS 39. period, that are unpaid at the balance sheet date.
Employee Benefit Trust Deferred tax The Employee Benefit Trust EBT acts as a special purpose vehicle, with the purpose of purchasing and holding shares of the Company Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
for the hedging of future liabilities arising as a result of the employee share based compensation scheme.
The EBT is consolidated into Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is the Groups financial statements.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition of Own shares held other assets and liabilities in a transaction, other than a business combination, that affects neither the tax nor the accounting profit.
Shares of the Company acquired by the EBT for the purpose of hedging share based payment transactions are recognised and held at cost in the reserve for own shares.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Companys Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to their respective period of realisation, own shares.
provided they are enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right of set off, when they relate to income taxes levied INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle on a net basis.
Investments in subsidiaries in the Parent Company Statement of Financial Position are recorded at cost less provision for impairments.
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a component of tax expense in the income statement, except where they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the related deferred tax is also charged or credited INCOME RECOGNITION directly to equity.
Finance income includes interest income and dividend income.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive income is established.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are retranslated at the rates prevailing Fair value movements on financial assets comprise gains on disposal of available for sale financial assets and fair value gains on financial at the balance sheet date.
Non monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are assets at fair value through profit or loss.
translated at the rate prevailing at the date the fair value was determined.
Non monetary items that are measured at historical cost are Fund Management fees and commissions are recognised in the income statement when the related service has been performed.
translated using rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Carried The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated using the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
interest income is recognised only when all performance conditions have been met.
Income and expense items are translated using the average exchange rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign operations are taken directly to the translation reserve.
FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are classified into the following categories, as determined on initial recognition: Interest expense on financial liabilities held at amortised cost is measured using the effective interest rate method, as outlined on page 104.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include held for trading derivative financial instruments and debt and equity instruments designated as fair value through profit or loss.
OPERATING LEASES Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value on a recurring basis Operating lease payments, net of lease incentives, are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
100 101 ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost.
They are non derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They include loans made as part of the Groups operating activities as well as trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently valued at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of loans and receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Available For Sale AFS AFS financial assets are financial assets not classified elsewhere and include listed bonds and listed and unlisted equity instruments.
AFS financial assets are initially recognised at fair value.
They are subsequently measured at fair value on a recurring basis with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value included as a separate component of equity until its sale or impairment, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS With the exception of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that financial assets may be impaired at each balance sheet date.
A financial asset is impaired when objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that the loss event has an impact on the estimated future flows.
For an investment in an equity instrument held as an AFS financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below cost is considered objective evidence of impairment.
If an impairment event has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
If the impairment relates to AFS financial assets, the loss is recycled from equity to the income statement.
With the exception of AFS assets if, in a subsequent period, the amount of impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
In respect of AFS financial assets, impairment losses previously recognised in the income statement are not reversed through the income statement.
Any increase in value, subsequent to an impairment loss, is recognised in other comprehensive income.
OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
FINANCIAL ASSETS HELD FOR SALE The Group classifies non current financial assets that are expected to be recovered primarily from sale as held for sale.
Non current assets held for sale are initially recognised at cost, and subsequently measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES All financial liabilities, with the exception of derivatives, are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Derivative liabilities are categorised as fair value through profit or loss.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 continued DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
Derivatives, including FINANCIAL ASSETS CONTINUED embedded derivatives which are not considered to be closely related to the host contract, are recognised at fair value determined using independent third party valuations or quoted market prices.
Changes in fair values of derivatives are recognised immediately in Loans and receivables the income statement.
Loans and receivables are held at amortised cost.
They include loans made as part of the Groups operating activities as well as trade and other INTANGIBLE ASSETS receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Goodwill Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including direct and incremental transaction costs and subsequently valued The excess of the fair value at the date of acquisition of the cost of investments in subsidiaries over the fair value of the net assets at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of loans and receivables is considered a reasonable acquired which is not allocated to individual assets and liabilities is determined to be goodwill.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost approximation of fair value.
and is reviewed at least annually for impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Groups income statements and is not subsequently reversed.
Other intangible assets Investment management contracts have been identified as separately identifiable intangible assets.
These are measured at cost Available For Sale AFS and are being amortised on a straight line basis over the expected life of the contract.
The useful economic life was reassessed AFS financial assets are financial assets not classified elsewhere and include listed bonds and listed and unlisted equity instruments.
during the year, increasing from four to five years.
The asset will continue to be amortised on a straight line basis over the remaining two years.
The charge recognised in the income statement has reduced by 0.3m in the current year.
They are subsequently measured at fair value on a recurring basis with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value included as a separate component of equity until its sale or impairment, at which time the DIVIDENDS PAID cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends paid to the Companys Shareholders are recognised in the period in which the dividends are declared.
In the case of final IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS dividends, this is when they are approved by the Companys Shareholders at the AGM.
Dividends paid are recognised as a deduction from equity.
With the exception of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that financial assets may be impaired at each balance sheet date.
A financial asset is impaired when objective evidence SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND UNCERTAINTIES indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that the loss event has an impact on the estimated future flows.
The significant accounting estimates used in preparing the financial statements are considered to relate to the determination of fair values and impairment of financial instruments.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and For an investment in an equity instrument held as an AFS financial asset, a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below cost is other relevant factors, and are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
considered objective evidence of impairment.
Determination of fair values If an impairment event has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction at measurement date.
The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate the fair values: With the exception of AFS assets if, in a subsequent period, the amount of impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related AFS financial assets and financial assets at FVTPL objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through The fair value of equity investments and warrants are based on quoted prices, where available.
Where quoted prices are not available, the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed the fair value is based on recent significant transactions using an earnings based valuation technique.
what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
The valuation techniques applied follow the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines December 2012 and In respect of AFS financial assets, impairment losses previously recognised in the income statement are not reversed through the include some assumptions which are not supportable by observable market prices or rates.
The majority of the portfolio of unquoted income statement.
shares and warrants is valued using an earnings based technique.
OFFSETTING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Earnings multiples are applied to the maintainable earnings of the private company being valued to determine the enterprise value.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when the Group has a legal From this, the value attributable to the Group is calculated based on its holding in the company after making deductions for higher right to offset the amounts and intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
ranking instruments in the capital structure.
The Groups policy is to use reported earnings based on the latest management accounts available from the company, adjusted for non FINANCIAL ASSETS HELD FOR SALE recurring items.
For each company being valued, the earnings multiple is derived from a set of comparable listed companies or relevant The Group classifies non current financial assets that are expected to be recovered primarily from sale as held for sale.
Non current market transaction multiples that have been approved by the Investment Committee.
A premium or discount is applied to the earnings assets held for sale are initially recognised at cost, and subsequently measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less multiple to adjust for points of difference relating to risk and earnings growth prospects between the comparable company set and the costs to sell.
Across the portfolio being valued, the discount applied is generally in a range of 5% to 30% and exceptionally as high as 63%.
The adjusted multiple is the key valuation input which could change fair values significantly if a reasonably FINANCIAL LIABILITIES possible alternative assumption was made.
The sensitivity analysis of this input is disclosed in note 3.
All financial liabilities, with the exception of derivatives, are initially recognised at fair value net of transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
