ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIReCTORS ReMUNeRATION pOlICy continued stateMent of ConsIDeratIon of eMpLoYMent ConDItIons eLseWhere In the CoMpanY anD eMpLoYee vIeWs The Remuneration Committee considers the employment conditions and the remuneration structures in place for all employees of the Group when setting the Directors remuneration policy.
This is demonstrated, for example, by the fact that a Managing Directors annual incentive award is made from the same Annual Award Pool as provides for all other employees.
The Group does not consult with employees when setting the Directors remuneration policy.
approaCh to reCrUItMent reMUneratIon ICG operates in a highly specialised and competitive market, and so competition for talent is fierce.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay what is sufficient to attract appropriate candidates to a role.
Newly recruited Managing Directors are offered a remuneration package similar to that of existing employees in the same job role.
All Managing Directors are offered the same annual salary, benefits and pension and all participate in the Annual Award Pool and are subject to the same overall cap on incentives.
Furthermore, objectives are assigned to the Managing Directors.
However, it may be necessary to offer a new Managing Director a remuneration package that differs from that currently provided to the Managing Directors in order to attract the best recruit.
This could include a higher base salary and relocation and or housing benefits.
Buying out deferred bonuses and long term incentives is permitted subject to, as far as possible, the timing, delivery mechanism i. e. shares or cash and amounts paid out being set to reflect any former arrangement including potential forfeiture of part or all of the former arrangement.
As far as possible, the value of any replacement awards will reflect the expected value of the forfeited awards.
In the event of an internal promotion to the Board, the Committee reserves the right to allow any pre-existing awards or arrangements to continue notwithstanding that these may not be consistent with the approved policy.
servICe ContraCts anD poLICY on paYMents for Loss of offICe ManaGInG DIreCtors The Companys policy is for Managing Directors to have one year rolling contracts which are deemed appropriate for the nature of the Companys business.
Service contracts are held, and are available for inspection, at the Companys registered office.
The details of the service contracts for Managing Directors serving during the year are shown below.
Compensation on termination by the Managing Director Date of service contract Last re-elected Notice period Non-compete provisions company without notice or cause Christophe Evain 30 May 2006 17 July 2013 The salary for any unexpired period 12 months Restraint period ofnotice plus the cost to the Company Philip Keller 12 October 2006 17 July 2013 12 months of 12months excluding NI contributions of providing } Benot Durteste 21 May 2012 17 July 2013 12 months insurance benefits for the same period The Committee reserves discretion to make an annual bonus award to a Managing Director in respect of the final full year of service, taking into account the circumstances of the individuals termination of office and performance for the financial year concerned.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements Details of the treatment of long term incentive awards in the case of loss of office are shown below.
Death, disability, long term Long term incentive award Status ill health Redundancy Cause or competing Any other reason Deferred Share Award Unvested Early vesting Early vesting subject N A Forfeit, subject to discretion todiscretion PLC Equity Award Unvested Retain with early vesting Retain Forfeit, subject Retain, subject todiscretion todiscretion FMC Equity Award Vested, but not Retain with early release Retain Forfeit, subject Retain, subject yetreleased todiscretion todiscretion Unvested Retain with early vesting Retain, subject to Forfeit, subject Forfeit, subject and release discretion todiscretion todiscretion Balance Sheet Carry Vested Retain Retain Forfeit, subject Retain, subject Plan todiscretion todiscretion Unvested Retain with immediate Forfeit, subject to Forfeit, subject Forfeit, subject vesting discretion todiscretion todiscretion Carried Interest Over Vested Retain Retain Forfeit, subject Retain Third Party Funds todiscretion Unvested Forfeit, subject to Forfeit, subject to Forfeit, subject Forfeit, subject discretion discretion todiscretion todiscretion exerCIse of DIsCretIon The discretion available to the Committee under the long term incentive plans is intended to provide the Committee with flexibility to deal fairly with every eventuality.
In exercising its discretion, the Committee will take into account the circumstances in which the individual has left the Company, their performance and the impact thatthis has had on the Companys overall performance.
non exeCUtIve DIreCtors Non Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and are not eligible to join the designated Group pension plan.
Details of NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment are as shown below.
Notice period Policy on payment Non Executive Director Date appointed Last re-elected Re-election frequency unlessnotre-elected forlossof office Justin Dowley February 2006 July 2013 Annual 3 months None Peter Gibbs March 2010 July 2013 Annual 3 months None Lindsey McMurray September 2012 July 2013 Annual 3 months None Kevin Parry June 2009 July 2013 Annual 3 months None Kim Wahl July 2012 July 2013 Annual 3 months None 70 71
