strateGic report Governance Financial statements The Committee undertakes an annual During the year the Group paid 401,000 to externaL aUDItors evaluation to assess the independence and Deloitte LLP for the provision of corporate Deloitte LLP has been the Companys objectivity of the external auditor and the non audit services.
Of this, 92,000 is in external auditor since its commencement effectiveness of the audit process, taking respect of services in their capacity as of trading.
In accordance with professional into consideration relevant professional and auditors and 309,000 in the form of tax and regulatory standards the lead audit regulatory requirements.
The assessment compliance and advisory services not related partner has changed regularly since that focuses on quality of service and so aims to the audit of the financial statements.
time to safeguard the independence and to be broader than just reaching views These were provided by Deloitte as they are objectivity of the audit process.
The most on a particular audit.
This assessment is judged to be a market leader in these areas, recent audit partner rotation was in 2010 based on the results of questionnaires having a reputation for quality, and having a and the current audit partners five year term completed by the Committee members, the local presence in the countries in which the will end at the conclusion of the 2015 audit.
Executive Directors and other relevant senior services were performed.
Audit objectivity We have been monitoring audit regulatory management.
The results of the evaluation and independence was safeguarded in developments determined by the FRC, were last reported to the Audit Committee these instances through the advice being Competition Commission and the EU.
Having completed the provided by partners and staff that have The EU has recently approved legislation review, and discussed its findings with the no involvement in the audit of the financial that will require us to change our audit firm auditors, the Committee remains content statements.
The advice was not dependent by no later than after the 2020 year end.
with Deloittes work whilst identifying some on a particular accounting treatment and We await the final requirements from the areas for service improvement: feedback the outcome or consequences of the Competition Commission later this year.
on the prudence of impairments and tax advice did not have a material effect on the Absent any major service or quality issues, provisions and advance information on Groups financial statements.
No services the desirability of a change of auditors is a the reasons for cost overruns.
The Audit were provided pursuant to contingent fee delicate balance between a fresh pair of Committee discussed the output with arrangements.
A detailed analysis of fees eyes and accumulated knowledge applied Deloitte and they have assured the paid to Deloitte LLP is shown in note 9 on to produce a robust audit.
Consequently, Committee they will seek to address page 119.
EU audit legislation introduces based on our understanding of legislation, the areas where they can improve the certain restrictions on the provision of we anticipate that Deloitte will rotate their service delivery.
nonaudit services including a 70% audit partner after the 2015 audit and then, nonaudit services fee cap.
The restrictions in good time for the 2020 year end, the audit The Committee regularly monitors non on non audit services will become effective will be tendered and rotated to another firm audit services being provided to the Group two years from the date of entry into force of auditors.
It is proposed that David Barnes by its external auditor to ensure there is of the regulation: as such, it is expected to will succeed Calum Thomson as our audit no impairment to their independence or be in force for the 2016 financial year.
partner, and we are satisfied that he has the objectivity.
Stringent procedures are in experience and industry knowledge to be place to ensure that all significant non audit the lead audit partner.
The timing of auditor work performed by the auditor in excess rotation will be kept under annual review and of 50,000 is approved in advance by if legislation changes, or if the UK determines the Committee.
Engagements are only different rotation rules to the EU regulations, approved if they do not and will not impair, or or there are any concerns as to Deloittes appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence, the quality of their audit or the independence.
The procedures set out the service levels, the audit tender and rotation categories of non audit services which the might be undertaken sooner.
external auditor will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, including those which are pre-approved by the Committee and those which require specific approval before they are contracted for, subject to fide minimus levels.
