Financial Statements 105 ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES 105 Basis of preparation The Consolidated Group and Parent Company Financial Statements of International Personal Finance plc and its subsidiaries IPF or the Group have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 January 2014 but do not have any impact on the Group: Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2011-2013 cycle: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities: IAS 19 amendment Defined benefit plans: employee contributions: IAS 32 amendment Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: IAS 36 amendment Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets: IAS 39 amendment Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting: and IFRIC 21 Levies.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing standards are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
This standard replaces IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and will affect the Groups accounting for its financial assets.
The mandatory implementation date for this standard is 1 January 2018 however it has not yet been endorsed by the European Union.
The Group is in the process of assessing IFRS 9s full impact: Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture: IFRS 11 amendment Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations: IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: bearer plants: IAS 27 Equity method in separate Financial Statements: and Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 cycle.
Accounting convention The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments at fair value.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out in the following paragraphs.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement on page 48.
Consolidation These Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial results of all companies which are controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
All companies are 100% owned by IPF Group companies.
A list of the principal subsidiaries in the Group is included in note 12.
106 International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES 106 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 continued continued Finance costs Finance costs comprise the interest on external borrowings which are recognised on an effective interest rate EIR basis, and gains or losses on derivative contracts taken to the income statement.
Segment reporting The Groups operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of operating segments, has been identified as the Board.
A geographical segment is a component of the Group that operates within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax and intra-Group transactions, comprises revenue earned on amounts receivable from customers.
Revenue on customer receivables is calculated using an EIR.
The EIR is calculated using estimated cash flows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of customers paying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers paying late or not paying at all.
Directly attributable issue costs are also taken into account in calculating the EIR.
Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the original EIR applied to the loans carrying value.
The accounting for amounts receivable from customers is considered further below.
Leases The leases entered into by the Group are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Leases are classified as operating leases whenever the terms of the lease do not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
Other operating costs Other operating costs include agents commission, marketing costs and foreign exchange gains and losses.
All other costs are included in administrative expenses.
Share-based payments The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
The corresponding credit is made to retained earnings.
The cost is based on the fair value of awards granted, which is determined using both a Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes option pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
In the Parent Company Financial Statements, in accordance with IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, the fair value of providing share-based payments to employees of subsidiary companies is treated as an increase in the investment in subsidiaries.
Exceptional items The Group classifies as exceptional those significant items that are one-off in nature and do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Financial Statements 107 107 Financial instruments Amounts receivable from customers All customer receivables are recognised initially at the amount loaned to the customer plus directly attributable incremental issue costs.
After initial recognition, customer receivables are measured subsequently at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is the amount of the customer receivable at initial recognition less customer repayments, plus revenue earned calculated using the EIR, less any deduction for impairment.
Customer receivables are classified as loans and receivables in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
All customer receivables are assessed for impairment each week.
Customer accounts that are in arrears are deemed to have demonstrated evidence of impairment and are subject to an impairment review.
Impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage.
These estimated future cash flows are discounted to a present value using the original EIR and this figure is compared with the balance sheet value.
Impairment charges in respect of customer receivables are charged to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand.
Cash also includes those balances held by agents for operational purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no right of offset with cash balances.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts, to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
The majority of the Groups derivatives are cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions and meet the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
Derivatives are recognised initially at the fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured subsequently at each reporting date at their fair value.
Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in their fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges and where the hedge accounting criteria are met, the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of finance costs.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: it is evident from testing that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are stated subsequently at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the EIR.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
108 International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES 108 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 continued continued Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise computer software.
Computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire or develop the specific software and bring it into use.
All intangible assets are internally generated.
Computer software is amortised within administrative expenses on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life which is generally estimated to be five years.
The residual values and economic lives are reviewed by management at each balance sheet date.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, where cost is equal to the fair value of the consideration used to acquire the asset.
Investments are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the investment carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful economic lives.
The following are the principal bases used: Category Depreciation rate Method Fixtures and fittings 10% Straight-line Equipment including computer hardware 20% to 33.3% Straight-line Motor vehicles 25% Reducing balance The residual value and useful economic life of all assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised through the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs to sell.
Share capital IPF plc has only ordinary share capital.
These shares, with a nominal value of 10 pence per share, are classified as equity.
Shares held in treasury and by employee trust The net amount paid to acquire shares is held in a separate reserve and shown as a reduction in equity.
Foreign currency translation Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
The Groups financial information is presented in sterling.
Transactions that are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or credited to the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
The income statements of the Groups subsidiaries none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate and the balance sheets are translated at the exchange rates ruling at each balance sheet date.
Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income.
Financial Statements 109 109 Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Employee benefits Defined benefit pension scheme The charge or credit in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of working employees together with the interest charge on pension liabilities offset by the expected return on pension scheme assets.
All charges or credits are allocated to administrative expenses.
The asset or obligation recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of the schemes assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Parent Company share of the defined benefit retirement obligation is based on the proportion of total Group contributions made by the Parent Company.
Defined contribution schemes Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
110 International Personal Finance plc International Personal Finance plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES 110 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 continued continued Key assumptions and estimates In applying the accounting policies set out above, the Group makes significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as follows: Revenue recognition The judgement in respect of revenue recognition is the methodology used to calculate the EIR.
In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans an estimate must be made of the expected life of each loan and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
These estimates are based on historical data and are reviewed regularly.
Amounts receivable from customers The Group reviews its portfolio of customer loans and receivables for impairment every week.
The Group makes judgements to determine whether there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse effect on expected future cash flows.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears stages as this is considered to be the most reliable predictor of future payment performance.
The level of impairment is calculated using actuarial models which use historical payment performance to generate the estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage of each product.
The impairment models are reviewed regularly to take account of the current economic environment and recent customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in estimating future cash flows, an adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
To the extent that the net present value of estimated cash flows differs by 5%, it is estimated that amounts receivable from customers would be 38.0 million higher lower 2013: 39.2 million.
IAS 39 requires that all of the cash flows directly associated with financial instruments held at amortised cost must be recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
When this approach is applied to a customer loan portfolio, judgements must be made to estimate the average life of that portfolio.
These judgements are applied, taking into account factors including the terms of the particular products and historical repayment data.
These estimates are considered and updated as required in each reporting period to reflect the customer loan portfolios expected performance.
Tax The Group is subject to tax in a number of international jurisdictions as well as the UK.
In some cases, due to the unusual features of home credit, the tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined with certainty until the operation has been subject to a tax audit.
In some instances, this can be a number years after the item has first been reflected in the Financial Statements.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of whether it is probable that a liability will crystallise.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability is different to the amount estimated originally, such differences will be recognised in the period in which the audit or enquiry is determined.
Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax balances held in the balance sheet.
