Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of 1.
Accounting policies the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a public limited using the equity method, from the date that significant influence or company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK and registered in joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements include the ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests voting rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i. in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
When the Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest a Statement of compliance in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the associate or joint venture.
Where the disposal of an investment IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
b Basis of preparation d Goodwill The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical date of transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, financial assets and liabilities as described in the accounting policies goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, representing the below.
The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements difference between the fair value cost of the business combination which became effective this year, none of which had any significant and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent impact on the Groups results or financial position.
This includes the assets and liabilities assumed.
adoption of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition amendments to IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under and IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement where adoption on 1 July 2013 the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP is considered to be early adoption for the purposes of complying with accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2014, this date was 29 Date, which is not reinstated and is not included in determining June 2014, this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2013: 30 June 2013, any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, accounting period as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts classified assets and liabilities as current when they are expected of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the normal Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income operating cycle of the Group.
statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the c Basis of consolidation carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE achieved where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Companys i. Intangible assets returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements income statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development of the Company from the date control of the subsidiary commences expenditure relating to the application of research knowledge to until the date that control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale or any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising use within the business is recognised as an intangible asset from from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the the point at which the Group has the intention and ability to generate consolidated financial statements.
probable future economic benefits from the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent ii.
Associates and joint ventures expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other development Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
but not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net or through a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair assets of the arrangement.
value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
90 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available curve for the counterparty and calculates the DVA where it has a for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating net liability position using an industry proxy credit default swap expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible assets estimated curve for the Group.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments useful life, principally being a period between 1 and 25 years, unless is calculated by discounting future cash flows with reference to the the asset life is judged to be indefinite.
During the year the Group benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the relevant credit default swap revised the estimated useful life of certain intangible assets.
Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly revisions were accounted for prospectively as a change in accounting probable forecast transactions hedged items, which meet estimate and as a result the amortisation charge in the current year qualifying criteria under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition has decreased by 24 million.
If the useful life is indefinite or the and Measurement IAS 39, are designated as cash flow hedges asset is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and or fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow hedge accounting an impairment test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible or fair value hedge accounting respectively.
Certain other derivatives assets are tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes as hedges, despite this being their economic ii.
Property, plant and equipment function.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognised Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and immediately in the income statement.
The Group does not hold or any impairment losses, see accounting policy i, other than those issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
items that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
When an item of i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting PPE comprises major components having different useful economic Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
flow hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised in the hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the derivative used Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE are designated under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other see accounting policy n. movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the life.
Land and assets that are not yet available for use are not related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges is Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years of the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging instruments being leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset compared to the expected cash flows of the hedged items.
This assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use future periods.
The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the Groups hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
derivative method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that would the Groups general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge is calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing effectiveness.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of to the Group excluding the interest on any borrowings specific the actual hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical to any qualifying assets.
This is then applied to the expenditures derivative is deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised on the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, period to which they relate.
in accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities is suspended.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the price that would when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly statement, provided that the underlying transaction is still expected transaction between market participants at the measurement to occur.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, date under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group calculates the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve a separate credit valuation adjustment CVA or debit valuation is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future adjustment DVA for each derivative based upon the net position changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments for each counterparty relationship.
The Group calculates the CVA are immediately recognised in the income statement.
where it has a net asset position using a quoted credit default swap British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 91 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of television programme inventories is recognised 1.
Accounting policies continued in the operating expense line of the income statement, primarily ii.
Derivatives t hat qualify for fair value hedge accounting as described below: The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges Sports 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement as defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying or competitions, such rights are principally recognised on values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value News 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement movement on the derivative.
Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison Movies The cost is recognised in the income statement of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying on a straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights.
hedged item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative General entertainment The cost is recognised in the income counterparty.
The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair statement based on the expected value of each planned broadcast.
value hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with movements in the fair value of the hedged item being Where programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups compared to movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the programming will not be broadcast for The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is made.
any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed Any reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Programme distribution rights Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and and NRV, net of the accumulated expense charged to the income characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts statement to date.
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the the operating expense line of the income statement on an ultimate inception of the host contract.
Changes in fair value are recognised revenue forecast basis.
within the income statement during the period in which they arise.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at the g Inventories lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the value that i.
Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related for broadcast equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised through Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost the operating expense line of the income statement.
Any subsidy and net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to charged to the income statement to date.
view encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion of the installation process for new customers.
Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally The amount recognised in the income statement is determined on enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventory.
have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably determinable: b the programme material has been accepted by the iv.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and c the Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued programme is available for its first showing.
Prior to being included at the lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables in inventories, the programming rights are classified as television and goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded line of the income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
as inventories on the Groups balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual commitments see note 26.
Payments made upon h Financial assets and liabilities receipt of commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes, are treated Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value as prepayments.
plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from the balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Groups balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
92 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements i. Available-for-sale investments i Impairment Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment are classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried of Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets at fair value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements excluding inventories see accounting policy g, non-current assets in fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
classified as held for sale, financial assets see accounting policy h Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment and deferred taxation see accounting policy o to determine whether is carried at cost.
there is any indication that any of those assets have suffered an Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as availableimpairment loss.
for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the not reversible through the income statement, and are determined with carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its reference to the closing market share price at the balance sheet date.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale or associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling available-for-sale reserve.
price, defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that through sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and included within current assets.
On disposal, the difference between risks specific to the asset.
Where it is not possible to estimate the the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been recognised recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill ii.
Trade and other receivables allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will of discounting is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised interest method.
An allowance account is maintained to reduce the and is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount carrying value of trade and other receivables for impairment losses does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been identified from objective evidence, with movements in the allowance determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment account, either from increased impairment losses or reversals of loss had been recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts benefits as a result of past events where a reliable estimate is that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of available.
The amounts recognised represent the Groups best the Groups cash management are also included as a component estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to settle of cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax iv.
Short-term deposits market rate adjusted for risks specific to the liability.
This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of more than three months from inception.
These deposits are initially k ESOP reserve recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement less any allowance for impairment losses.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys own equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable v. Trade and other payables transaction costs, is presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and in shareholders equity in the consolidated financial statements.
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
Borrowings Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to which they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 93 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued value is recognised over the period during which employees become 1.
Accounting policies continued unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Groups estimate l Revenue recognition of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between based performance conditions not being met.
Where an award has Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is from Skys operating activities.
The Groups main sources of revenue adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing are recognised as follows: model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as an Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for TV and expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, over-the-top services, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services, except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based is recognised as the goods or services are provided, net of performance measures.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by any discount given.
Pay-per-view and transactional revenue the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to cable and other retailers and is based on the number of subscribers n Leases taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable and other retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified is broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky as operating leases.
acts as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net commission basis.
When the Group is a lessor, sub-lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the income statement when the goods and services are activated.
When the Group is a lessee, assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Bet, technical of acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease platform services, third party set-top box sales, public access WiFi payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in services and programme distribution fees.
With the exception of Sky the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Bet revenue, other revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
Sky Bet revenue is Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and represents income in the reductions of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate period for betting and gaming activities, defined as amounts staked of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
by customers less winnings paid out.
The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total leases are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values.
The fair value of each individual o Taxation, including deferred taxation element is determined using vendor specific or third party evidence.
The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements the year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted is limited to the cash received.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
m Employee benefits Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
Temporary differences arising from goodwill and the initial The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting profit contribution schemes.
The amount charged to the income statement nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax liabilities are in the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments to the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except year.
The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group.
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted.
The fair 94 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each s Reportable segments balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information to be realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred presented in the financial statements to be that which is used tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources.
and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief operating in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged decision maker and as the internal reporting reviewed by the Board or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also focuses on the operations of the Group as a whole and does not included within equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset identify individual operating segments, the Group has only one when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets reportable segment.
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
existing standards that are not yet effective p Distributions to equity shareholders The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards, which have been published Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year but are only effective for our accounting periods beginning on or in which they are declared.
after 1 July 2014 or later periods.
These new pronouncements are The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for listed below: cancellation share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets In addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted effective 1 January 2014 from share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities q Earnings per share effective 1 January 2014 Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and Measurement Novation of Derivatives and Continuation in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of Hedge Accounting effective 1 January 2014 of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups Annual Improvements 2010-2012 cycle effective 1 July 2014 ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Annual Improvements 2011-2013 cycle effective 1 July 2014 Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of Interests in Joint Operations effective 1 January 2016 ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Groups ESOP Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the weighted Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options where effective 1 January 2016 the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers r Foreign currency translation effective 1 January 2017 The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Trading IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in pounds not yet endorsed for use in the EU sterling at the applicable monthly exchange rates.
Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange at that date.
these standards, amendments and interpretations in future periods.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the u Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement date of the initial transaction.
Gains and losses from the retranslation Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
of assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year, except An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Groups where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Below is a summary of the Groups critical The assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are accounting policies and details of the key areas of judgement that translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
are exercised in their application.
Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to other reserves.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 95 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iv.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1.
Accounting policies continued see notes 11 and 12 i.
Revenue see note 2 The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be requires judgement.
Depreciation and amortisation is charged to recognised requires judgement.
This may involve estimating the fair the income statement based on the useful economic life selected.
value of consideration before it is received.
When the Group sells a This assessment requires estimation of the period over which the set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one bundled Group will benefit from the assets.
transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any to each element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of each indication of impairment also requires judgement.
If an indication individual element is determined using vendor specific or third party of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered whether the carrying amount can be supported by the net present elements is limited to the cash received.
value of future cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 7 and 15 This forecast involves cash flow projections and selecting the The Groups tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred appropriate discount rate.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain capitalisation requires judgement.
This requires a determination items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, In particular, internally generated intangible assets must be assessed as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
during the development phase to identify whether the Group has Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make the ability and intention to complete the development successfully.
judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
v. Programming inventory for broadcast see note 16 Amounts provided are based on managements interpretation of The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast country-specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Tax benefits that requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions will be profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken number of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely resolution associated with each broadcast.
In order to perform this assessment, of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
the Group considers the following factors: The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements The period over which the programme is expected to be shown in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation on the Groups channels.
This is usually based on a combination and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution rights, and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would will be scheduled.
be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact on the Groups profit and loss and or The alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling cash position.
This consideration provides the most appropriate information in order to estimate how frequently individual The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is programmes will be shown during the period in which the Group the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation holds their broadcast rights.
or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming.
of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
additional value to the Group as they attract new TV customers and encourage retention of existing TV customers.
Acquisition accounting and goodwill see note 10 programmes are able to retain more value throughout their Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a expected viewing numbers alone.
business combination and the fair value of the consideration payable.
Calculating the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely assumptions, including expectations about future cash flows, discount to achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual rates and the lives of assets following purchase.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this Judgement is also required in identifying the cash generating units consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment to which the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill of the potential impact of the publicly available information on its impairment testing.
Identification of cash generating units involves competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
an assessment of whether assets or groups of assets generate cash flows that are largely independent of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is then allocated to each identified cash generating unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combinations from which goodwill has arisen.
96 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.
Revenue 2014 2013 m m Retail subscription 6,255 5,951 Wholesale subscription 422 396 Advertising 472 440 Installation, hardware and service 85 87 Other 398 361 7,632 7,235 Revenue arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of 478 million 2013: 461 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
Included within wholesale subscription revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 is 15 million credit received following the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
Operating expense 2014 2013 m m Programming 2,662 2,487 Direct networks 850 686 Marketing 1,215 1,117 Subscriber management and supply chain 694 673 Transmission, technology and fixed networks 460 405 Administration 590 576 6,471 5,944 Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2014 are: Costs of 72 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of 27 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 31 million within direct networks 24 million within administration 13 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks 3 million within subscriber management and supply chain 1 million within marketing.
Costs of 40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme in the current year including an impairment of 2 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets.
These costs have been recognised as follows: 22 million within administration 15 million within marketing 3 million within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
This cost has been recognised within administration.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2013 are: Credit of 32 million relating to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination.
This credit has been recognised within direct networks.
Credit of 33 million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes, net of associated costs and including an impairment of 6 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
This credit has been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 31 million relating to the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes.
The costs have been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 25 million relating to a programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
Costs of 15 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of 4 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 7 million within administration 3 million within direct networks 3 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks 2 million within subscriber management and supply chain.
Costs of 33 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme in the prior year including an impairment of 6 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets.
The costs have been recognised as follows: 29 million within administration 1 million within programming 1 million within marketing 1 million within subscriber management and supply chain 1 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 97 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Investment income and finance costs 2014 2013 m m Investment income Interest on cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 4 9 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 22 19 26 28 2014 2013 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges 743 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF 2 2 Guaranteed Notes see note 20 126 122 Finance lease interest 7 7 135 131 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 2 22 Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 4 1 Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 31 34 Gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 32 36 5 23 140 108 Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 4.9% 2013: 5.2% to expenditure on such assets.
The amount capitalised in the current year amounted to 4 million 2013: 2 million.
Profit before taxation Profit before taxation is stated after charging: 2014 2013 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,208 1,992 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 208 176 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 228 202 Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 49 51 Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were 3 million 2013: 8 million.
Foreign exchange Foreign exchange losses recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to 2 million 2013: losses of 1 million.
Audit fees An analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Total audit fees 1.6 1.3 Total non-audit fees 1.4 1.1 Total auditor remuneration 3.0 2.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts were 1.3 million 2013: 1.2 million and fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation were 0.3 million 2013: 0.1 million.
Amounts paid to the auditor for non-audit fees include audit related services of 0.2 million 2013: 0.3 million, taxation services of 0.5 million 2013: 0.3 million, other assurance services of 0.1 million 2013: 0.3 million, other advisory services of nil 2013: nil and transaction services of 0.6 million 2013: 0.2 million.
98 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.
Employee benefits and key management compensation a Group employee benefits 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 844 781 Social security costs 101 101 i Costs of employee share option schemes 60 80 ii Contributions to the Groups pension schemes 39 27 1,044 989 i 60 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments 2013: 80 million charge.
ii The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes during the year.
The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2014 was 5 million 2013: 2 million.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons including temporary employees employed by the Group during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 Number Number Channels and services 3,477 2,701 Customer service, sales and marketing 13,035 11,943 Transmission and technology 3,257 3,651 Management and administration 1,072 1,118 20,841 19,413 There are approximately 497 2013: 523 temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b Key management compensation see note 28d 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 6 Share-based payments 7 10 13 16 Post-employment benefits were less than 1 million 2013: less than 1 million.
The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included within the disclosures in note 6 a. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 99 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation a Taxation recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 m m Current tax expense Current year 232 332 Adjustment in respect of prior years 31 44 Total current tax charge 201 288 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5 20 Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 10 Total deferred tax charge credit 16 10 Taxation 217 278 Taxation relates to a 215 million UK corporation tax charge 2013: 275 million and 2 million overseas corporation tax charge 2013: 3 million.
b Taxation recognised directly in equity 2014 2013 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payments 9 2 Deferred tax credit relating to share-based payments 6 Deferred tax credit relating to cash flow hedges 8 18 17 26 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2013: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 22.5% applied to profit before tax.
The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year was 22.5% 2013: 23.75%.
The differences are explained below: 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax: 1,082 1,257 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.5% 2013: 23.75% 243 299 Effects of: Net effect of non-taxable non-deductible items 8 13 Deferred tax write-off following tax rate change 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 20 34 Taxation 217 278 100 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8.
Earnings per share The weighted average number of shares for the year was: 2014 2013 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,581 1,633 ESOP trust ordinary shares 19 19 Basic shares 1,562 1,614 Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 14 26 Diluted shares 1,576 1,640 There are no share options 2013: none which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes items that may distort comparability.
Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
2014 2013 m m Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year Profit for the year 865 979 Costs relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business see note 3 72 15 Costs relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes see note 3 40 33 Net credit received following termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator see notes 2 and 3 13 Credit received following an Ofcom determination see note 3 32 Costs relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers see note 3 25 Net credit received following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes and costs relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes see note 3 2 Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness see note 4 5 23 Profit on disposal of joint venture see note 13 9 Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items 32 17 Adjusted profit for the year 937 969 2014 2013 pence pence Earnings per share from profit for the year Basic 55.4p 60.7p Diluted 54.9p 59.7p Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year Basic 60.0p 60.0p Diluted 59.5p 59.1p British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 101 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Dividends 2014 2013 m m Dividends declared and paid during the year 2012 Final dividend paid: 16.20p per ordinary share 265 2013 Interim dividend paid: 11.00p per ordinary share 176 2013 Final dividend paid: 19.00p per ordinary share 298 2014 Interim dividend paid: 12.00p per ordinary share 187 485 441 The 2014 final dividend proposed is 20.0 pence per ordinary share being 309 million.
The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2014.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies articles of association and the Companies Act 2006.
The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
Goodwill m Carrying value At 1 July 2012 956 Purchase of O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 49 Other 6 At 30 June 2013 999 Other 20 At 30 June 2014 1,019 Goodwill has principally arisen from the Groups purchases of the Sports Internet Group SIG, British Interactive Broadcasting BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Media, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m i Broadcast 870 850 ii Betting and gaming 149 149 1,019 999 Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2014, which did not indicate impairment.
The Broadcast unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of 25 million 2013: 25 million.
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell as appropriate, using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management.
A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period 2013: 3%.
The cash flows of the Broadcast unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% 2013: 8% and the cash flows of the Betting and gaming unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2013: 10%.
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgement in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate.
i Broadcast The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB, Easynets UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Medias content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
The key assumptions, on which forecast five-year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast activities.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry.
ii Betting and gaming The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Medias betting activities.
The key assumptions on which forecast five-year cash flows were based include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week, the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in betting and gaming.
102 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11.
Intangible assets Internally generated Acquired Software Customer intangible intangible Internally development contracts assets assets generated external and related Other not yet not yet intangible and software customer intangible available available assets licences relationships assets for use for use Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2012 252 427 60 224 54 103 1,120 Additions from business combinations 137 2 139 Additions 102 45 66 25 20 258 Disposals 15 6 2 7 30 Transfers 47 59 47 59 At 30 June 2013 386 525 197 292 30 57 1,487 Additions from business combinations 6 2 8 Additions 87 36 64 84 41 312 Disposals 18 14 3 35 Transfers 43 11 1 43 12 At 30 June 2014 498 558 203 356 71 86 1,772 Amortisation At 1 July 2012 122 308 9 158 597 Amortisation 72 55 7 57 191 Disposals 15 6 2 7 30 Impairments 2 2 7 11 At 30 June 2013 181 357 16 215 769 Amortisation 76 53 26 71 226 Disposals 18 14 3 35 Impairments 1 1 2 At 30 June 2014 239 397 42 284 962 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2012 130 119 51 66 54 103 523 At 30 June 2013 205 168 181 77 30 57 718 At 30 June 2014 259 161 161 72 71 86 810 The Groups internally generated intangible assets relate principally to software development associated with our customer management systems and set-top boxes.
The Groups other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences, connection fees and patents and brands acquired in business combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below.
It is likely that future amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 m m m m m Estimated amortisation charge 230 183 151 105 55 For intangible assets acquired in business combinations in the year, the average amortisation period is 8 years 2013: 6 years.
Other intangible assets include certain assets with indefinite useful lives.
The carrying value of these assets is 25 million 2013: 25 million.
An impairment review of the assets is performed annually as part of the Groups review of the Broadcast CGU note 10.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 103 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment Equipment, Assets Freehold furniture not yet land and Leasehold and available i ii buildings improvements fixtures for use Total m m m m m Cost At 1 July 2012 333 59 1,210 27 1,629 Additions from business combinations 25 25 Additions 1 1 194 48 244 Disposals 2 64 66 Transfers 22 22 At 30 June 2013 334 58 1,387 53 1,832 Additions 4 131 119 254 Disposals 1 74 75 Transfers 31 34 65 At 30 June 2014 369 57 1,478 107 2,011 Depreciation At 1 July 2012 40 27 614 681 Depreciation 6 8 160 174 Disposals 2 64 66 Impairments 1 1 2 At 30 June 2013 46 34 711 791 Foreign exchange movements 1 1 Depreciation 8 7 193 208 Disposals 1 74 75 At 30 June 2014 54 40 829 923 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2012 293 32 596 27 948 At 30 June 2013 288 24 676 53 1,041 At 30 June 2014 315 17 649 107 1,088 i The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of 14 million 2013: 13 million.
The cost of these assets was 23 million 2013: 20 million and the accumulated depreciation was 9 million 2013: 7 million.
Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was 2 million 2013: 1 million.
ii Depreciation was not charged on 88 million of land 2013: 88 million.
104 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13.
Investments in joint ventures and associates A list of the Groups significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 m m Share of net assets: At 1 July 164 156 Movement in net assets Funding, net of repayments 6 4 i Dividends received 32 43 i Share of profits 35 46 i Disposal of joint venture 1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates 2 At 30 June 173 164 i During the prior year, the Group disposed of its interest in MUTV Limited.
Included in share of profits for the year is a profit on disposal of 9 million.
Consideration received on the sale of 10 million is included within dividends received.
The Groups share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 26. a Investments in associates Representing a 100% share of two material associates, NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC, in aggregate: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 83 67 Current assets 236 241 Current liabilities 73 86 Shareholders equity 246 222 Groups share of shareholders equity 52 47 Consolidation and other adjustments 80 82 Investment in associates 132 129 Revenue 323 325 Profit from continuing operations 106 107 b Investments in joint ventures Representing the Groups share of each joint venture: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 26 19 Current assets 66 71 Current liabilities 74 32 Non-current liabilities 1 40 Shareholders equity 17 18 Revenue 93 90 Expense 77 70 Taxation 3 5 Share of profit from joint ventures 13 15 The aggregate carrying amount of the investments in joint ventures and associates that are not individually material for the Group is 41 million as at 30 June 2014 2013: 35 million.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 105 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Available-for-sale investments 2014 2013 m m Investment in ITV at cost 946 946 Impairment of ITV investment 807 807 Realised gain on ITV investment 115 115 Part disposal of ITV investment 196 196 Unrealised gain on ITV investment 456 351 ITV investment 514 409 Other investments 19 13 533 422 On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITV, for a total consideration of 946 million including fees and taxes.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised impairment losses in the years ended 30 June 2008 and 30 June 2009, the first of which was recorded at 31 December 2007 due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
The latest impairment loss was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009 bringing the cumulative impairment loss to 807 million.
In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Groups investment in ITV.
The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITV shares at 48.5 pence per share resulted in aggregate consideration of 196 million.
A profit of 115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration above the impaired value of the shares.
The disposal was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption SSE and as such the SSE provisions prevented any capital loss arising for tax purposes.
At 30 June 2014 the Group held 7.23% of the shares in ITV.
On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares.
For further details refer to note 29.
The disposal of these shares in ITV will not be eligible for SSE but the gain on disposal of the shares will be covered by capital losses.
Deferred tax i Recognised deferred tax assets liabilities Share-based Financial Accelerated Short-term payments instruments tax temporary temporary temporary depreciation Tax losses differences differences differences Total m m m m m m At 1 July 2012 12 1 6 26 30 15 Charge credit to income 2 1 18 5 10 Credit to equity 6 18 24 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 12 Effect of change in tax rate Income 1 1 1 1 At 30 June 2013 1 5 49 16 37 Credit charge to income 4 1 18 1 14 Credit to equity 1 9 10 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Effect of change in tax rate Income 3 1 2 Equity 1 1 2 At 30 June 2014 4 4 28 6 30 Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 on the basis that, from managements current forecast of the Groups entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised.
Tax losses are treated as unrecognised deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise.
During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse.
The rate enacted or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 20% as at 30 June 2014 2013: 23%.
The rate is due to come into effect on 1 April 2015.
106 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets 52 70 Deferred tax liabilities 22 33 30 37 ii Unrecognised deferred tax assets 2014 2013 m m Tax losses arising from trading 245 271 Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments 283 323 528 594 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the losses.
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of 9 million 2013: 15 million principally arising from UK trading losses in the Group, has not been recognised.
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned.
There is currently insufficient evidence to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses.
The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of 236 million 2013: 256 million has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses on the basis that it is not probable that these temporary differences will be utilised.
These losses include 233 million 2013: 250 million with respect to the Groups German holding companys former investment in KirchPayTV and 3 million 2013: 6 million with respect to other subsidiaries.
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of 274 million 2013: 312 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Groups former investment in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2014, the Group also has capital losses with a tax value estimated to be 9 million 2013: 11 million including impairment of a football club and other investments, which have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
The capital losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
Inventories 2014 2013 m m Television programme rights 488 470 Set-top boxes and related equipment 50 70 Other inventories 8 8 Current inventory 546 548 Non-current programme distribution rights 20 17 Total inventory 566 565 At 30 June 2014, 81% 2013: 89% of the television programme rights and 100% 2013: 100% of set-top boxes and related equipment and other inventories is expected to be recognised in the income statement within 12 months.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 107 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 m m Gross trade receivables 235 163 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 95 89 Net trade receivables 140 74 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 7 8 Amounts receivable from other related parties 5 7 Prepayments 279 309 Accrued income 179 162 VAT 2 1 Other 23 30 Current trade and other receivables 635 591 Prepayments 4 6 Other receivables 3 11 Non-current trade and other receivables 7 17 Total trade and other receivables 642 608 Included within current trade and other receivables is nil 2013: nil which is due in more than one year.
The ageing of the Groups net trade receivables which are past due but not impaired is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Up to 30 days past due date 107 52 30 to 60 days past due date 4 5 60 to 120 days past due date 2 2 113 59 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
Trade receivables principally comprise amounts outstanding from subscribers, advertisers and other customers.
Provisions for doubtful debts 2014 2013 m m Balance at beginning of year 89 89 Amounts utilised 27 36 Provided during the year 33 36 Balance at end of year 95 89 108 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18.
Trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m i Trade payables 802 712 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 11 9 Amounts owed to other related parties 124 102 VAT 169 143 Accruals 747 685 Deferred income 318 295 Other 115 77 Current trade and other payables 2,286 2,023 Trade payables 23 18 Amounts owed to other related parties 10 Deferred income 5 9 Other 18 36 Non-current trade and other payables 56 63 Total trade and other payables 2,342 2,086 i Included within trade payables are 213 million 2013: 225 million of US dollar-denominated payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values.
Trade payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
Provisions Provided At Reclassified released Utilised At Provided Utilised 1 July during during At 1 July during during during 2012 the year the year the year 2013 the year the year 30 June m m m m 2014 m m m Current liabilities i 6 13 3 16 14 8 22 Restructuring provision ii Acquired and acquisition-related provisions 15 1 14 iii Customer-related provisions 47 6 41 39 2 iv Other provisions 22 17 17 19 37 6 19 24 43 16 63 28 94 20 66 48 Non-current liabilities v Other provisions 12 2 6 6 14 10 10 14 i These provisions significantly relate to costs incurred as part of corporate efficiency programmes.
ii These provisions arose on the acquisition of Amstrad which took place during the year ended 30 June 2008. iii These provisions are for those costs incurred in the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes and the programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
iv Included in other provisions are amounts provided for legal disputes and warranty liabilities.
v Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance.
The timing of the cash flows are dependent on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to August 2016.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 109 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings 2014 2013 m m Current borrowings ii Obligations under finance leases 11 11 Non-current borrowings i US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 434 496 i 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 404 i US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 442 498 i US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 353 404 i US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 466 520 i 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 i US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 201 225 Loan Notes repayable in December 2016 1 ii Obligations under finance leases 65 66 2,658 2,909 i Guaranteed Notes At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% N A 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,579 1,353 226 At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR 1.892% US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR 5.542% US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 3.226% N A 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 6.000% N A 1,579 1,353 226 110 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc: Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates Hedged Value Fixed Floating m m m Fixed Floating US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR 0.698% 400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR 0.229% US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 5.826% N A 1,028 721 307 Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging.
The Group has a Global Medium Term Note Programme the Programme, which provides the Group with a standardised documentation platform for senior debt issuance of up to 2.5 billion in the major global bond markets.
The 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the predecessor EMTN Programme.
ii Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 11 11 Between one and two years 12 11 Between two and three years 9 11 Between three and four years 9 8 Between four and five years 9 8 After five years 136 144 186 193 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 110 116 Present value of finance lease liabilities 76 77 The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to: a finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure.
During the year, repayments of 7 million 2013: 7 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039. b finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline.
During the year, repayments of 1 million 2013: 1 million were made against the lease.
A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020. c finance arrangements in connection with datacentre equipment.
During the year repayments of 3 million 2013: less than 1 million were made against the lease.
The lease bears interest at a rate of 3.6% and expires in June 2016. iii Revolving Credit Facility The Group has a 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2018, syndicated across 10 counterparty banks, each with a minimum credit rating of Baa1 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
At 30 June 2014, the RCF was undrawn 2013: undrawn.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested at the end of each six monthly period.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined in the loan agreements and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable as defined in the loan agreements.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 3.00:1 and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
iv Guarantees The following guarantees are in place relating to the Groups borrowings: a British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited, BSkyB Finance UK plc and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Companys 743 million RCF and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company: and b the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 111 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 77 767 108 851 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 72 661 36 503 166 1,117 47 Forward foreign exchange contracts 33 764 76 1,464 37 1,146 26 973 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Cross-currency swaps 21 353 59 390 67 353 15 390 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 217 4 262 1 114 1 49 Interest rate swaps 5 260 1 260 Total 210 3,022 175 2,619 380 3,841 42 1,459 The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m In one year or less 15 39 15 13 Between one and two years 43 25 15 6 Between two and five years 132 75 251 8 In more than five years 20 36 99 15 Total 210 175 380 42 The fair value of the Groups debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2014 was a 80 million net asset 2013: net asset of 327 million with net notional principal amounts totalling 1,957 million 2013: 1,957 million.
This comprised: net assets of 36 million designated as cash flow hedges 2013: net assets of 166 million, net assets of 77 million designated as fair value hedges 2013: net assets of 108 million and net liabilities of 33 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship 2013: net assets of 53 million.
At 30 June 2014, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss was nil 2013: nil.
The Group has entered into a collar arrangement to manage its exposure to movements in the value of certain available-for-sale investments over a period of up to 18 months and with a notional value of 22 million.
The collar instrument has not been designated for hedge accounting purposes, with movements in the fair value of the collar being taken to the income statement.
Hedge accounting classification and impact The Group has designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 30% 2013: 30% of the Groups debt portfolio.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated certain fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 45% 2013: 47% of the Groups debt portfolio.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Cash flows on the swaps occur semi-annually up to and inclusive of the relevant bond maturity disclosed in note 20.
During the current year, losses of 140 million were removed from the hedging reserve and charged to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt 2013: gains of 40 million.
The Group designates certain forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options collars as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign currency sales and purchases.
Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item is recognised.
If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement.
During the current year, gains of 7 million were removed from the hedging reserve and credited to operating expense in the income statement 2013: gains of 2 million.
Losses of 2 million were removed from the hedging reserve and debited to revenue in the income statement 2013: gains of 8 million.
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach.
The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of 1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year 2013: 2 million.
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within the range of 80% to 125%.
Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective 2013: no instances.
112 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial instruments a Carrying value and fair value The accounting classification of each class of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows: Total Held to Derivatives Derivatives in maturity Availabledeemed held hedging Loans and Other carrying Total fair receivables liabilities value value investments for-sale for trading relationships m m m m m m m m At 30 June 2014 Quoted bond debt 2,592 2,592 2,896 Derivative financial instruments 35 70 35 35 Trade and other payables 1,788 1,788 1,788 Provisions 45 45 45 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 77 77 77 Available-for-sale investments 533 533 533 Trade and other receivables 349 349 349 Short-term deposits 295 295 295 Cash and cash equivalents 300 782 1,082 1,082 At 30 June 2013 Quoted bond debt 2,843 2,843 3,185 Derivative financial instruments 53 285 338 338 Trade and other payables 1,567 1,567 1,567 Provisions 74 74 74 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 77 77 77 Available-for-sale investments 422 422 422 Trade and other receivables 278 278 278 Short-term deposits 595 595 595 Cash and cash equivalents 65 750 815 815 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices: The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates: and The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations as at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months from inception.
Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAAm rated money market funds which can be withdrawn without notice.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 113 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued b Fair value hierarchy The following table categorises the Groups financial instruments which are held at fair value into one of three levels to reflect the degree to which observable inputs are used in determining their fair values: Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m At 30 June 2014 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 514 514 Other investments 19 4 15 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 82 82 Cross-currency swaps 93 94 Forward foreign exchange contracts 35 34 Total 743 518 210 15 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 95 95 Forward foreign exchange contracts 80 80 Total 175 175 At 30 June 2013 Financial assets Available-for-sale financial instruments ITV investment 409 409 Other investments 13 13 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 109 109 Cross-currency swaps 233 233 Forward foreign exchange contracts 38 38 Total 802 409 380 13 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Cross-currency swaps 15 15 Forward foreign exchange contracts 27 27 Total 42 42 Level 1 Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
Derivative financial instrument fair values are present values determined from future cash flows discounted at rates derived from market source data.
Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Certain of the Groups available-for-sale financial assets are held at fair value and are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
114 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates 22.
Financial risk management at 30 June 2014, and if all other variables were held constant: Group Treasury activity The Groups profit for the year ended 30 June 2014 would increase The Groups Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for the or decrease by 8 million 2013: profit for the year would increase Groups operations, together with associated liquidity management or decrease by 9 million.
The year-on-year movement is driven and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks.
by a decrease in the cash balance held.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 6 million and guidelines authorised and reviewed annually by both the Audit 2013: decrease or increase by 15 million, arising from movements Committee and the Board, which receive regular updates of Treasury in cash flow hedges.
Derivative instruments are transacted for risk management purposes only.
It is the Groups policy that all hedging is to cover A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken.
Regular and a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions give sensitivities at different interest rates.
and exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should periodic review by the Groups internal audit team.
be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily The Groups principal market risks are exposures to changes in interest indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the Groups the Groups actual exposure to market rates changes as the Groups sources of finance and its operations.
Following evaluation of those portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.
market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable instruments to manage these exposures.
The principal instruments on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks, interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating and cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations to hedge transactional and translational currency exposures.
are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest rates, arising primarily from the Groups long-term bonds and other A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap arrangements borrowings.
The Groups hedging policy requires that between 50% is used to convert the Groups US dollar denominated debt and and 85% of borrowings are held at fixed rates.
This is achieved by associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling, at fixed issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rate swaps to adjust exchange rates.
At 30 June 2014, the split of the Groups aggregate the balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
The Groups bank borrowings into their core currencies was US dollar 71% and pounds debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, means that the mix of fixed sterling 29% 2013: US dollar 73% and pounds sterling 27%.
At 30 June and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore managed to ensure 2014, 100% of the Groups long-term borrowings, after the impact of compliance with the Groups hedging policy.
At 30 June 2014, 80% derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling.
of borrowings were held at fixed rates after hedging 2013: 80%.
The Groups revenues and operating expenses are substantially The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollar-denominated denominated in pounds sterling.
A small proportion of operating debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion of see section on foreign exchange risk for further detail.
At 30 June revenues is denominated in euros.
In the current year, approximately 2014, the Group had no net US dollar denominated interest rate 16% of operating expenses 1,043 million was denominated in US exposure on its borrowings.
dollars 2013: approximately 10% 614 million and 5% of revenues 393 million was denominated in euros 2013: 5% 392 million.
The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk.
Movements in the fair value of the hedged The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Groups programming exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which set-top box costs.
The euro revenues primarily relate to subscribers are also taken to the income statement.
Any hedge ineffectiveness located in Ireland.
The Groups exposure to euro-denominated revenue is recognised directly in the income statement.
In the year ended is offset to a certain extent by euro-denominated costs, related mainly 30 June 2014, this amounted to 1 million 2013: 2 million.
to certain transponder costs: the net position being a euro surplus 2013: surplus.
At 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013, the Groups annual finance costs would be unaffected by any change to the Groups credit The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and eurorating in either direction.
denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward foreign exchange contracts purchased up to five years ahead of the cash flow.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the whole year.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 115 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would 22.
Financial risk management continued have the effect of increasing profit by 25 million 2013: increasing It is the Groups policy that all anticipated foreign currency exposures profit by 34 million of which gains of 27 million relate to non-cash are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur.
movements in the valuation of derivatives 2013: gains of 38 million.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity At 30 June 2014, the Group had purchased forward foreign exchange of 479 million 2013: beneficial impact of 395 million.
contracts representing up to: A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have Approximately 95% of US dollar-denominated costs falling the effect of increasing profit by 2 million 2013: decreasing profit due within one year 2013: 90%, and approximately 80% by 1 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements of US dollar-denominated costs falling due within five years in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have 2013: approximately 80% which are hedged via: a beneficial impact on other equity of 155 million 2013: beneficial Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, impact of 157 million.
US$2,358 million 2013: US$1,926 million at an average A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have rate of US$1.60 to 1.00 2013: US$1.56 to 1.00. the effect of decreasing profit by 3 million 2013: increasing profit Approximately 95% of net euro-denominated revenues falling by 1 million.
None of this amount relates to non-cash movements due within one year 2013: approximately 95%, and approximately in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have 80% of net euro-denominated revenues falling due within four an adverse impact on other equity of 259 million 2013: adverse years 2013: approximately 80% which are hedged via: impact of 262 million.
Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, 1,078 million The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should 2013: 1,039 million at an average rate of 1.18 to 1.00 be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 2013: 1.19 to 1.00. indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the Groups actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, 111 million as the Groups portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts 2013: 119 million at an average rate of 1.18 to 1.00 2013:1.16 changes.
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market to 1.00. variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering Two forward foreign exchange contracts fall due beyond five years interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating 2013: none.
actions that would be taken by the Group.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
accounting purposes: Forward foreign exchange contracts.
Hedge accounting Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above interest rate.
outline the Groups policies regarding use of derivative products.
Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts during the year are provided in note 21. is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the income statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement Credit risk in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of less than 1 million was recognised The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting in the income statement during the year 2013: 1 million.
to invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits, and the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and US dollar pound sterling cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar This risk is deemed to be low.
Counterparty risk forms a central part denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt.
The interest of the Groups Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures cross-currency swaps are not designated as hedging instruments across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their exposure to any individual counterparty was 7% of the total asset value are recorded directly in the income statement.
value of instruments at the end of the year.
Treasury policies ensure that all derivative transactions are only effected with strong Foreign exchange sensitivity relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a minimum credit rating of Baa1 or equivalent from Standard & Poors.
To mitigate The following analyses details the Groups sensitivity to movements remaining risks, counterparty credit and sovereign ratings are closely in pounds sterling against those currencies in which it has significant monitored, and no more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes foreign currency single bank counterparty with the exception of overnight deposits denominated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and which are invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of in foreign currency rates.
credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil 2013: nil.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing have the effect of reducing profit by 15 million 2013: reducing profit and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for by 21 million, of which losses of 16 million relate to non-cash over 99% of our residential customer base.
The Groups maximum movements in the valuation of derivatives 2013: losses of 23 million.
exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other as disclosed in note 17. equity of 288 million 2013: adverse impact of 237 million.
116 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Liquidity risk Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, combined with access to a 743 million RCF, which expires in October 2018.
At 30 June 2014, this facility was undrawn 30 June 2013: undrawn.
To ensure continuity of funding, the Groups policy is to ensure that available funding matures over a period of years.
At 30 June 2014, 29% 2013: 40% of the Groups total available funding including available undrawn amounts on our RCF was due to mature in more than five years.
Full details of the Groups borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 20, other than trade and other payables, shown in note 18, and provisions, shown in note 19.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2014 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 112 541 1,002 947 Bonds GBP 41 41 500 444 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 12 27 139 Trade and other payables 1,686 99 3 Provisions 35 8 2 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 30 24 41 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,356 1,129 1,867 960 Inflow 1,327 1,121 1,865 955 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2013 Non derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 125 125 1,291 1,490 Bonds GBP 41 41 500 462 Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 11 27 144 Trade and other payables 1,457 107 3 Provisions 66 4 1 3 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 32 32 65 6 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 1,020 760 1,687 1,381 Inflow 1,028 775 1,876 1,417 Capital Risk Management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital.
The Group monitors its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade credit rating BBBor better from Standard & Poors and Baa3 or better from Moodys.
The Groups current ratings are BBB Standard & Poors and Baa1 Moodys.
The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA.
Net Debt is defined as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding derivatives.
Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 3.00:1 and an EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio at above 3.50:1 under the terms of its RCF.
The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2014, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 0.7:1 2013: 0.7:1, and the EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio was 13.3:1 2013: 13.4:1.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 117 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share capital 2014 2013 m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p 1,562,885,017 2013: 1,593,905,182 781 797 2014 2013 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares Allotted and fully paid during the year Beginning of year 1,593,905,182 1,674,454,881 Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled 31,020,165 80,549,699 End of year 1,562,885,017 1,593,905,182 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment.
Full details of the Companys share buy-back programme are provided in note 24.
Share option and contingent share award schemes The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes the Schemes for certain employees.
The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the number of newly issued shares which have been allocated in the previous ten years under the Schemes and any other employee share scheme adopted by the Company, exceed such number as represents five per cent of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that day.
In determining this limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was released, lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise.
Options and awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall within these headroom limits.
The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows: 2014 2013 Number of Number of ordinary ordinary shares shares i Executive Share Option Scheme options 147,020 931,247 ii Sharesave Scheme options 7,976,924 7,159,954 iii Management LTIP awards 16,056,961 24,365,112 iv LTIP awards 5,575,000 8,844,132 v Management Co-Investment LTIP awards 2,065,719 1,975,705 vi Co-Investment LTIP awards 2,235,172 2,068,175 34,056,796 45,344,325 i Executive Share Option Scheme options All Executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 have vested.
No options have been granted under the scheme since 2004.
Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of options being equal to the Companys share price on the date of grant.
For those options with performance conditions, growth in EPS had to exceed growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum in order for awards to vest.
Options vested on an accelerated basis over a period of up to four years from the date of grant.
The contractual life of all Executive Share Option Scheme options is ten years.
ii Sharesave Scheme options All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be exercised within six months of the relevant award vesting date.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees.
Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
iii Management LTIP awards All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
Awards exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of market-purchased shares.
iv LTIP awards All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
118 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced option, and are satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
For awards made in 2008 and 2009 i. e. awards that vested in 2011, 30% of the award vested dependent on TSR performance over a three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vested dependent on performance against operational targets.
The TSR performance targets were not applicable to awards made between July 2010 and March 2012 but have been re-introduced for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
v Management Co-Investment LTIP awards All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP.
Awards under this scheme mirror the Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
vi Co-Investment LTIP awards All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met.
Awards granted under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
Employees who participate in the plan are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Companys shares.
The investment will be matched up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards Senior Management Schemes have been aggregated.
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was 8.48 2013: 7.79, for those exercised under the Sharesave Scheme it was 8.82 2013: 8.19, and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was 8.40 2013: 7.60.
The middle-market closing price of the Companys shares at 27 June 2014 was 8.93 28 June 2013: 7.92.
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2014: Senior management Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 25,932,852 6.0 25,932,852 6.0 3.00 4.00 28,381 0.1 28,381 0.1 4.00 5.00 339,644 1.1 339,644 1.1 5.00 6.00 147,020 0.1 3,239,353 2.0 3,386,373 1.9 6.00 7.00 4,369,546 3.1 4,369,546 3.1 147,020 0.1 7,976,924 2.5 25,932,852 6.0 34,056,796 5.2 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 119 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share capital continued The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2013: Senior management Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme Schemes Total Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average remaining remaining remaining remaining contractual contractual contractual contractual life life life life Range of exercise prices Number Years Number Years Number Years Number Years 0.00 1.00 37,253,124 5.9 37,253,124 5.9 3.00 4.00 410,643 1.1 410,643 1.1 4.00 5.00 440,134 1.7 440,134 1.7 5.00 6.00 485,586 1.1 4,387,409 2.6 4,872,995 2.5 6.00 7.00 444,163 0.2 1,921,768 3.5 2,365,931 2.9 7.00 8.00 1,498 0.7 1,498 0.7 931,247 0.7 7,159,954 2.7 37,253,124 5.9 45,344,325 5.3 The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 was between nil and 6.82 2013: nil and 7.16.
For those awards outstanding under the Executive Scheme it was between 5.03 and 5.39 2013: 5.03 and 7.16 : for those outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme it was between 3.72 and 6.82 2013: 3.72 and 6.08 and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil 2013: nil.
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013: 2014 2013 Average Average remaining Weighted remaining Weighted contractual average contractual average Options life of exercise Options life of exercise exercisable exercisable price exercisable exercisable price at 30 June options at 30 June options Executive Scheme 147,020 0.1 5.03 931,247 0.7 5.79 Sharesave Scheme 78,668 0.1 4.95 97,457 0.1 4.49 Senior Management Schemes 872,229 3.5 0.00 663,972 3.7 0.00 1,097,917 2.8 1.03 1,692,676 1.8 3.45 Information for awards granted during the year The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was 5.53 2013: 5.16.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for awards which have market-based performance conditions, where a Monte-Carlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share.
The fair value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Companys share price and those of all other companies to which the Companys performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price, over a period equal to the expected life of the options.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
i Sharesave Scheme The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Scheme, as estimated at the date of grant, was 1.89 2013: 1.51.
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2014 2013 Share price 8.70 7.51 Exercise price 6.82 6.08 Expected volatility 22% 24.0% Expected life 4.0 years 4.0 years Expected dividends 3.3% 3.4% Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 0.4% 120 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements ii Senior management Schemes The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated at the date of grant, was 6.62 2013: 5.66.
The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using a Monte-Carlo simulation model.
Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share.
For all other awards, fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values: 2014 2013 Share price 8.28 7.16 Exercise price 0.00 0.00 Expected volatility 19.1% 6.3% Expected life 2.1 years 3.0 years Expected dividends 3.3% 3.6% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 0.0% 24.
Shareholders equity 2014 2013 m m Share capital 781 797 Share premium 1,437 1,437 ESOP reserve 145 147 Hedging reserve 20 11 Available-for-sale reserve 455 351 Other reserves 455 439 Retained earnings 1,891 1,876 1,072 1,012 Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation On 1 November 2012, at the Companys AGM, the Company was granted the authority to return 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme the November 2012 Authority.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. formerly known as News Corporation and others dated 28 July 2012 whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to those market purchases.
The price payable to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would be the price payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases the 2012 Share Buy-back Agreement.
At the Companys AGM on 22 November 2013, the Company was granted the authority to return a further 500 million of capital to shareholders via a share buy-back programme the November 2013 Authority.
This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and others dated 25 July 2013 on substantially the same terms as the 2012 Share Buy-back Agreement.
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 31,020,165 ordinary shares at an average price of 8.53 per share, with a nominal value of 16 million, for a consideration of 266 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 1 million.
This represents 2% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period.
Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586 ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc at an average price of 8.53 per share, with a nominal value of 6 million, for a consideration of 104 million.
Consideration included stamp duty of 1 million.
During the prior year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 80,549,699 ordinary shares at an average price of 7.75 per share, with a nominal value of 40 million, for a consideration of 627 million.
Consideration included stamp duty and commission of 3 million.
This represents 5% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period.
Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 31,525,314 ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. at an average price of 7.75 per share, with a nominal value of 16 million, for a consideration of 245 million.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 121 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Shareholders equity continued The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Groups ESOP, during the fiscal year.
Capital Capital Total capital Total capital authorised to authorised to returned returned be returned be returned under the under the under the under the Total Average November November November November number of price paid 2012 2013 2012 2013 shares per share Authority Authority Authority Authority i i i i ii i purchased m m m m July 61 August 20,824,829 8.38 17 44 September 815,530 8.54 44 October 44 November 5,464,285 8.31 33 12 488 December 6,458,989 8.03 52 436 January 196,152 8.25 2 434 February 4,250,710 8.80 37 397 March 1,694,462 9.17 16 381 April 3,560,001 8.93 32 349 May 5,482,357 8.72 48 301 June 1,807,361 8.71 16 285 Total for the year ended 30 June 2014 50,554,676 8.48 50 215 285 i All share purchases are included in the month of settlement.
ii The November 2012 Authority expired on 22 November 2013.
Accordingly, no more repurchases can take place under this authority.
Share premium and special reserve On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Companys share premium account of 1,120 million, as approved by the Companys shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003.
This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve deficit at 30 June 2003.
As part of the application, the Companys balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented.
At that date, the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by 14 million since 30 June 2003, to 1,106 million.
As a condition of the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of 1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003.
The excess of 14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves, and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors as at 10 December 2003 are paid.
ESOP reserve The cost of the Companys ordinary shares held by the Groups ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders equity.
The movement in the ESOP reserve was as follows: Number of Average ordinary price paid shares per share m At 1 July 2012 16,293,345 6.85 112 Share options exercised during the year 4,765,922 7.14 34 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 9,000,000 7.69 69 At 30 June 2013 20,527,423 7.15 147 Share options exercised during the year 22,752,935 7.27 166 Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 19,534,511 8.40 164 At 30 June 2014 17,308,999 8.40 145 Hedging reserve Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement.
In addition, deferred taxation relating to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 30 June 2014, the Groups available-for-sale reserve was 455 million 2013: 351 million.
122 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Other reserves The Groups other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.
The capital redemption reserve was 190 million as at 30 June 2014 2013: 174 million.
The merger reserve was 222 million as at 30 June 2014 2013: 222 million.
The special reserve was 14 million as at 30 June 2014 2013: 14 million.
The foreign currency translation reserve was 29 million as at 30 June 2014 2013: 29 million.
Merger reserve The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent companys balance sheet.
In preparing consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account.
This merger reserve was retained upon transition to IFRS, as allowed under UK law.
The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
BiB was purchased between 28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company.
At 30 June 2014, the Groups merger reserve was 222 million 2013: 222 million.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 1,082 1,257 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 208 176 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 228 202 Share-based payment expense 60 80 Net finance costs 114 80 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 35 46 1,657 1,749 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 28 35 Increase in inventories 93 Increase in trade and other payables 183 136 Decrease increase in provisions 47 52 Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments 4 2 Cash generated from operations 1,769 1,877 26.
Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees a Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements Year Year Year Year Year ending ending ending ending ending Total at Total at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June After 5 30 June 30 June 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years 2014 2013 m m m m m m m m Television programme rights 1,482 1,374 569 410 197 369 4,401 4,763 Set-top boxes and related equipment 180 180 202 i Third party payments 65 58 28 4 155 189 ii Transponder capacity 78 75 71 64 64 167 519 634 Property, plant and equipment 36 36 17 iii Intangible assets 31 26 24 18 5 104 112 iii Smartcards 41 42 42 43 10 178 232 Other 236 121 99 53 5 7 521 574 2,149 1,696 833 592 281 543 6,094 6,723 Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
i The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the Group to retail and commercial subscribers Sky Distributed Channels.
ii Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the SES satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators.
iii Commitments in relation to the provision of smartcards.
Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets.
The amounts included above are the expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 123 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued b Contingencies and guarantees Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements.
Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in accordance with the funding agreements.
The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding agreements, is 17 million 2013: 25 million.
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 20.
Ofcom determination Included within direct networks costs for the year ended 30 June 2013 is a credit of 32 million in relation to a credit note received from BT following an Ofcom determination in 2012, which required BT to repay monies to Sky for overcharged-for Ethernet services backhaul between 2006 07 and 2009 10 2013: 32 million.
Sky, BT and others have appealed Ofcoms determination in the CAT.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 47 49 Between one and two years 41 42 Between two and three years 41 35 Between three and four years 21 37 Between four and five years 14 18 After five years 33 45 197 226 The majority of operating leases relate to property.
The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 1 2 Between one and two years 2 Between two and three years 2 Between three and four years 2 Between four and five years 1 After five years 5 1 14 Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders a Entities with joint control or significant influence During the year the Group conducted business transactions with companies that form part of the Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. group, a major shareholder in the Company.
Transactions with related parties and amounts outstanding in relation to those transactions and with related parties at 30 June are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Supply of goods or services by the Group 82 89 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 127 156 Amounts owed to the Group 5 7 Amounts owed by the Group 134 102 At 30 June 2014 the Group had expenditure commitments of 99 million in relation to transactions with related parties 2013: 97 million all of which related to minimum television programming rights commitments.
Goods and services supplied During the year, the Group supplied set-top boxes, programming, airtime, transmission, marketing, consultancy services, customer relationship management services and a licence to use the Sky brand to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. companies.
124 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders continued Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships During the year, the Group purchased programming and technical and marketing services from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. companies.
There is an agreement between Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and the Group, pursuant to which it was agreed that, for so long as Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. will not engage in the business of satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
Share buy-back programme During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586 ordinary shares held by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. as part of its share buy-back programme.
For further details, see note 24. b Joint ventures and associates Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
2014 2013 m m Supply of services by the Group 19 22 Purchases of goods or services by the Group 66 66 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 8 9 Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates by the Group 11 9 Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services.
Purchases represent fees payable for channel carriage.
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates include 1 million 2013: 1 million relating to loan funding.
These loans bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 1%.
The maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint ventures and associates during the year was 1 million 2013: 7 million.
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture AETN UK.
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with AETN UK in respect of these forward contracts.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or losses on these forward contracts.
The face value of forward exchange contracts with AETN UK that had not matured as at 30 June 2014 was 4 million 2013: 8 million.
During the year, US$4 million 2013: US$4 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and less than US$1 million 2013: US$nil was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 3 million 2013: 2 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and 5 million 2013: 3 million was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, 5 million 2013: 4 million was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and less than 1 million 2013: nil was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
At 30 June 2014 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments of 3 million 2013: 4 million with its joint ventures and associates.
c Other transactions with related parties A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud Communications Limited Freud, which has provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Group.
During the year the Group incurred expenditure amounting to 1 million 2013: 1 million with Freud.
At 30 June 2014 there was 1 million 2013: less than 1 million due to Freud.
In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Companys Directors are also directors.
These do not meet the definition of related party transactions.
d Key management The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Company.
At 30 June 2014, there were 15 2013: 14 members of key management all of whom were Directors of the Company.
Key management compensation is disclosed in note 6b.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 125 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Events after the reporting period On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration of approximately 481 million.
The Company announced on 25 July 2014 that it has conditionally entered into share purchase agreements the Acquisition Agreements with Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries to acquire its 100% stake in Sky Italia Srl and its 57.4% stake in Sky Deutschland A. G. The Company further announced its intention to make a voluntary cash offer the Offer to the minority shareholders of Sky Deutschland A. G. The Acquisition Agreements and the Offer together the Transactions are conditional on, amongst other things, their approval by the Companys independent shareholders and regulatory clearances.
The total consideration for the acquisition of Sky Italia is 2.45 billion with approximately 2.07 billion to be paid in cash and the balance to be satisfied through the transfer of the Groups 21% stake in National Geographic Channel to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. 21CF.
The acquisition of 21CFs shareholding in Sky Deutschland A. G. is for a consideration of 2.9 billion in cash, valuing Sky Deutschland at 6.75 a share.
Subject to the number of Sky Deutschland A. G. minority shareholders that accept the Offer, the total consideration for the transaction will range from 2.9 billion to 5 billion.
The total consideration payable for the Transactions will be funded in part by the proceeds of a placing of 156,132,213 new Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 9.99% of the existing issued share capital of the Company, to both existing and new institutional investors, which was also announced on 25 July 2014.
21CF, which has a 39.14% shareholding in the Company, has undertaken to subscribe for 61,106,496 of the shares being placed so as to maintain its existing percentage shareholding in the Company following completion of the placing.
The remaining consideration will come from a combination of new debt facilities as described below and cash resources.
On 25 July 2014, the Company entered into a facilities agreement the Facilities Agreement documenting a committed bridge loan facility 4.00 billion Term Loan A, a term loan facility of 450 million and 2.5 billion Term Loan B and a revolving loan facility of 1 billion the RCF.
The Facilities Agreement is unsecured but is guaranteed by various of the Companys subsidiaries.
Term Loan A matures 12 months after the date of the Facilities Agreement subject to an option, at the Companys discretion, to extend for a further one-year period.
Term Loan B matures 36 months after the date of the Facilities Agreement with a one-year extension period available at the discretion of the lenders.
The RCF matures on 30 November 2019, subject to two one-year extension options at the discretion of the lenders.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the Facilities Agreement, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio which are tested at the end of each six monthly period beginning on 30 June 2015.
The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA each as defined in the Facilities Agreement and EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Charges as defined in the Facilities Agreement.
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.00:1 until 30 June 2016 and thereafter no more than 3.50:1.
EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Charges must be at least 3.50:1.
Term Loan A and Term Loan B are available to be used to fund, among other things, the consideration payable under the Acquisition Agreements and the consideration payable to the minority shareholders of Sky Deutschland A. G. pursuant to the Offer.
126 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.
Group investments The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows: Country of Description and proportion Name incorporation of shares held % Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company British Sky Broadcasting Limited United Kingdom 10,002,002 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland BSkyB Finance UK plc United Kingdom 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Finance company Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Sky Subscribers Services Limited United Kingdom 3 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of ancillary functions supporting the pay television broadcasting, residential broadband and telephone operations of the Group Sky Holdings Limited United Kingdom 600 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company Sky In-Home Service Limited United Kingdom 1,576,000 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Supply, installation and maintenance of satellite television receiving equipment, broadband and wireless connector equipment BSkyB Telecommunications United Kingdom 5,821,764 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Management of the network assets in the UK Services Limited Sky Ventures Limited United Kingdom 912 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Holding company The Cloud Networks Limited United Kingdom 30,583,988 shares of 0.00025 per share 100% Provision of telecommunications Hestview Limited United Kingdom 108 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of sports betting activities Bonne Terre Limited Alderney 2,504 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of gaming activities Sky Home Communications Limited United Kingdom 9,528,124 ordinary shares of 1 each 100% Provision of residential broadband and telephone operations Joint ventures and associates: ii Nickelodeon UK Limited United Kingdom 104 B Shares of 0.01 each 40% Transmission of childrens television channels AETN UK United Kingdom 50,000 A Shares of 1 each 50% Transmission of history, crime and investigation television programming and the Lifetime Channel ii iii Paramount UK Partnership United Kingdom Partnership interest 25% Transmission of general entertainment comedy channels Australian News Channel Pty Australia 1 ordinary share of AUD$1 33.33% Transmission of news and business channels Limited NGC Network International LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure America channels NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of Partnership interest 21% Transmission of natural history and adventure America channels i Attheraces Holdings Limited United Kingdom 1,502 ordinary shares of 1 each 45.9%, Transmission of a horse racing channel and 20 Recoupment Shares of 0.55 each related online activities Sky News Arabia FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates 26,666,666 shares of US$1 each 50% Transmission of Arabic News in the MENA region Middle East and North Africa Investments: iv ITV plc United Kingdom 291,684,730 ordinary shares of 0.10 each 7.23% Transmission of free-to-air channels i These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
ii These entities have an accounting reference date of 30 September.
iii The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London W1D 1DS.
The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1 c ii.
Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption within the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 regulation 7 from filing annual financial statements.
iv On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares.
For further details refer to note 29. v This note sets out an abbreviated list of the subsidiaries of the Company.
A full list will be filed with Companies House in accordance with section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
The following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year period ended 30 June 2014 by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: BSkyB Finance Limited 02906994, Kidsprog Limited 02767224, Parthenon Media Group Limited 06944197, SATV Publishing Limited 01085975, Sky IP International Limited 07245844 and Sky Television Limited 01518707.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 127 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements Company Income Statement for the year ended 30 June 2014 2014 2013 Notes m m Revenue 225 214 Operating expense 44 40 Operating profit 181 174 Dividend income from subsidiaries O 622 947 Investment income B 64 58 Finance costs B 81 61 Profit before tax C 786 1,118 Taxation D 36 30 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 750 1,088 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 30 June 2014 2014 2013 m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 750 1,088 Other comprehensive income Amounts recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be recycled to the income statement Loss gain on cash flow hedges 79 3 Tax on cash flow hedges 18 1 61 2 Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement Gain loss on cash flow hedges 97 28 Tax on cash flow hedges 22 7 75 21 Other comprehensive income loss for the year net of tax 14 19 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 764 1,069 All results relate to continuing operations.
128 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Company Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2014 2014 2013 Notes m m Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries E 8,146 8,143 Other receivables G 2 3 Derivative financial assets J 175 341 8,323 8,487 Current assets Other receivables G 3,008 2,967 Cash and cash equivalents 1 3,009 2,967 Total assets 11,332 11,454 Current liabilities Other payables I 3,613 3,434 Non-current liabilities Borrowings H 1,557 1,718 Derivative financial liabilities J 156 176 Deferred tax liabilities F 4 1 1,717 1,895 Total liabilities 5,330 5,329 Share capital L 781 797 Share premium L 1,437 1,437 Reserves 3,784 3,891 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 6,002 6,125 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 11,332 11,454 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Company Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 June 2014 2014 2013 Notes m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations M Net cash from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the exercise of share options 11 15 Loan to subsidiaries 10 16 Net cash from used in financing activities 1 1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 129 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements continued Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 30 June 2014 Capital Total Share Share Special redemption Capital ESOP Hedging Retained Shareholders capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 July 2012 837 1,437 14 134 844 112 6 2,944 6,104 Profit for the year 1,088 1,088 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 25 25 Tax on items taken directly to equity 6 6 Total comprehensive income for the year 19 1,088 1,069 Share-based payment 35 61 26 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 40 40 617 617 Financial liability for close period purchases 16 16 Dividends 441 441 At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 14 174 844 147 13 3,019 6,125 Profit for the year 750 750 Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges 18 18 Tax on items taken directly to equity 4 4 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 750 764 Share-based payment 2 95 93 Share buy-back programme see note 24 : Purchase of own shares for cancellation 16 16 250 250 Financial liability for close period purchases 59 59 Dividends 485 485 At 30 June 2014 781 1,437 14 190 844 145 1 2,880 6,002 For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
Accounting policies British Sky Broadcasting Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
i Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set out in note 1 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
ii Revenue Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from the Companys operating activities.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The Companys main source of revenue is from licensing the Companys brand name asset to subsidiaries.
This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant licensing agreements.
iii Investment in subsidiaries An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision for impairment.
As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act 2006, where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number of the Companys shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
130 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements B.
Investment income and finance costs 2014 2013 m m Investment income Investment income from subsidiaries 64 58 2014 2013 m m Finance costs Interest payable and similar charges Revolving Credit Facility RCF 2 2 Guaranteed Notes see note H 80 76 82 78 Other finance income expense Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 16 Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 14 22 Gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 15 23 1 17 81 61 C. Profit before taxation Employee benefits The Company had nil employees 2013: nil during the year.
Key management compensation Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 59 to 76.
D. Taxation i Taxation recognised in the income statement 2014 2013 m m Current tax expense Current year 37 37 Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 Total current tax charge 37 26 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 4 Total deferred tax credit charge 1 4 Taxation 36 30 ii Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax charge credit on hedging activities 4 6 iii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax expense for the year is lower 2013: lower than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax in the UK 22.5% applied to profit before tax.
The differences are explained below: 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 786 1,118 Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.5% 2013: 23.75% 177 266 Effects of: Non-taxable income 140 225 Tax rate change 1 Over provision in respect of prior years 11 Taxation 36 30 All taxation relates to UK corporation tax.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 131 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements continued E. Investments in subsidiaries m Cost At 1 July 2012 9,277 Additions 573 Disposal 702 At 30 June 2013 9,148 Additions 3 At 30 June 2014 9,151 Provision At 1 July 2012, 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014 1,005 Carrying amounts At 1 July 2012 8,272 At 30 June 2013 8,143 At 30 June 2014 8,146 During the prior year, the Company purchased 100% of the share capital of BSkyB LLU Assets Limited from its direct subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc.
The Company subsequently transferred its investment in BSkyB LLU Assets Limited to its direct subsidiary British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
See note 30 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
F. Deferred tax Recognised deferred tax liabilities Financial instruments temporary differences m At 1 July 2012 3 Charge to income 4 Credit to equity 6 At 30 June 2013 1 Credit to income 1 Charge to equity 4 At 30 June 2014 4 At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of 244 million 2013: 278 million has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Groups holding in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable.
At 30 June 2014, the Company has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of 5 million 2013: 7 million relating to capital losses and provisions in respect of football club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
G. Other receivables 2014 2013 m m Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 3,008 2,966 Prepayments and other receivables 1 Current other receivables 3,008 2,967 Non-current prepayment 2 3 Total other receivables 3,010 2,970 On 26 November 2012, the Company issued US$800 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 3.125% and loaned proceeds to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
British Sky Broadcasting Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of 694 million to British Sky Broadcasting Limited which is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
In October 2009, the Company assigned 604 million of this loan to settle payables with BSkyB Finance Limited.
132 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 252 million to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of 91 million to Sky In-Home Service Limited.
This loan is repayable on demand and bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the proceeds to BSkyB Finance Limited.
BSkyB Finance Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into loan agreements with British Sky Broadcasting Limited for 143 million and 109 million, both bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%.
These loans are repayable on demand.
On 29 June 2008, Sky Ventures Limited transferred its 11 million loan receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.
This loan bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Finance Limited worth 40 million.
Amounts loaned under this facility bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and are repayable on demand.
On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned the proceeds to British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Companys credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables.
The majority of its other receivables balance is due from British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
The risk of this entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its successful operation of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings 2014 2013 m m Non-current borrowings US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 442 498 US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 353 404 US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 466 520 300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296 1,557 1,718 See note 20 for details of the Companys Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 22 for details of Capital Risk Management.
Other payables 2014 2013 m m Other payables Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,536 3,398 Amounts owed to other related parties 23 6 Other 36 10 Accruals 18 20 3,613 3,434 Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The balance comprises 2,164 million of non-interest bearing loans 2013: 1,898 million and 1,372 million of other payables 2013: 1,500 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables approximates their fair values.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 133 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements continued J. Derivatives and other financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Companys operations Quoted bond debt 1,557 1,740 1,718 1,915 Derivative financial instruments 19 19 165 165 Other payables and receivables 605 605 467 467 The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 21 and all items held at fair value are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional Fair Value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 51 452 65 505 Cash flow hedges Cross-currency swaps 45 290 36 503 86 746 47 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps 31 574 26 314 43 605 42 345 Cross-currency swaps 48 725 94 1,018 147 725 134 1,018 Total 175 2,041 156 1,835 341 2,581 176 1,410 Note 21 provides further details of the Groups derivative and other financial instruments.
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below: 2014 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Between one and two years 33 33 Between two and five years 122 67 242 112 In more than five years 20 56 99 64 Total 175 156 341 176 K. Financial risk management Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Companys sources of finance by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure.
The Company has also entered into derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk The following analysis details the Companys sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant transactions.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of 16 million 2013: adverse impact of 22 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other equity of 21 million 2013: adverse impact of 25 million.
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of 26 million 2013: beneficial impact of 36 million, relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives.
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity of 36 million 2013: beneficial impact of 42 million.
134 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Interest rate risk The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2014, and if all other variables were held constant, the Companys profit for the year ended 30 June 2014 would decrease or increase by 3 million 2013: decrease or increase by 3 million and other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 1 million 2013: decrease or increase by 4 million.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.
In addition, the Companys actual exposure to market rates changes as the Companys portfolio of debt changes.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Liquidity risk See note 22 for the Companys policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Companys non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 74 74 962 521 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 444 Other payables 3,613 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 15 15 36 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 63 62 930 560 Inflow 56 56 920 521 Between Between Less than one and two and More than 12 months two years five years five years m m m m At 30 June 2013 Non-derivative financial liabilities Bonds USD 83 83 740 999 Bonds GBP 18 18 54 462 Other payables 3,434 Net settled derivatives Financial assets 17 17 51 6 Gross settled derivatives Outflow 62 62 574 978 Inflow 63 63 682 926 At 30 June 2014, the Company had an undrawn 743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2018.
See note 20 for further information.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 135 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements continued L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve, see notes 23 and 24.
For details of the Companys share buy-back programmes, see note 24.
For details of dividends, see note 9.
Capital reserve This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
M. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 786 1,118 Dividend income 622 947 Net finance costs 17 3 Increase in other receivables 181 174 Cash generated from operations N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Groups investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due.
Several of these undertakings contain maximum financial limits.
These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory accounts of the related entity.
A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the Premier League by British Sky Broadcasting Limited covering the 2013 14 to 2015 16 football seasons.
In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the future due, owing or incurred by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred under the indemnity given to the Premier League by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Stanhope plc in relation to the construction of a new corporate headquarters at the Osterley Campus.
The guarantee covers all performance obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Groups borrowings, see note 20, and in relation to audit exemptions, see note 30.
Transactions with related parties and major shareholders 2014 2013 m m Supply of services to subsidiaries 225 214 Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 64 58 Amounts owed by subsidiaries 3,008 2,966 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 3,536 3,398 Amounts owed to other related parties 23 6 The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group.
In particular, it is normal treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required.
Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting Limited settled liabilities of 83 million 2013: 74 million on behalf of the Company during the year.
Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised 225 million 2013: 214 million for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling 622 million 2013: 947 million.
For further details, see note 24.
The Groups related party transactions are disclosed in note 28.
P. Events after the reporting period For details, see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
136 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
