06 Strategic report Our business model We manufacture, market and sell both Britvic and PepsiCo brands in Britvic is set apart from its GB and Ireland, supported by dedicated commercial teams in both countries.
In France, we manufacture, market and sell our own category competitors by our unrivalled leading brands, as well as supplying private label juice and syrups.
combination of market leading Internationally, we work primarily in partnership with local companies brands and track record in through franchise, distribution or licensing arrangements to exploit the global potential of our kids, family and adult brands.
In the USA, we innovation, our expert knowledge have agreements with a number of Pepsi bottlers and in India we are partnering with the Narang Group.
We also export Britvic products of the soft drinks market, long around the world and are a significant player in the travel sector.
standing and sustainable Our brands and innovations are built on the quality of our insight and relationships with our partners, understanding of the soft drinks markets in which we operate.
We are committed to building sustainable relationships with all our partners, including PepsiCo, and a highly from suppliers of raw materials through to the customers who sell our brands.
talented and committed We have developed an operating model which is based on the principles workforce.
of simplicity, focus and accountability, to ensure we are cost efficient and effective and can invest in the growth opportunities.
All of this allows us to deliver value to our shareholders, our customers and partners, the consumers who buy our brands, the communities in which we operate and to our employees.
BRITVIC GB, Ireland and France Raw materials Manufacturing Distribution Customers Consumers full goods BRITVIC PARTNER ACTIVITIES International franchise Manufacturing Transport to Raw materials Manufacturing Distribution Customers Consumers compound international full goods partner BRITVIC PARTNER ACTIVITIES International export Raw materials Manufacturing Export to Distribution Customers Consumers full goods international markets
