20 Strategic report Glossary Underlying fr ee cash flow is defined as net cash flow excluding Key performance indicators movements in borrowings, dividend payments and exceptional and V olume is defined as number of litres sold, excluding factored other items.
brands sold by Counterpoint in Ireland.
No volume is recorded in Gr oup adjusted net debt is defined as group net debt, adding back respect of international concentrate sales.
the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
ARP is defined as average r evenue per litre sold, excluding factored Retur n on invested capital ROIC is defined as operating profit after brands and concentrate sales.
applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and Gr oup revenue is defined as sales achieved by the group net of other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is price promotional investment and retailer discounts.
defined as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities Brand contribution is defined as r evenue less material costs and all and all other assets or liabilities associated with the financing and other marginal costs that management considers to be directly capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
brand specific advertising and promotion costs, raw materials, and marginal production and distribution costs.
Others Brand contribution margin is a per centage measure calculated as brand contribution, divided by revenue.
Each business units Wher e appropriate, comparisons are quoted using constant performance is reported down to the brand contribution level.
Constant currency change removes the impact of exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior Gr oup EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional and year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current other items and amortisation.
Only amortisation attributable to period exchange rates to aid comparability.
intangibles related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is 2.9m 2013: 2.9m as reported last year.
EBITA margin is All numbers quoted ar e pre-exceptional and other items, unless EBITA as a proportion of group revenues.
Gr oup EBIT is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items.
EBIT margin is EBIT as a proportion of group revenues.
Adjusted ear nings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 245.8m 2013: 243.2m.
Strategic r Strategic report eport Governance Financial statements Other information 21 making lifes everyday moments more enjoyable keeping fit
