Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 55.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec plc Interest Country of At 31 March Principal activity incorporation 2014 2013 Direct subsidiaries of Investec plc Investec 1 Limited Investment holding England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Holding Company Limited Investment holding England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Indirect subsidiaries of Investec plc Investec Asset Finance plc Leasing company England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Asset Finance & Leasing Pty Ltd Leasing company Australia 100.0% 100.0% formerly Alliance Equipment Finance Pty Ltd Investec Asset Management Limited Asset management England and Wales 85.0% 100.0% Investec Bank plc Banking institution England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Bank Australia Limited Banking institution Australia 100.0% 100.0% Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited Banking institution Guernsey 100.0% 100.0% Investec Bank Switzerland AG Banking institution Switzerland 100.0% 100.0% Investec Capital Asia Limited Investment banking Hong Kong 100.0% 100.0% Investec Capital & Investments Ireland Limited Financial services Ireland 100.0% 100.0% formerly NCB Stockbrokers Limited Investec Professional Finance Pty Ltd Financial services Australia 100.0% 100.0% formerlyInvestec Experien Pty Limited Investec Finance plc Debt issuer England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Group UK plc Holding company England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Group Investments UK Limited Investment holding England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Investec Investments UK Limited Investment holding England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% formerlyGuinness Mahon & Co Limited Investec Ireland Limited Financial services Ireland 100.0% 100.0% Investec Securities US LLC Financial services USA 100.0% 100.0% Investec Trust Holdings AG Investment holding Switzerland 100.0% 100.0% Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Stockbroking and England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% portfolio management Kensington Group plc Financial services England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Neontar Limited Holding company Ireland 100.0% 100.0% Reichmans Geneva SA Trade fi finance Switzerland 100.0% 100.0% Rensburg Sheppards plc Holding company England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% St James's Park Mortgage Funding Limited Financial services England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% Start Funding No 1 Limited Financial services Ireland 100.0% 100.0% Start Funding No 2 Limited Financial services Ireland 100.0% 100.0% 01 Williams fide Bro Limited Stockbroking and England and Wales 100.0% 100.0% portfolio management All of the above subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated accounts.
There have been no changes to the subsidiaries listed above as a result of the adoption of IFRS 10 as control over these entities continues to be demonstrated through the ownership of the majority of voting equity shares.
112 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 55.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec plc continued The company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing information only in relation to subsidiary undertakings whose results or fi financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the fi financial statements.
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings will be included in the next Investec plc annual return fi led with the Registrar of Companies.
Interest Country of At 31 March Principal activity incorporation 2014 2013 Principal associated company Hargreave Hale Limited Stockbroking and England and Wales 35.0% 35.0% portfolio management For more details on associated companies refer to note 29.
Consolidated structured entities Investec plc has no equity interest in the following structured entities which are consolidated.
Typically a structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control.
The judgements to assess whether the group has control over these structures include assessing the purpose and design of the entity, considering whether the group or another involved party with power over the relevant activities is acting as a principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others.
Name of principal structured entity Type of structured entity Bedrock CMBS GMBH Structured commercial real estate loan assets Foundation CMBS Limited Structured commercial real estate loan assets Gemgarto 2012-1 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Gemgarto 2011-1 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Glacier Securities Limited series 2010-2 Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Glacier Securities Limited series 2011-2 Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Gresham Capital CLO V BV Structured debt and loan portfolios Impala Trust No.
1 Sub Series 2 Securitised receivables Australia Impala Trust No.
1 Sub Series 2010-1 Securitised receivables Australia Impala Trust No.
1 Sub Series 2011-1 Securitised receivables Australia Impala Trust No.
1 Sub Series 2012-1 Securitised receivables Australia Kensington Mortgage Securities plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Landmark Mortgage Securities No 1 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Landmark Mortgage Securities No 2 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Landmark Mortgage Securities No 3 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Money Partners Securities 1 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Money Partners Securities 2 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Money Partners Securities 3 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Money Partners Securities 4 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Nyala Funding Trust CMBS 2013-1 Securitised receivables Australia Nyala Funding Trust No.
1 Securitised receivables Australia 01 Pangaea ABS 2007-1 BV Securitised debt and loan portfolios Residential Mortgage Securities 19 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Residential Mortgage Securities 20 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Residential Mortgage Securities 21 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Residential Mortgage Securities 22 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Residential Mortgage Securities 23 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Residential Mortgage Securities 26 plc Securitised Residential Mortgages UK Tamarin Securities Limited Structured debt and loan portfolios Temese Funding 1 plc Securitised receivables UK Yorker Trust Structured debt and loan portfolios Investec integrated annual report 2014 113 Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 55.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec plc continued For additional detail on the assets and liabilities arising on securitisation refer to note 28.
For details of the risks to which the group is exposed through all of its securitisations are included in the risk management report on page 48 to 51.
The key assumptions for the main types of structured entities which the group consolidates are summarised below: Securitised residential mortgages UK and Ireland The group has securitised residential mortgages in order to provide investors with exposure to residential mortgage risk and to raise funding.
These structured entities are consolidated due to the group's holdings of equity notes combined with its control over servicing activities.
Thegroup is not required to fund any losses above those incurred on the notes it has retained, such losses are refl ected in any impairment of securitised mortgages as those assets have not been derecognised.
Structured debt and loan portfolios The group has structured debt and loan portfolios for the purpose of issuing asset-backed securities.
These structured entities are consolidated due to the group's retention of equity notes and because it continues to act as the collateral manager.
The group is not required to fund any losses above those incurred on the notes it has retained.
Structured commercial real estate loan assets The group has securitised a number of commercial real estate loan assets.
These structured entities are consolidated as the group has retained all of the notes issued.
The group continues to recognise the commercial real estate loan assets on its balance sheet.
Securitised receivables UK and Australia The group has securitised a portfolio of medium-term lease and hire purchase receivables.
These structured entities are consolidated as the group has retained the equity notes and control over servicing activities.
Other structured entities commercial operations The group also consolidates a number of structured entities where control arises from rights attached to lending facilities and similar commercial involvement.
These arise primarily in the areas of aircraft funds where the group has rights which allow it to maximise the value of the assets held and investments in mining projects due to its exposure to equity like returns and ability to infl uence the strategic and fi financial decision-making.
The group is not required to fund any losses above those which could be incurred on debt positions held or swaps which exist with these structured entities.
The risks to which the group is exposed from these structured entities are related to the underlying assets held in the structures.
The total assets held in structured entities arising from commercial operations is 157.9 million.
Signifi cant restrictions As is typical for a large group of companies there are restrictions on the ability of the group to obtain distributions of capital, access the assets or repay the liabilities of members of the group due to the statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements of its subsidiaries.
Theseare considered below: Regulatory requirements Subsidiary companies are subject to prudential regulation and regulatory capital requirements in the countries in which they are regulated.
Theserequire entities to maintain minimum capital, leverage and exposure ratios restricting the ability of these entities 01 to make distributions of cash or other assets to the parent company.
Regulated subsidiaries of the group are required to maintain liquidity pools to meet PRA and local regulatory requirements.
The main subsidiaries affected are: Investec Bank plc, Investec Bank Australia Limited, Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited and Investec Bank Switzerland AG which must maintain compliance with the regulatory minimum.
Capital management within the group is discussed in the risk management report on page 84 to 85.
Statutory requirements The group's subsidiaries are subject to statutory requirements not to make distributions of capital and unrealised profi ts and generally maintain solvency.
These requirements restrict the ability of subsidiaries to remit dividends, except in the case of a legal capital reduction orliquidation.
114 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 55.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec plc continued Contractual requirements Asset encumbrance the group uses its fi financial assets to raise fi finance in the form of securitisations and through the liquidity schemes of central banks.
Once encumbered, the assets are not available for transfer around the group.
The assets typically affected are disclosed in note 20 and 58.
Structured associates The group has investments in a number of structured funds specialising in aircraft fi nancing where the group acts as adviser or fund manager in addition to holding units within the fund.
As a consequence of these roles and funding, the group has signifi cant infl uence over the fund and therefore the funds are treated as associates.
The group applies the venture capital exemption to these holdings and, as such, the investments in the funds are accounted for at fair value and held within the investment portfolio on the balance sheet.
Type of structured entity Nature and purpose Interest held by the group Aircraft investment funds To generate fees from managing assets on behalf Investments in units issued by the fund of third party investors These vehicles are fi nanced through the issue Management fees of units to investors The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the group in structured associate entities.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
Carrying 31 March 2014 value Maximum exposure Income earned from 000 Line on the balance sheet '000 to loss structured entity '000 Aircraft investment Investment portfolio 39 883 Limited to the Investment income 1825 funds carrying value Unconsolidated structured entities At 31 March 2014 The table below describes the types of structured entities that the group does not consolidate but in which it holds an interest and originally set up.
In making the assessment of whether to consolidate these structured entities, the group has concluded that it does not have control after consideration in line with the accounting policies as set out on pages 24 to 32.
Type of structured entity Nature and purpose Interest held by the group To generate fees from managing assets on behalf of Investment funds third party investors.
Investments in units issued by the fund These vehicles are fi nanced through the issue of units to investors Management fees Residential mortgage To generate a return for investors through providing securitisations exposure to residential mortgage risk Investments in notes 01 These vehicles are fi nanced through the issue of notes toinvestors.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests held by the group in unconsolidated structured entities.
Carrying Total assets Income earned 31 March 2014 Line on the balance value Maximum of the entity from structured 000 sheet 000 exposure to loss 000 entity 000 Limited to the Investment funds Investment portfolio 5568 carrying value 199946 Investment income 15139 Residential mortgage Limited to the securitisations Other debt securities 41791 carrying value 163829 Interest expense 1042 Investment expense 98 Investec integrated annual report 2014 115 Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 55.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec plc continued Financial support provided to the unconsolidated structured entity There are no contractual agreements which require the group to provide any additional fi financial or non-fi financial support to these structured entities.
During the year the group has not provided any such support and does not have any current intentions to do so in the future.
Sponsoring The group considers itself a sponsor of a structured entity when it facilitates the establishment of the structured entity.
Thetable below sets out information in respect of structured entities that the group sponsors, but in which the group does nothave an interest.
Structured entities with no interest held Residential mortgage securitisations Why it is considered a structured entity These are residential mortgage securitisations where Investec has no continuing interest as the notes previously held have been redeemed or fully written off.
The entities are considered structured as the vehicles are set up so that the variable returns do not follow the shareholding.
Income amount and type Mortgage manager fees of 83 000 per annum Carrying amount of all assets transferred 269 million of mortgage assets Interests in structured entities which the group has not set up Purchased securitisation positions The group buys and sells interest in structured entities that it has not originated as part of its trading activities, for example, residential mortgage securities, commercial mortgage securities, loans to corporates and resecuritisations.
In such cases, the group typically has no other involvement with the structured entity other than the securities it holds as part of its trading activities and its maximum exposure to loss is restricted to the carrying value of the asset.
Details of the value of these interests is included in the risk management report on page 48 and 49.
