Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued At 31 March 000 2014 2013 51.
Contingent liabilities Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security: Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 908 581 874 238 908 581 874 238 The amounts shown above are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at the balance sheetdate.
Guarantees are issued by Investec plc and Investec Limited on behalf of third parties and other group companies.
The guarantees are issued as part of the banking business.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme The UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, the UK's statutory fund of last resort, provides compensation to customers of UK authorised fi financial institutions in the event that an institution which is a participating member of the FSCS is unable, or is likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
The FSCS raises annual levies from participating members to meet its management expenses and compensation costs.
Individual participating members make payments based on their level of participation in the case of deposits, the proportion that their protected deposits represent of total protected deposits at 31 December of the year preceding the scheme year.
Following the default of a number of deposit takers in 2008, the FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund the compensation costs for customers of those fi rms.
Although the majority of this loan is expected to be repaid from funds the FSCS receives from asset sales, surplus cash fl ow or other recoveries in relation to the assets of the fi rms that defaulted, any shortfall will be funded by deposit-taking participants of the FSCS.
Investec Bank plc is a participating member of the FSCS and the bank has accrued 5.0 million for its share of levies that will be raised by the FSCS.
The accrual is based on estimates for the interest the FSCS will pay on the loan and estimates of the level of the banks market participation in the relevant periods.
Interest will continue to accrue to the FSCS on the HM Treasury loan and will form part of future FSCS levies.
At the date of these fi financial statements, it is not possible to estimate whether there will ultimately be additional levies on the industry, the level of Investecs market participation or other factors that may affect the amounts or timing of amounts that may ultimately become payable, nor the effect that such levies may have upon operating results in any particular fi financial period.
Legal proceedings Investec operates in a legal and regulatory environment that exposes it to litigation risks.
As a result, Investec is involved in disputes and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Investec does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Investec is party to have a signifi cant adverse effect on the fi financial position of the group.
These claims, if any, cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Specifi cally, a claim has been made in the Royal Court of Guernsey against, Investec Trust Guernsey Limited, a subsidiary of Investec plc, for breach of equitable duty of skill and care with a related claim for liability for the debts of a client trust.
The outcome of these claims cannot reasonably be estimated at this time but Investec does not expect the ultimate resolution of the proceedings to have a material adverse effect on the fi financial position of the group.
