Reliance Reporting Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Basel III reforms.
However, it is notable that of a bank.
Our objective is therefore to policies.
All personnel are adequately skilled in response to the limited availability of High manage and mitigate risk exposures and at both a business unit and a group level.
events by adopting sound operational risk Quality Liquid Assets in Australia, APRA will Governance allow banks to have access to a secured management practices.
committed liquidity facility with the RBA The governance structure adopted to Operational risk management subject to certain requirements.
manage operational risk is enforced framework in terms of a levels of defence model During the year APRA also introduced The bank continues to operate under and supports the principle of combined a cross-industry Prudential Standard the Standardised Approach TSA to assurance in the following manner: for Risk Management and enhanced operational risk which forms the basis of the its standard on governance covering operational risk management framework.
authorised deposit-taking institutions, life The framework is embedded at all levels of Board and board committees insurers and general insurers.
The reforms the organisation and is continually reviewed Review and approval of the overall have the aim of ensuring the consistent to ensure appropriate and effective risk management strategy, including application of APRAs risk management management of operational risk.
determination of the risk appetite and and governance requirements across its tolerance for the bank Monitor and review the operational risk During the year under review, enhancement regulated industries and refl ecting APRAs exposures and metrics.
of all the components of the operational risk heightened expectations in this area, with management framework remained an area APRA much more focused on the quality of of focus.
an institutions risk governance and its risk culture.
These reforms will come into effect External assurance and The process of advancing practices and from 1 January 2015. supervision understanding regulatory requirements is External assessment of operational risk supported by regular interaction with the Investec Australia remains committed and environment regulator and with industry counterparts at on track to continue to meet these evolving Onsite reviews by the SARB, FCA, PRA formal industry forums.
An independent group operational risk management function, mandated by Operational risk the board risk and capital committee, Internal assurance Operational risk defi nition ensures that operational risk policies and Independent review of framework and procedures are developed and applied Operational risk is the risk of loss arising its effectiveness Audit fi findings integrated into consistently and effectively throughout from inadequate or failed internal processes, operational risk management process.
Business unit management, people or systems, or external events.
supported by operational risk managers Operational risk has both fi financial and nonfi nancialimpacts.
ORMs who operate at a business unit level, are responsible for embedding and We recognise that there is signifi cant Group operational risk implementing operational risk practices and operational risk inherent in the operations management Challenge and review business unit operational risk practices and data Maintain operational risk framework The diagram below depicts how the components of operational risk are integrated.
and policy Report to board and board committees on operational risk exposures, events Governance and risk appetite and emerging issues.
Policies and procedures Business unit management 01 Identify, own and mitigate operational risk Identification Measurement Establish and maintain an appropriate operational risk and control environment Maintain an embedded operational risk Risk and control Scenarios management capability.
assessment Capital calculation Internal risk events External risk events Key risk indicators Technology 78 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Monitoring Assurance Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Risk appetite and tolerance Enhancement of The Operational Risk Tolerance policy defi fines the amount of operational risk all the components exposure, or potential adverse impact of the operational from a risk event, that the bank is willing to risk management accept or retain.
The objective of the policy is to encourage action and mitigation of framework remained risk exposures and provides management an area of focus guidance to respond appropriately.
Additionally, the policy defi fines capturing and reporting thresholds for risk events and guidance to respond to key risk indicators appropriately.
Operational risk practices The following practices are used for the management of operational risk as illustrated in the diagram below: Risk and Internal risk External Key risk Scenarios Reporting Technology control events risk events indicators and capital and assessment calculation monitoring Qualitative Incidents Access to data Metrics are Extreme, A reporting An operational assessments resulting from from an external used to monitor yet plausible process is risk system is in that identify key failed systems, data consortium risk exposures scenarios are in place to place to support operational risks processes, against identifi ed evaluated for ensure that risk operational risk Events are and controls people or thresholds fi financial and exposures are practices and analysed to external events non-fi financial identifi ed and processes Identifi es inform potential Assists in impacts that key risks ineffective A causal control failures predictive are appropriately controls and analysis is within the bank capability Used to escalated and improves performed measure managed The output of decision-making exposure Enables this analysis through an arising from key Monitoring business to is used as understanding risks, which is compliance with identify trends in input into the of the considered in operational risk risk events and operational risk operational risk determining policies and address control assessment profi le internal practices ensure weaknesses process operational the framework risk capital is embedded requirements in day to day business 01 activities Investec integrated annual report 2014 79 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Operational risk year under review and looking forward Risk event experience The graphs and fi gures below represent the distribution of the value and number of risk events across the Basel risk event categories for the period April 2013 to March 2014 with comparative values.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total value of risk events Percentage 100 91.45 83.15 80 60 40 20 9.58 6.90 7.11 1.34 0.31 0.16 0 Business Clients, Damage Employment Execution, External Internal disruption products and to physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud and system business assets workplace process 2013 % of total value of risk events failures practices safety management 2014 % of total value of risk events Operational risk events by risk category % of total number of risk events Percentage 60 51.72 50 47.45 41.19 40 36.89 30 20 10.59 10.36 10 0.63 0.82 0.05 0.07 0.09 0.07 0.03 0.04 0 Business Clients, Damage Employment Execution, External Internal disruption products and to physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud and system business assets workplace process 2013 % of total number of risk events failures practices safety management 01 2014 % of total number of risk events Notes to graphs above: The loss event category business disruption and system failures comprise largely of non-fi financial risk events Clients, products and business practices are driven by a few large losses The majority of losses are experienced in the execution, delivery and process management risk event category.
The total loss value is predominately driven by a few large losses which are mainly as a result of process failure risk.
Trend and causal analysis are performed to improve the control environment The external fraud risk event category includes credit card fraud and relates to fi financial crime risk.
In 2014 the number of risk events in this category has increased however, the value of risk events remains low.
Financial crime initiatives will continue to focus on effective mitigationstrategies.
80 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Key operational risk considerations The following key risks may result in loss of value should they materialise.
Defi nition of risk Approach to mitigation Priority for 2014 Financial crime Risk associated with fraud, forgery, Proactive strategy which includes fraud risk Financial crime awareness for internal theft and corruption.
assessments and external stakeholders, including Review external and industry events by awareness relating to the Investec engaging with external partners such as Integrity Line.
South African Banking Risk Information Centre SABRIC, SAPS and agency banks Understanding and proactively managing the emerging threat of cybercrime across theindustry.
Information security Risks associated with the Identifi cation of threats and associated risks Raising awareness with internal confi dentiality, availability or integrity to our information assets including legal and and external stakeholders of the of our information assets, irrespective regulatory requirements threats, controls and policies oflocation or media.
Development and monitoring of policies, relating to information security and processes and technical controls designed to their responsibility in protecting our mitigate the risks to our information information.
Evaluation of risks introduced by our information supply chain Maintenance and testing of our security incident and breach response processes.
Process failure Risk associated with inadequate Weaknesses in controls are identifi ed through Enhancement of processes to identify internal processes, including human the causal analysis process following the risks related to new products and errors and control failures within occurrence of risk events projects.
This includes process Thematic reviews are performed to monitor the origination, execution and operations.
effectiveness of controls across businessunits Effective management of change remains a focus area for the year ahead.
Regulatory and compliance Risk associated with identifi cation, Group Compliance and Group Legal Risk Alignment of regulatory and compliance implementation and monitoring of assist in the management of regulatory and approach to refl ect new regulatory compliance with regulations.
compliance risk landscapes particularly change of Identifi cation and adherence to legal and regulatory structures in UK and SA regulatory requirements Managing business impact and Review practices and policies as regulatory implementation challenges as a result requirements change.
of signifi cant volumes of statutory and regulatory changes and developments Ensuring existing monitoring remains focused appropriately as areas of conduct and regulatory risk develop.
Technology 01 Risk associated with the reliance Establishment and maintenance of an IT risk Identifying, monitoring and reducing on technology to support business assessment framework to consistently and risks in our digital channel, following the processes and client services.
effectively assess IT exposures across the introduction of mobile applications and Thisrelates to the operations, usage, business our increased online presence.
ownership and responsibility of IT Monitoring risk exposures related to adoption of systems across the business.
new technologies Identifi cation and remediation of vulnerabilities identifi ed in IT systems, applications, and processes Establishing appropriate IT recovery capabilities to safeguard against business disruptions resulting from systems failures and IT service outages.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group insurance risk manager.
Regular interaction between Group Operational Risk Management and Group Insurance Risk Management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
