Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued At 31 March 000 2014 2013 33.
Investment properties At the beginning of the year 451975 407295 Additions 148428 157646 Disposals 16807 51871 Fair value movement 16374 9599 Exchange adjustment 90742 51496 At the end of the year 509228 451975 All investment properties are classifi ed as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Fair value hierarchy Investment property For all investment property that is measured at fair value, the current use of the property is considered the highest and best use.
Properties are valued under the income capitalisation method and discounted cash fl ow method DCF.
Under the income capitalisation method a property's fair value is estimated based on the normalised net operating income generated by the property, which is divided by the capitalisation rate.
Under the DCF method a propertys fair value is estimated using explicit assumptions about the benefi ts and liabilities of ownership over the assets life including an exit or terminal value.
This involves the projection of a series of cash fl ows and, to this, an appropriate, market-derived discount rate is applied to establish the present value of the income stream.
Valuation techniques used to derive level 3 fair values For all classes of investment property the signifi cant unobservable inputs listed below are used in the income capitalisation method to determine the fair value measurement at the end of the reporting period.
Signifi cant unobservable inputs Relationship between unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Expected Rental Value ERV Increases decreases in ERV would increase decrease estimated fair value.
Equivalent yield Increases decreases in the equivalent yield would result in decreases increases inthe estimated fair value.
Long-term vacancy rate Increases decreases in the long-term vacancy rate would result in decreases increases in the estimated fair value.
Given the high tenancy rates of property portfolio, the long-term vacancy rate may not always be applicable.
The table above includes the following descriptions and defi nitions relating to key unobservable inputs made in determining fair value: Signifi cant unobservable inputs Relationship between unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Expected Rental Value ERV The rent at which space could be let in the market conditions prevailing at the date of valuation.
Equivalent yield The equivalent yield is defi ned as the internal rate of return of the cash fl ow from the property, assuming a rise to ERV at the next review, but with no further rental 01 growth.
Long-term vacancy rate The ERV of the expected long-term average structural vacant space divided by ERV of the whole property.
Long-term vacancy rate can also be determined based on thepercentage of estimated vacant space divided by the total lettable area.
Further analysis of investment properties is in the risk management section on pages 45 to 47 in volume two.
