Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 56.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec Limited Interest Country of At 31 March Principal activity incorporation 2014 2013 Direct subsidiaries of Investec Limited Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd Investment holding South Africa 85.0% 100.0% Investec Bank Limited Registered bank South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec Employee Benefi ts Holdings Pty Ltd Investment holding South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec International Holdings Investment holding Gibraltar 100.0% 100.0% Gibraltar Limited Investec Securities Pty Ltd Registered stockbroker South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Fedsure International Pty Ltd Investment holding South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec Property Group Investment holding South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Holdings Pty Ltd Indirect subsidiaries of Investec Limited Investec Asset Management Pty Ltd Asset management South Africa 85.0% 100.0% Investec Insurance Brokers Pty Ltd Insurance broking South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec International Holdings Pty Ltd Investment holding South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec Fund Managers SA RF Pty Ltd Unit trust management South Africa 85.0% 100.0% Investec Bank Mauritius Limited Banking institution Mauritius 100.0% 100.0% Investec Property Group Pty Ltd Property trading South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Reichmans Holdings Pty Ltd Trade fi nancing South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec Employee Benefi ts Limited Long-term Insurance South Africa 100.0% 100.0% Investec Assurance Limited Insurance company South Africa 85.0% 100.0% Investec Property Fund Limited Engage in long-term South Africa 44.3% 50.01% immovable property investment The following subsidiaries are not consolidated for regulatory purposes: Investec Assurance Limited Investec Employee Benefi ts Holdings Pty Ltd and its subsidiaries There are no subsidiaries which are consolidated for regulatory but not for accounting purposes.
Consolidated structured entities Investec Limited has residual economic interests in the following structured entities which are consolidated.
Typically a structured entity is an entity in which voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding control.
The judgements to assess whether the group has control over these structures include assessing the purpose and design of the entity, considering whether the group or another involved party with power over the relevant activities is acting as a principal in its own right or as an agent on behalf of others.
01 Name of principal structured entity Type of structured entity Private Mortgages 1 RF Pty Ltd Securitised residential mortgages Private Mortgages 2 RF Pty Ltd Securitised residential mortgages Private Residential Mortgages RF Ltd Securitised residential mortgages Fox Street 1 RF Ltd Securitised residential mortgages Fox Street 2 RF Ltd Securitised residential mortgages Grayston Conduit 1 RF Ltd Securitised asset-backed securities and debt and loan portfolios Integer Home Loans Pty Ltd Securitised third-party originated residential mortgages For additional detail on the assets and liabilities arising on securitisation refer to note 28.
For details of the risks to which the group is exposed through all of its securitisations are included in the risk management report on pages 48 and 49 in volume two.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 117 Financial statements Notes to the annual fi financial statements continued 56.
Principal subsidiaries and associated companies Investec Limited continued The key assumptions for the main types of structured entities which the group consolidates are summarised below: Securitised residential mortgages The group has securitised residential mortgages in order to provide investors with exposure to residential mortgage risk and to raise funding.
These structured entities are consolidated due to the group's holdings of subordinated notes.
The group is not required to fund any losses above those incurred on the notes it has retained: such losses are refl ected in any impairment of securitised mortgages as those assets have not been derecognised.
Structured debt and loan portfolios The group has structured debt and loan portfolios for the purpose of issuing asset-backed securities.
This structured entity is consolidated due to the group's retention of residual economic benefi ts and because it continues to act as the facility provider.
The group is not required to fund any losses.
Securitised asset-backed securities portfolio The group has securitised asset-backed securities portfolios for the purpose of issuing asset-backed commercial paper.
This structured entity is consolidated due to the group's retention of residual economic benefi ts combined with a facility provided.
Thegroup is not required to fund any losses.
Securitised third party originated residential mortgages The group has a senior and subordinated investment in a third party originated structured entity.
This structured entity is consolidated due to the groups exposure to residual economic benefi ts.
The group is not required to fund any losses above those incurred on the investment made.
Interests in Asset Management and Wealth & Investment Funds Management have concluded that the investment funds in the Asset Management and Wealth & Investment businesses do not meet the defi nition of structured entities as the group does not hold material interests in these funds and currently does not provide fi financial support or other.
Transactions with these funds are conventional customer-supply relationships.
