Financial statements Investec plc parent company accounts Notes to Investec plc parent company accounts a.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The parent accounts of Investec plc are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, and on a going concern basis.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Pounds Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Allforeign currency transactions are translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the time of the transaction.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are revalued at the market rates ruling at the date applicable to their respective maturities.
Anygain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gainor loss in the income statement.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Income Dividends from subsidiaries are recognised when paid.
Interest is recognised on an accrual basis.
Taxation Corporate tax is provided on taxable profi ts at the current rate.
Companys own profi t and loss account The company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present its own profi t and loss account.
Cash fl ow statement The company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard 1 to not present its own cash fl ow statement.
A cash fl ow statement, prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards, is included in the consolidated annual fi financial statements of the group.
Financial instruments The company has taken advantage of the exemption in Financial Reporting Standard 29 to not present its own disclosures in respect of fi financial instruments as disclosures prepared in accordance with International Reporting Standards are included in the consolidated annual fi financial statements of the group.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are recorded at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method.
Related party transactions Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving directors and others are disclosed in note 52 to the group annual fi financial statements.
The company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in Financial Reporting Standard 8 from disclosing transactions with related parties which are wholly owned members of Investec plc group.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 000 2014 2013 At the beginning of the year 1817840 1790348 Additions 54984 Disposals 27492 At the end of the year 1817840 1817840 c. Bank loans The company drew down a Pounds Sterling denominated loan of 40 million on 10 February 2014 which bears interest at a fi xed margin above three-month Libor and is repayable on 10 February 2015.
During the year the company launched its own European Medium Term Note programme EMTN.
The company issued two fi xed rate notes under this programme.
A US Dollar denominated note of U$15 million was issued on 14 February 2014, repayable 16 February 2015 and on the same day a Euro denominated note of 25million was issued which matures 29 September 2017 and pays interest semi-annually.
