Financial statements Accounting policies subsequently.
The amendments further The standard defi fines fair value as being Basis of presentation require tax associated with items presented a market-based measurement and sets before tax to be shown separately for each out in a single IFRS a framework for the The group annual fi financial statements are of the two groups of other comprehensive measurement of fair value.
Application of prepared in accordance with International income items.
the standard has not had a material impact Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, on the recognition and measurement of as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: assets and liabilities of the group.
which comply with IFRSs as issued by Disclosures Offsetting the International Accounting Standards IAS 19 Employee Benefi ts Board IASB.
At31March 2014, IFRS Financial Assets as endorsed by the EU are identical in all The revisions to the standard have been and Financial Liabilities material respects to current IFRS applicable applied retrospectively.
For the group the The revisions to the standard came into to the group.
With differences only in the standard has revised the basis on which effect from 1 April 2013 and require effective dates of certain standards, however the return on assets is determined, with a additional disclosures which are provided the group has early adopted these relevant relatively immaterial impact.
The impact to innote 57. standards to ensure compliance with both prior reported periods has been disclosed frameworks.
in the restatement note 59 on page 126.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements The group annual fi financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, The revised standard on consolidation Basis of consolidation except for investment properties, availablehas been applied retrospectively, with the for-sale investments, derivative fi financial impact to prior reported periods disclosed Investec consists of two separate legal instruments, fi financial assets and fi financial in the restatement note on pages 122 to entities, being Investec plc and Investec liabilities held at fair value through profi t 126.
Theapplication of the single defi nition Limited that operate under a dual listed or loss or subject to hedge accounting of control contained in the standard has company DLC structure.
The effect of the and liabilities for pension fund surpluses resulted in the consolidation of certain DLC structure is that Investec plc and its and defi cits that have been measured at special purpose vehicles in which the subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its fairvalue.
group has exposure to variable returns subsidiaries operate together as a single notnecessarily the majority thereof and has economic entity, with neither assuming a the ability to affect such returns by exercising dominant role and accordingly are reported Presentation of control over the activities of theentity.
as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
information IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements All subsidiaries or structured entities are consolidated when the group controls an The new accounting standard came into Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial investee.
The group controls an investee effect from 1 April 2013 and has not had Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 if it is exposed to, or has rights to variable any impact on the group.
Presentation of Financial Statements: returns from its involvement with the Capital Disclosures relating to the nature investee and has the ability to affect those IFRS 12 Disclosure of and extent of risks have been included returns through its power over the investee.
Interests in Other Entities in sections marked as audited in the risk The fi financial results of subsidiaries are management report on pages 83 to 96 The new disclosure standard has been included in the consolidated annual fi financial involumetwo.
applied retrospectively and requires statements of the group from the date on disclosure of the signifi cant judgements which control is obtained until the date the Certain disclosures required under IAS24 and assumptions made in determining group can no longer demonstrate control.
Related Party Disclosures have been the nature of interests in subsidiaries, included in the section marked as audited Investec performs a reassessment of joint ventures and interest in associated in the remuneration report on pages 152 to consolidation whenever there is a change in undertakings and the interest that non- 157 in volume one.
the substance of the relationship between controlling interests have in the groups 01 Investec and an investee.
A change in the activities and cash fl ows.
The standard ownership interest of a subsidiary, without further provides disclosure requirements Restatements and a loss of control, is accounted for as an relating to consolidated and unconsolidated equity transaction.
Investec also holds structured entities with which the group presentation of investments, for example private equity is associated.
The disclosures relating to information investments, which give rise to signifi cant, unconsolidated structured entities are not but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing required to include comparative information The group has adopted the following new these voting rights and whether Investec in the fi first year of application.
The impact or revised standards from 1 April 2013: controls these entities requires judgement of the standard is further disclosed on that affects the date at which subsidiaries pages 113 to 118, with no changes to IAS 1 Presentation of are consolidated or deconsolidated.
Financial Statements Revised Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, IFRS 13 Fair Value The amendments require entities to group in which the group exercises signifi cant items presented in other comprehensive Measurement infl uence over operating and fi financial income based on whether they are The new accounting standard has been policies, are treated as interests in potentially reclassifi able to profi t or loss applied prospectively from 1 April 2013.
24 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Accounting policies continued associated undertakings.
Interests in acquired in a business combination for Business combinations associated undertakings are accounted impairment annually, irrespective of whether and goodwill for using the equity method from the date an indication of impairment exists and in that signifi cant infl uence commences accordance with IAS 36. Business combinations are accounted for until the date that signifi cant infl uence For the purpose of impairment testing, using the acquisition method.
In circumstances where interests goodwill acquired in a business of an acquisition is measured as the in associated undertakings or joint venture combination is, from the acquisition date, aggregate of the consideration transferred holdings arise in which the group has no allocated to each of the groups cashmeasured at the acquisition date fair value strategic intention, these investments are generating units that are expected to and the amount of any prior non-controlling classifi ed as venture capital holdings and benefi t from the combination.
For each business are designated as held at fair value through combination, the group measures the nonprofi t or loss.
Where goodwill forms part of a cashcontrolling interest in the acquiree either generating unit and part of the operation For equity accounted associates, the at fair value or at the proportionate share within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill combined consolidated annual fi financial of the acquirees identifi able net assets.
associated with the operation disposed of statements include the attributable share Acquisition costs incurred are expensed is included in the carrying amount of the of the results and reserves of associated immediately in the income statement.
operation when determining the gain or loss undertakings.
The groups interests in on disposal of the operation.
When the group acquires a business, associated undertakings are included in the itassesses the fi financial assets and liabilities consolidated balance sheet at cost plus Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance assumed for appropriate classifi cation the post-acquisition changes in the groups is measured based on the relative values of and the designation in accordancewith share of the net assets of the associate.
the operation disposed of and the portion the contractual terms, economic of the cash-generating units retained.
The consolidated balance sheet refl ects circumstances and pertinent conditions as the associated undertakings net of at each acquisition date.
This includes the accumulated impairment losses.
separation of embedded derivatives in host Share-based payments contracts by the acquiree.
All intergroup balances, transactions and to employees unrealised gains and losses within the If the business combination is achieved in group that do not refl ect an impairment to stages, the acquisition date fair value of The group engages in equity-settled sharethe asset, are eliminated in full regarding the groups previously held equity interest based payments in respect of services subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest in the acquiree is re-measured to fair received from employees.
value at each acquisition date through theincomestatement.
The fair value of the services received in respect of equity-settled share-based Any contingent consideration to be Segmental reporting payments is determined by reference to the transferred by the group will be recognised fair value of the shares or share options on at fair value at the acquisition date.
An operating segment is a component the date of grant to the employee.
Thecost Subsequent changes to the fair value of the of the group that engages in business of the share-based payment, together contingent consideration, which is deemed activities from which it may earn revenues with a corresponding increase in equity, is to be an asset or liability, will be recognised and incur expenses, including revenues recognised in the income statement over in accordance with IAS 39 either in the and expenses that relate to transactions the period the service conditions of the income statement or as a change to other with any of the groups other components, grant are met with the amount changing comprehensive income.
If the contingent whose operating results are reviewed according to the number of awards consideration is classifi ed as equity, it will regularly by the board and for which expected to vest.
The cumulative expense not be re-measured until it is fi nally settled discrete fi financial information is available.
recognised for equity-settled transactions within equity.
at each reporting date until the vesting The groups segmental reporting is date refl ects the extent to which the 01 Goodwill is initially measured at cost, presented in the form of a business vesting period has expired and the groups being the excess of the aggregate of the analysis.
The business analysis is best estimate of the number of equity consideration transferred and the amount presented in terms of the groups three instruments that will ultimately vest.
recognised for non-controlling interest over principal business divisions namely, Asset the net identifi able assets acquired and Management, Wealth & Investment and Fair value measurements are based on liabilities assumed.
If this consideration Specialist Banking.
option pricing models, taking into account and amount recognised for non-controlling the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the A geographical analysis is also presented interest is less than the fair values of underlying equity instrument, expected in terms of the main geographies in which the identifi able net assets acquired, dividends and current share prices.
the group operates representing the groups thediscount on acquisition is recognised exposure to various economic environments.
directly in the income statement as a gain Where the terms of an equity-settled inthe year of acquisition.
award are modifi ed, the minimum expense For further detail on the groups recognised in staff costs is the expense segmental reporting basis refer to After initial recognition, goodwill is as if the terms had not been modifi ed.
pages 56 to 80 in volume one of the measured at cost less any accumulated An additional expense is recognised for divisional review section of the impairment losses.
The group tests goodwill any modifi cation which increases the total integrated annual report.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 25 Financial statements Accounting policies continued fair value of the share-based payment Income and expense items are Customer fl ow trading income includes arrangement, or is otherwise benefi cial to translated at exchange rates ruling at income from trading activities arising from the employee as measured at the date of the date of the transaction making and facilitating client activities.
All resulting exchange differences are Trading income arising from balance sheet recognised in other comprehensive management and other trading activities income foreign currency translation consists of proprietary trading income and Foreign currency reserve, which is recognised in the other gains and losses arising from balance income statement on disposal of the sheet management.
transactions and foreign foreign operation operations Trading profi ts includes the unrealised Cash fl ow items are translated at the profi ts on trading portfolios, which are The presentation currency of the group exchange rates ruling at the date of marked to market daily.
Equity investments is Pounds Sterling, being the functional thetransaction.
received in lieu of corporate fi finance fees are currency of Investec plc.
The functional included in investment portfolio and valued currency of Investec Limited is South accordingly.
Revenue recognition Dividend income is recognised when Foreign operations are subsidiaries, the groups right to receive payment is Revenue consists of interest income, fee and interests in associated undertakings or established.
commission income, investment income, branches of the group, the activities of trading income arising from customer fl ow, which are based in a functional currency Included in other operating income is trading income arising from balance sheet other than that of the reporting entity.
incidental rental income, gains on realisation management and other trading activities and Thefunctional currency of group entities is of properties other than investment other operating income.
determined based on the primary economic properties which is included in investment environment in which the entity operates.
income, operating lease income, income Revenue is recognised when it can be from interests in associated undertakings, reliably measured and it is probable that Foreign currency transactions are translated income from assurance activities and the economic benefi ts will fl ow to the entity.
into the functional currency of the entity revenue from consolidated private equity Revenue related to provision of services in which the transaction arises based on investments.
Operating costs associated is recognised when the related services rates of exchange ruling at the date of the with these investments are included in are performed.
Revenue is measured at transaction.
operating costs in the income statement.
the fair value of the consideration received At each balance sheet date foreign currency orreceivable.
items are translated as follows: Interest income is recognised in the Fair value measurement Foreign currency monetary items other income statement using the effective than monetary items that form part of interest method.
Fees charged on lending Fair value is the price that would be the net investment in a foreign operation transactions are included in the effective received to sell an asset or paid to transfer are translated using closing rates, with yield calculation to the extent that they a liability in an orderly transaction between gains and losses recognised in the form an integral part of the effective interest market participants at the measurement income statement rate yield, but exclude those fees earned date in the principal or, in its absence, for a separately identifi able signifi cant act, themost advantageous market to which Exchange differences arising on which are recognised upon completion of the group has access at that date.
monetary items that form part of the the act.
Fees and commissions charged Thefairvalue of a liability refl ects its net investment in a foreign operation inlieu of interest are recognised as income non-performance risk.
are determined using closing rates and as part of the effective interest rate on the recognised as a separate component When available, the group measures the underlyingloan.
of equity foreign currency translation fair value of an instrument using the quoted reserve upon consolidation and is 01 The effective interest method is based price in an active market for that instrument.
recognised in the income statement on the estimated life of the underlying upon disposal of the net investment A market is regarded as active if instrument and, where this estimate is not transactions for the asset or liability take readily available, the contractual life.
Non-monetary items that are measured place with suffi cient frequency and volume at historical costs are translated using Fee and commission income includes to provide pricing information on an the exchange rates ruling at the date of fees earned from providing advisory ongoing basis.
services as well as portfolio management If there is no quoted price in an active and includes rental income from On consolidation, the results and fi financial market, then the group uses valuation investment properties.
position of foreign operations are translated techniques that maximise the use of into the presentation currency of the group, Investment income includes income, relevant observable inputs and minimise the as follows: other than margin from securities held for use of unobservable inputs.
The chosen the purpose of generating interest yield, valuation technique incorporates all of the Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at dividends and capital appreciation.
factors that market participants would take into account in pricing a transaction.
the closing rate at the date of the balancesheet 26 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Accounting policies continued If an asset or a liability measured at fair inconsistency that would otherwise Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and value has a bid price and an ask price, arise from measuring assets or liabilities receivables are measured at amortised then the group measures assets and long or recognising the gains and losses on cost, using the effective interest method, positions at a bid price and liabilities and them on different bases, or less impairment losses.
The effective short positions at an ask price.
interest rate represents the rate that exactly A group of fi financial assets, fi financial discounts future projected cash fl ows The group classifi es disclosed fair values liabilities or both is managed and its through the expected life of the fi financial according to a hierarchy that refl ects the performance is evaluated on a fair value instrument, to the net carrying amount of signifi cance of observable market inputs.
basis in accordance with a documented the fi financial instrument.
Included in the A transfer is made between the hierarchy risk management or investment strategy calculation of the effective interest rate is when the inputs have changed or there has and information about the group is any discount or premium on acquisition and been a change in the valuation method.
provided internally on that basis to the fees that are an integral part of the effective groups key management personnel, and interest rate.
A contract contains one or more Losses arising from impairment of such Financial instruments embedded derivatives which investments are recognised in the income signifi cantly modifi es the cash fl ows that Financial instruments are initially recognised statement line impairment losses on loans would be required by the contract and at their fair value.
For fi financial assets or and advances.
is not clearly prohibited from separation fi financial liabilities not held at fair value from the host contract and the group Interest on impaired fi financial assets is through profi t or loss, transaction costs that has designated the entire hybrid recognised using the rate of interest used are directly attributable to the acquisition contract as a fi financial instrument at fair to discount the future cash fl ows for the or issue of the fi financial assets or fi financial value through profi t or loss.
purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
liabilities are included in the initial fair value.
All other transaction costs are recorded in Held-to-maturity fi financial Securitisation credit the income statement immediately.
assets investment and trading Regular way purchase and sales activities exposures Held-to-maturity fi financial assets are nontransactions in respect of fi financial assets derivative fi financial instruments with fi xed The group makes use of securitisation that require delivery of a fi financial instrument or determinable payments and maturity vehicles as a source of fi finance, as a means within the time frame established by market dates which the group has the intention of risk transfer and to leverage returns convention are recorded at trade date.
and ability to hold to maturity.
Subsequent through the retention of equity tranches to initial recognition, held-to-maturity in low default rate portfolios.
The group Financial assets and liabilities assets are measured at amortised cost predominantly focuses on the securitisation held at fair value through using the effective interest method, less of residential and commercial mortgages.
The group also trades in structured credit Financial instruments held at fair value investments.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking through profi t or loss include all instruments into account any discount or premium on Loans and advances that are originated classifi ed as held-for-trading and those acquisition and fees that are an integral part are transferred to structured entities, and instruments designated as held at fair value of the effective interest rate.
Theamortisation the structured entities issue debt securities through profi t or loss.
is included in interest income in the to external investors to fund the purchase Financial instruments classifi ed as heldincome statement.
Thelosses arising of the securitised assets.
The groups from impairment of such investments are for-trading or designated as held at fair exposure to the structured entities are the value through profi t or loss are recorded recognised in the income statement.
reserves provided as credit enhancement at fair value on the balance sheet with to the holders of the structured entities debt Loans and receivables changes in fair value recognised in the securities, with the fi first loss position treated income statement.
Financial instruments as a long-term interest-bearing borrowing Loans and receivables are non-derivative 01 are classifi ed as trading when they are held to the structured entities.
fi financial assets with fi xed or determinable with the intention of short-term disposal, payments that are not quoted in an active The structured entities are consolidated held with the intention of generating shortmarket and exclude the following: under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial term profi ts, or are derivatives which are Statements when the group has exposure Those that the group intends to trade in, not designated as part of effective hedges.
to or rights to, variable returns from its which are classifi ed as held-for-trading Financial instruments designated as held involvement with the investee and have the and those that the group designates as at fair value through profi t or loss are ability to affect those returns through its at fair value through profi tor loss designated as such on initial recognition power over the investee.
of the instrument and remain in this Those that the group designates as classifi cation until derecognition.
available-for-sale Available-for-sale fi financial Financial assets and liabilities are assets Those for which the group may not designated as held at fair value through recover substantially all of its initial Available-for-sale fi financial assets are profi t or loss only if: those which are designated as such or do investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which is accounted for as not qualify to be classifi ed as designated It eliminates or signifi cantly reduces at fair value through profi t or loss,  instruments.
a measurement or recognition Investec integrated annual report 2014 27 Financial statements Accounting policies continued to-maturity, or loans and receivables.
All changes in fair value of fi financial liabilities An allowance for impairment is only Theyinclude strategically held equity are recognised in the income statement.
reversed when there is objective evidence instruments that are not interests in that the credit quality has improved to the Day-one profi t or loss associated undertakings, joint ventures extent that there is reasonable assurance of or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, timely collection of principal and interest in When the transaction price differs from terms of the original contractual agreement.
certain loans and receivables that are held the fair value of other observable current at fair value due to being quoted on an market transactions in the same instrument The impairment is calculated as the active market, which are neither actively or based on the valuation technique difference between the carrying value of traded nor held-to-maturity instruments, whose variables include only data from the asset and the expected cash fl ows areclassifi ed as available-for-sale observable markets, the difference between including net expected proceeds on fi nancialassets.
the transaction price and fair value is realisation of collateral discounted at recognised immediately in the income the original effective rate.
Impairments of Financial assets classifi ed as availablestatement.
fi financial assets held at amortised cost are for-sale are measured at fair value with recognised in the income statement.
unrealised gains and losses recognised In cases where fair value is determined directly in other comprehensive income in using data which is not observable, the To cater for any shortfall between regulatory the available-for-sale reserve.
Whenthe difference between the transaction price provision requirements in the respective asset is disposed of, the cumulative gain and model value is only recognised in the jurisdictions and impairments based on the or loss previously recognised in other income statement when the inputs become principles above, a transfer is made from comprehensive income is recognised in the observable, or when the instrument distributable to non-distributable reserves, income statement.
Interest earned whilst is derecognised or over the life of the being the regulatory general risk reserve.
holding available-for-sale fi financial assets transaction.
The non-distributable regulatory risk is reported as interest income using the reserve ensures that minimum regulatory effective interest rate.
Dividends earned Impairments of fi financial assets provisioning requirements are maintained.
whilst holding available-for-sale fi financial held at amortised cost assets are recognised in the income Derecognition of fi financial Financial assets carried at amortised cost statement when the right of payment has assets and liabilities are impaired if there is objective evidence been established.
that the group would not receive cash A fi financial asset, or a portion thereof, is fl ows according to the original contractual If an available-for-sale instrument is derecognised when the groups rights to terms.
Financial assets are assessed for determined to be impaired, the respective cash fl ows have expired or when the group impairment at each balance sheet date cumulative unrealised losses previously has transferred its rights to cash fl ows and when an indicator of impairment recognised in other comprehensive income relating to the fi financial assets and either: are included in the income statement isidentifi ed.
a the group has transferred substantially in the period in which the impairment all the risk and rewards associated with the The test for impairment is based either isidentifi ed.
fi financial assets or b the group has neither on specifi c fi financial assets or collectively transferred nor retained substantially all Impairments on available-for-sale equity on a portfolio of similar, homogeneous the risks and rewards associated with the instruments are not reversed once assets.
Over and above individual collective fi financial assets but has transferred control impairments raised at specifi c portfolio recognised in the income statement.
levels, the group recognises a collective If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of impairment allowance at a central level A fi financial liability is derecognised when it a debt instrument classifi ed as availablewithin the Specialist Banking business is extinguished, that is when the obligation for-sale increases and the increase can be segment that takes into account macrois discharged, cancelled or expired.
When objectively related to an event occurring an existing fi financial liability is replaced or economic factors, mainly driven by data after the impairment loss was recognised modifi ed with substantially different terms, related to the prevailing credit markets and in the income statement, the impairment such a replacement or modifi cation is treated which indicate incurred but not specifi cally loss is reversed, limited to the impairment 01 as a derecognition of the original liability identifi ed losses across the loan portfolios value previously recognised in the income and the recognition of a new liability.
The that is, exposures in all business segments.
difference in the respective carrying amounts Assets specifi cally identifi ed as impaired are is recognised in the income statement.
excluded from the collective assessment.
Financial liabilities Reclassifi cation of fi financial Financial liabilities are classifi ed as nonImpairments are credited to an allowance trading, held-for-trading or designated as account which is carried against the carrying instruments held at fair value through profi t or loss.
value of fi financial assets.
Interest continues The group may reclassify, in certain rare to be accrued on the reduced carrying circumstances, non-derivative fi financial Non-trading liabilities are recorded at amount based on the original effective assets out of the held-for-trading category amortised cost applying the effective interest rate of the asset.
Loans together and into the available-for-sale, loans interest method.
with the associated allowance are written off and receivables, or held-to-maturity when there is no realistic prospect of future Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain recovery and all collateral has been realised designated as held at fair value through circumstances, fi financial instruments out or transferred to thegroup.
profi t or loss are measured at fair value.
of the available-for-sale category and into the loans and receivables category.
28 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Reclassifi cations are recorded at fair For cash fl ow hedges, a forecasted are recognised in other comprehensive value at the date of reclassifi cation, which transaction that is the subject of the income while any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in becomes the new amortised cost.
hedge must be highly probable and must present an exposure to variations the income statement.
On disposal of the Derivative instruments foreign operation, the cumulative value of in cash fl ows that could ultimately affect any such gain or loss recorded in other profi t and loss All derivative instruments of the group are comprehensive income is reclassifi ed to recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
The effectiveness of the hedge can be theincome statement.
Positive and negative fair values are reported reliably measured, i. e. the fair value or as assets and liabilities, respectively.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when it cash fl ows of the hedged item that are is determined that the instrument ceases attributable to the hedged risk and the Derivative positions are entered into either to be highly effective as a hedge: when the fair value of the hedging instrument can for trading purposes or as part of the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or be reliably measured groups asset and liability management exercised: when the hedged item matures activities to manage exposures to interest The hedge effectiveness is assessed on or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted rate and foreign currency risks.
Both an ongoing basis and determined actually transaction is no longer deemed highly realised and unrealised profi ts and losses to have been highly effective throughout probable or when the designation as a arising on derivatives are recognised in the the fi financial reporting periods for which herevoked.
income statement as part of trading income the hedge was designated.
other than circumstances in which cash Embedded derivatives fl ow hedging is applied as detailed in the For qualifying fair value hedges, the change To the extent that a derivative may be hedge accounting section below.
in fair value of the hedging instrument embedded in a hybrid contract and the is recognised in the income statement.
Derivative instruments transacted as hybrid contract is not carried at fair value Changes in fair value of the hedged item with changes in fair value recorded in the economic hedges which do not qualify that is attributable to the hedged risk are income statement, the embedded derivative for hedge accounting and derivatives that also recognised in the income statement.
is separated from the host contract and are entered into for trading purposes are accounted for as a stand-alone derivative treated in the same way as instruments that For qualifying cash fl ow hedges in respect of ifand only if: are held-for-trading.
non-fi financial assets and liabilities, the change in fair value of the hedging instrument, relating The economic characteristics and risks of Credit derivatives are entered into for to the effective portion is initially recognised the embedded derivative are not closely trading purposes.
Credit derivatives of the directly in other comprehensive income in the related to the economic characteristics group are initially recognised at their fair cash fl ow hedge reserve and is included in and risks of the host contract values, being the transaction price of the the initial cost of any asset liability recognised derivative.
Subsequently the derivatives are or in all other cases released to the income A separate instrument with the same carried at fair value, with movements in fair statement when the hedged fi rm commitment terms as the embedded derivative would value through profi t and loss, based on the or forecasted transaction affects net profi t. If meet the defi nition of a derivative.
current market price or re-measured price.
the forecast transaction or fi rm commitment Offsetting of fi financial assets is no longer expected to occur, the balance Hedge accounting included in other comprehensive income and liabilities The group applies either fair value or cash is reclassifi ed to the income statement Financial assets and liabilities are offset fl ow hedge or hedge of net investments in immediately and recognised in trading income when there is both an intention to settle foreign operations accounting when the from balance sheet management and other on a net basis or simultaneously and transactions meet the specifi ed hedge trading activities.
a currently enforceable legal right to accounting criteria.
To qualify for hedge offsetexists.
For qualifying cash fl ow hedges in accounting treatment, the group ensures respect of fi financial assets and liabilities, that all of the following conditions are met: Issued debt and equity fi financial the change in fair value of the hedging instruments At inception of the hedge, the group 01 instrument, which represents an effective formally documents the relationship hedge, isinitially recognised in other Financial instruments issued by the group between the hedging instrument s comprehensive income and is released are classifi ed as liabilities if they contain a and hedged item s including the risk to the income statement in the same contractual obligation to deliver cash or management objectives and the strategy period during which the relevant fi financial another fi financial asset.
in undertaking the hedge transaction.
asset or liability affects the income Financial instruments issued by the group Also at the inception of the hedge statement.
Any ineffective portion of are classifi ed as equity where they confer on relationship, a formal assessment is the hedge is immediately recognised in the holder a residual interest in the group, undertaken to ensure the hedging theincomestatement.
and the group has no obligation to deliver instrument is expected to be highly Qualifying hedges of a net investment in either cash or another fi financial asset to effective in offsetting the designated risk a foreign operation including a hedge of a the holder.
The components of compound in the hedged item.
Ahedge is expected monetary item that is accounted for as part issued fi financial instruments are accounted to be highly effective if the changes in fair of the net investment are accounted for in a for separately with the liability component value or cash fl ows attributable to the way similar to cash fl ow hedges.
Changes separated fi first and any residual amount hedged risk during the period for which in the fair value of the hedging instrument being allocated to the equity component.
the hedge is designated are expected to relating to the effective portion of the hedge offset in a range of 80% to125% Investec integrated annual report 2014 29 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries Depreciation is provided on the depreciable Financial guarantees of Investec plc or Investec Limited are amount of each component on a straightFinancial guarantee contracts issued by line basis over the expected useful life of recorded as non-controlling interests on the group are those contracts that require thebalance sheet.
a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the The depreciable amount related to each Equity instruments are initially measured net specifi ed debtor fails to make a payment asset is determined as the difference of directly attributable issue costs.
when due, in accordance with the terms between the cost and the residual value of Treasury shares represent issued equity of a debt instrument.
The residual value is the estimated repurchased by the group which has are initially recognised at fair value, amount, net of disposal costs that the group not been cancelled.
Treasury shares are would currently obtain from the disposal adjusted for the transaction costs that deducted from shareholders equity and are directly attributable to the issuance of of an asset in similar age and condition as represent the purchase consideration, expected at the end of its useful life.
The current and comparative annual Subsequent to initial recognition the Wheretreasury shares are subsequently depreciation rates for each class of property liability under each guarantee is measured sold or reissued, net proceeds received and equipment is as follows: at the higher of the amount recognised areincluded in shareholders equity.
less cumulative amortisation and the best Computer and related Dividends on ordinary shares are estimate of expenditure required to settle equipment 20% 33% recognised as a deduction from equity at any fi financial obligation arising as a result the earlier of payment date or the date that of the guarantee.
Subsequent to initial Motor vehicles 20% 25% it is approved by Investec plc inrelation measurement all changes in the balance to dividends declared by Investec plc and Furniture and fi ttings 10% 20% sheet carrying value are recognised in the Investec Limited in relation to dividends income statement.
Freehold buildings 2% declared by Investec Limited shareholders.
Instalment credit, leases and Leasehold property and improvements Sale and repurchase rental agreements agreements including Leasehold improvements depreciation A fi finance lease is a lease that transfers rates are determined by reference to securities borrowing and substantially all of the risks and rewards the appropriate useful life of its separate lending incidental to ownership of an asset.
components, limited to the period of the Anoperating lease is a lease other than Where securities are sold subject to lease.
Leasehold property depreciation afi financial lease.
a commitment to repurchase them, rates are determined by reference to the ata fi xed price or a selling price plus a period of the lease.
Where classifi ed as a fi finance lease, lenders return, they remain on balance amounts outstanding on these contracts, No depreciation is provided on freehold sheet.
Proceeds received are recorded net of unearned fi finance charges, are land, however, similar to other propertyas a liability on balance sheet under included in loans and advances where the related assets, it is subject to impairment repurchase agreements and cash group is the lessor and included in liabilities testing when an indication of impairment collateral on securities lent.
Securities where the group is the lessee.
that are purchased under a commitment charges on fi finance leases and instalment to resell the securities at a future date credit transactions are credited or debited Routine maintenance and service costs for are not recognised on the balance sheet.
to income in proportion to the capital group assets are expensed as incurred.
The consideration paid is recognised balances outstanding at the rate implicit Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised as an asset under reverse repurchase inthe agreement.
if it is probable that future economic agreements and cash collateral on benefi ts associated with the item will fl ow Where classifi ed as operating leases, securities borrowed.
rentals payable receivable are charged credited in the income statement on a The difference between the sale and straight-line basis over the lease term.
01 repurchase prices is treated as interest Contingent rentals are accrued to the Investment property expense and is accrued over the life income statement when incurred of the agreement using the effective Properties held by the group which are interestmethod.
held for capital appreciation or rental yield are classifi ed as investment properties.
Securities borrowing transactions that are Property and equipment Investment properties are carried at fair not cash collateralised are not included in value, with fair value gains and losses the balance sheet.
Securities lending and Property and equipment are recorded recognised in the income statement in at cost less accumulated depreciation borrowing transactions which are cash investment income.
collateralised are accounted for in the same manner as securities sold or purchased Fair value of investment property is Cost is the cash equivalent paid or the fair subject to repurchase commitments.
calculated by taking into account the value of the consideration given to acquire expected rental stream associated with an asset and includes other expenditures The cash collateral from agency-based scrip the property, and is supported by market that are directly attributable to the lending transactions are disclosed on a net evidence.
basis, in accordance with master netting agreements and the intention to settle net.
30 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Insurance liabilities are measured at Dealing properties Taxation and their actuarial values, and are tested deferred taxation for adequacy on an annual basis.
Dealing properties are carried at the lower Anydefi ciency identifi ed is recognised in of cost and net realisable value.
Current tax payable is provided on the theincome statement.
amount expected to be payable on taxable profi ts at rates that are enacted or Insurance income is included in other Intangible assets substantively enacted and applicable to the operating income.
Intangible assets are recorded at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairments.
Deferred taxation is provided using the Employee benefi ts balance sheet method on temporary For intangible assets with a fi nite life, differences between the carrying amount of amortisation is provided on the depreciable The group operates various defi ned an asset or liability in the balance sheet and amount of each intangible asset on a contribution schemes and two closed its tax base, except where such temporary straight-line basis over the expected useful defi ned benefi t schemes.
differences arise from: life of the asset currently three to twenty In respect of the defi ned contribution years.
The depreciable amount related The initial recognition of goodwill scheme, all employer contributions to each intangible asset is determined as The initial recognition of an asset or are charged to income as incurred, in the difference between the cost and the liability in a transaction which is not a accordance with the rules of the scheme, residual value of the asset.
The residual business combination and at the time and included under staff costs.
value is the estimated amount, net of of the transaction has no effect on the disposal costs, which the group would The assets of the defi ned benefi t schemes income statement or taxable profi t currently obtain from the disposal of an are measured at their market value at intangible asset in similar age and condition In respect of temporary differences the balance sheet date and the liabilities as expected at the end of its useful life.
associated with the investments in of the schemes are measured using the subsidiaries and interests in associated projected unit credit method.
The discount undertakings, where the timing of the rate used to measure the schemes Impairment of reversal of the temporary differences can liabilities is the current rate of return on an be controlled and it is probable that the non-fi financial assets AAcorporate bond at the balance sheet temporary differences will not reverse in date of equivalent term and currency to the the foreseeable future.
At each balance sheet date the group liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes reviews the carrying value of non-fi financial assets exceed or fall short of the schemes Deferred tax assets or liabilities are assets, other than investment property, for liabilities is shown as a surplus to the measured using the tax rates that have indication of impairment.
The recoverable extent that it is considered recoverable been enacted or substantively enacted by amount, being the higher of fair value ordefi cit in the balance sheet.
less cost of disposal and value in use, is determined for any assets for which an Deferred tax assets are recognised to the Actuarial gains and losses related to indication of impairment is identifi ed.
If the extent that it is probable that future taxable the defi ned benefi t asset or liability are recoverable amount of an asset is less than profi t will be available against which the recognised immediately directly in other its carrying value, thecarrying value of the deferred tax asset can be utilised.
asset is reduced toits recoverable value.
Items recognised directly in other The group has no liabilities for other postImpairment losses are recognised as comprehensive income are net of related retirement benefi ts.
an expense in the income statement in current and deferred taxation.
the period in which they are identifi ed.
Reversals of impairment losses are Borrowing costs recognised in income in the period in which Insurance contracts the reversals are identifi ed, to the extent Borrowing costs that are directly 01 that the carrying value of the asset does not Insurance contracts are those contracts attributable to property developments exceed the amount that would have been in which the group assumes signifi cant which take a substantial period of time to calculated without impairment.
The deposit components develop for sale are capitalised.
of insurance contracts are unbundled and accounted for separately.
Insurance Trust and premiums are recognised in the period Provisions, contingent in which the group is entitled to the fi duciary activities liabilities and premium.
Insurance claims are recognised in the income statement in the period in The group acts as a trustee or in other contingent assets which a contractual obligation arises for fi duciary capacities that result in the the group to make payment under an holding, placing or managing of assets for Provisions are recognised when the insurancecontract.
the account of and at the risk of clients.
group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, Reinsurance assets and liabilities and As these are not assets of the group, it is probable that an outfl ow of resources associated premiums claims are not offset theyare not recognised on the balance embodying economic benefi ts will be sheet but are included at market value as in the income statement or balance sheet.
part of assets under administration.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 31 Financial statements Accounting policies continued required to settle the obligation and a to the methodology are subject to fi final resolution with the relevant local reliable estimate can be made of the deliberation, with the section of the tax authorities.
Thegroup recognises amount of the obligation.
The expense standard on impairment currently liabilities for taxation based on estimates relating to a provision is presented expected to be published in 2014. of levels of taxation expected to be in the income statement net of any payable, taking into consideration expert The amendments made to IFRS 9 in reimbursement.
Contingent assets and external advice where appropriate.
The February 2014 provide that the mandatory contingent liabilities are not recognised on fi final resolution may result in different effective date for IFRS 9 is from 2018. balance sheet.
amounts of cash fl ows to those However, entities may still choose to apply initially provided and any necessary IFRS 9 immediately.
adjustments are taken into consideration in the period in which they are identifi ed Standards and There are additional disclosures and consequential amendments in IFRS7 Determination of interest income and interpretations issued resulting from the introduction of the hedge interest expense using the effective but not yet effective accounting chapter in IFRS9, these will interest method involves judgement in become effective when IFRS9 is applied.
determining the timing and extent of The following signifi cant standards and future cash fl ows All other standards and interpretations interpretations, which have been issued issued but not yet effective are not butare not yet effective, are applicable In order to meet the objectives of expected to have a material impact on to the group.
These standards and IFRS 12, management performs an thegroup.
interpretations have not been applied assessment of the value of each inthese annual fi financial statements.
associate in relation to the value of The group intends to comply with these total assets, as well as any qualitative standards from the effective dates.
Key management considerations that may exist, in order to determine materiality to the reporting assumptions IFRS 9 Financial Instruments entity for disclosure purposes.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace In preparation of the annual fi financial certain key elements of IAS 39 when fi nally statements the group makes estimations issued.
The two key elements that would and applies judgement that could affect the impact the groups accounting policies reported amount of assets and liabilities include: within the next fi financial year.
Key areas in which judgement is applied include: Classifi cation and measurement of fi financial assets and fi financial liabilities: Valuation of unlisted investments in the the standard requires that all fi financial private equity and direct investments assets be classifi ed as either held at fair portfolios.
Key valuation inputs are value or amortised cost.
The amortised based on the most relevant observable cost classifi cation is only permitted market inputs, adjusted where where it is held within a business model necessary for factors that specifi cally where the underlying cash fl ows are apply to the individual investments and held in order to collect contractual cash recognising market volatility fl ows and that the cash fl ows arise Details of unlisted investments solely from payment of principal and can be found in note 26 with interest.
The standard further provides further analysis contained in the that gains and losses on assets held risk management section on at fair value are measured through the pages 45 to 47 in volumetwo.
income statement unless the entity has elected to present gains and losses 01 The determination of impairments on non-trading equity investments against assets that are carried at individually elected directly through amortised cost and impairments relating comprehensive income.
With reference to available-for-sale fi financial assets to fi financial liabilities held at fair value, involves the assessment of future cash the standard proposes that changes fl ows which is judgemental in nature to fair value attributable to credit risk is taken directly to other comprehensive Refer to pages 31 to 43 income without recycling.
These are in volume two in the risk current deliberations which may result in management section for further limited modifi cations to IFRS 9 relating analysis on impairments.
to classifi cation and measurement The groups income tax charge and Impairment methodology: the key balance sheet provision are judgemental change is related to a shift from an in nature.
This arises from certain incurred loss to an expected loss transactions for which the ultimate tax impairment methodology.
Revisions treatment can only be determined by 32 Investec integrated annual report 2014
