FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Capitalised employment contract payments Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are categorised into one of two The Group makes payments to certain key employees in recognition of categories: them signing a long-term employment contact, usually three to five years.
These payments are capitalised as intangible assets since legal rights 1 Investments and deposits consist mainly of fixed term deposits, protect the expected benefits that the Group will derive from the contracts.
bonds and certificates of deposit.
These investments are held at fair value and are classified between current and non-current assets The asset recognised is then amortised over the duration of the according to the maturity date.
underlying contract within salaries and associated expenses.
2 Other investments include securities and other investments held for Other strategic purposes.
These investments are held at fair value unless a For acquisitions completed after 1st January 2004, the business acquired fair value cannot be accurately determined in which case they are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
is reviewed to identify assets that meet the definition of an intangible asset per IAS 38.
Examples of such assets include customer contracts, Interest on deposits and interest-bearing investments is credited as it expectations of business renewal and contract related customer is earned.
These assets are valued on the basis of the present value Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the of future cash flows and are amortised to the income statement over the trade date - the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the life of the contract or their estimated economic life.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction estimated economic life is fifteen years.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and the Group has Impairment of assets transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-forAssets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation sale assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in The fair values of quoted investments are determined based upon current circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance cash flows cash-generating units.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement as part of finance income when the Groups Property, plant and equipment right to receive payments is established.
Assets are stated at their net book amount historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of Offsetting financial instruments the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the cost of such assets over their estimated useful lives.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally The principal rates of depreciation are as follows: enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be Freehold land and buildings - between 0% and 2% per annum.
enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, Leasehold improvements - between 10% and 20% per annum or insolvency or bankruptcy of the company or the counterparty.
over the life of the lease.
Insurance broking receivables and payables Furniture and office equipment - between 10% and 20% per annum.
Insurance brokers act as agents in placing the insurable risks of their clients with insurers and, as such, are not liable as principals for amounts Computer hardware - between 20% and 100% per annum.
In recognition of this relationship, debtors Motor vehicles - between 25% and 33 1 3% per annum.
from insurance broking transactions are not included as an asset of the The depreciation rates are reviewed on an annual basis.
Other than the receivable for fees and commissions earned on a transaction, no recognition of the insurance transaction occurs until the Financial assets Group receives cash in respect of premiums or claims, at which time a The Group classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables and corresponding liability is established in favour of the insurer or the client.
The classification depends upon the In certain circumstances, the Group advances premiums, refunds or purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management claims to insurance underwriters or clients prior to collection.
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
These advances are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet as part Loans and receivables of trade receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Trade receivables determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
after the balance sheet date.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
Loans and due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial receivables are carried at amortised cost.
difficulties of the debtor, dispute, default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the receivable is impaired.
88 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an A qualified actuary updates these valuations to 31st December each year.
allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the For the purposes of these annual updates, scheme assets are included at income statement.
market value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method: these liabilities are discounted at When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the the current rate of return of an AA corporate bond of equivalent currency allowance account for trade receivables.
The defined benefit surplus or deficit is calculated as the Cash and cash equivalents present value of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of the plan assets and is included on the Groups balance sheet.
Surpluses are Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call included only to the extent that they are recoverable through reduced with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original contributions in the future or through refunds from the schemes.
The net maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within interest on the defined benefit liability asset is included within finance borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses, including differences between the Trade payables expected and actual return on scheme assets, are recognised through Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
measured at amortised cost except for deferred and contingent A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays consideration which is always measured at fair value based on the fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or underlying criteria of each transaction.
constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not Borrowings hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an employee service in the current and prior periods.
unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months The costs of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are after the balance sheet date.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair charged to the income statement in the period in which they fall due.
value, net of transaction costs incurred.
They are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Deferred income tax compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in The charge for taxation is based on the result for the year at current rates exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
of tax and takes into account deferred tax.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It nor taxable profit or loss, it is not recognised.
Deferred income tax is recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs deferred income tax liability is settled.
are credited to share capital at nominal value and share premium excess over nominal value when the options are exercised.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited to equity in respect of any items, which is itself either charged or credited directly to equity.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Any subsequent recognition of the deferred gain or loss in the A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether consolidated income statement is accompanied by the corresponding legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable deferred income tax.
that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Where appropriate the Group discounts provisions to their present value.
probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the The unwinding of the provision discounting is included as an interest temporary differences can be utilised.
expense within finance costs in the income statement.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on Revenue investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference Fees and commissions and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Fees and commissions are derived from three principal sources: foreseeable future.
Insurance broking Employee benefits Income relating to insurance broking is accounted for at the later of policy Pension costs inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes, confirmed.
and a number of employees are members of defined contribution Where there is an expectation of future servicing requirements an element pension schemes.
of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the associated Full actuarial valuations of the Groups main defined benefit schemes are contractual obligation.
carried out at least every three years.
89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Employee benefits Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
Income relating to employee benefit services includes fees and Where the forecasted transaction or firm commitment results in the commissions.
Fees are charged on a time-cost or fixed-fee basis and recognition of a non-financial asset or of a non-financial liability, the gains are recognised in line with the performance of the underlying service.
and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and Commission is recognised upon confirmation of the underlying policy included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the consolidated Other services income statement and classified as income or expense in the same periods during which the hedged firm commitment or forecasted Fees and other income receivable are recognised in the period to which transaction affects the income statement.
they relate and when they can be measured with reasonable certainty.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Investment income immediately in the income statement.
Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer relating to fiduciary funds and is recognised on an accruals basis.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss Exceptional items existing in equity at that time remains in the hedging reserves and is Exceptional items are separately identified to provide greater recognised when the committed or forecasted transaction ultimately is understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
Items classified as recognised in the income statement.
When a committed or forecasted exceptional items include: gains or losses arising from the sale of transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss businesses and investments: closure costs for businesses: restructuring that was reported in equity is immediately recognised in the income costs: professional fees in respect of acquisitions: post acquisition statement.
integration costs: and other credits and charges of non-recurring nature Dividend distribution that require inclusion in order to provide additional insight into the Dividends proposed or declared after the balance sheet date are not underlying business performance.
Items of a non-recurring and material recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Final dividends are nature are charged or credited to operating profit and are classified to the recognised as a charge to equity once approved and interim dividends appropriate income statement headings.
To assist in the analysis and understanding of the underlying trading Financial and capital risk management position of the Group these items are summarised within the operating The Groups exposure to financial risks and its financial and capital profit, note 3 on page 96, under the heading of Exceptional items.
management policies are detailed in the Finance Directors Review and Leases the Risk Management Report on pages 39 to 42.
Assets held under leasing agreements, which transfer substantially all the Critical accounting estimates and judgments risks and rewards of ownership to the Group are included in property, Estimates and judgments used in preparing the financial statements are plant and equipment.
The capital elements of the related lease obligations continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other are included in liabilities.
The interest elements of the lease obligations are factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be charged to the income statement over the period of the lease term.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is equal the related actual results.
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the The estimates and assumptions that have a significant effect on the lease term.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
a Fair value estimation Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line available-for-sale is based upon quoted market prices at the balance basis over the period of the lease.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
Derivative financial instruments The Group only enters into derivative financial instruments in order to The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and hedge underlying financial and commercial exposures.
payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair values of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently resimilar financial instruments.
measured at their fair value.
The fair value of acquired intangible assets is estimated based upon the The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent on the present value of modelled related expected future cash flows.
nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a b Impairment of assets recognised asset or liability fair value hedge, a hedge of a forecasted The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have transaction or of the foreign currency risk on a firm commitment cash indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate investment hedges.
that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is fair value hedges and that are highly effective, are recorded in the income determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset managements assumptions and estimates.
This determination requires or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, 90 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value of an The outcome of the currently pending and future proceedings cannot be investment is less than its cost: and the financial health of and near-term predicted with certainty.
Thus, an adverse decision in a current or future business outlook for the investment, including factors such as industry lawsuit could result in additional costs that are not covered, either wholly and sector performance, changes in regional economies and operational or partially, under insurance policies and are in excess of the presently and financing cash flow.
It is possible therefore that the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Group could be materially A 0.5% increase in the relevant discount rate would not have created an affected by the unfavourable outcome of litigation.
Future developments c Income taxes The following standards and amendments to existing standards have The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision beginning on or after 1st January 2015 or later periods, but the Group for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which has not adopted them early.
the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of determination is made.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed d Pension obligations measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number comprehensive income OCI and fair value through profit or loss.
of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and of assumptions.
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
The assumption used in determining the net cost or income for pension Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair obligations is a discount rate based upon high quality corporate bonds.
value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now a new Any changes in the assumptions may impact the carrying amount of expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment pension obligations, the charge in the income statement, or statement of model used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to comprehensive income.
classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at year.
This is the interest rate that should be used to determine the fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
to settle the pension obligations.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the management actually use for risk management purposes.
currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to maturity approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective for assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current market accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
As well as the discount rate, the inflation rates and life is permitted subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is yet to assess expectancy are also key assumptions.
To set the price inflation assumptions the Group considers market IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue expectations of inflation at the appropriate durations.
Adjustments are recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to made to these rates where necessary to reflect an inflation risk premium.
users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts In determining the life expectancy assumptions the Group considers the with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control mortality assumptions used by the Trustees of the pension schemes in of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain their latest actuarial valuations and also mortality guidance laid out by the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 legislation.
This enables the Group to determine a best estimate of life Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related expectancy that is appropriate for accounting purposes.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted subject to e Errors and omissions liability EU endorsement.
The Group is in the process of assessing the full During the ordinary course of business the Group can be subject impact of IFRS 15 and this work will continue through 2015.
Based on to claims for errors and omissions made in connection with its our initial assessment this standard will impact many areas of the broking activities.
It is expected that it will lead to an acceleration of income A balance sheet provision is established in respect of such claims recognition and the quantum of recognition will become more when it is probable that the liability has been incurred and the amount judgemental.
As a consequence of this, there will be an increase in trade of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
receivables and working capital, as the timing of income recognition and its collection in cash move further apart.
Quantification of the impact The Group analyses its litigation exposures based on available cannot be given at this time.
information, including external legal consultation where appropriate, to assess its potential liability.
91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31st December 2014 1.
Alternative income statement The format of the consolidated income statement on page 81 conforms to the requirements of IFRS.
The alternative income statement set out below, which is provided by way of additional information, has been prepared on a basis that conforms more closely to the approach adopted by the Group in assessing its performance.
The statement provides a reconciliation between the underlying results used by the Group to assess performance and the IFRS income statement.
Year ended 31st December 2014 Underlying Exceptional profit items Total 000 000 000 Fees and commissions 1,099,728 - 1,099,728 Investment income 4,398 - 4,398 Salaries and associated expenses 656,323 15,435 671,758 Premises 55,576 2,351 57,927 Other operating costs 167,258 5,168 172,426 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 28,139 - 28,139 Trading profit 196,830 22,954 173,876 Finance costs - net 21,446 - 21,446 Share of results of associates 7,660 354 7,306 Profit before taxation 183,044 23,308 159,736 Year ended 31st December 2013 Underlying Exceptional profit items Total 000 000 000 Fees and commissions 974,623 - 974,623 Investment income 4,529 - 4,529 Salaries and associated expenses 569,716 11,252 580,968 Premises 48,229 5,409 53,638 Other operating costs 151,175 6,211 157,386 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 24,667 - 24,667 Trading profit 185,365 22,872 162,493 Finance costs - net 16,035 - 16,035 Share of results of associates 8,106 - 8,106 Profit before taxation 177,436 22,872 154,564 92 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 2.
Segment information Management has determined its operating segments based on the analysis used to make strategic decisions.
Business segment analysis The Group is organised on a worldwide basis into three main segments: Risk & Insurance, Employee Benefits and Head Office & Other operations.
These segments are consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
The Risk & Insurance segment comprises JLTs global specialist, wholesale, reinsurance broking, personal lines and SME activities.
The Employee Benefits segment consists of pension administration, outsourcing and employee benefits consultancy, healthcare and wealth management activities.
Certain Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits operating segments have been disclosed within the reporting segments given their individual size.
The Head Office & Other segment consists mainly of holding companies, central administration functions, the Groups captive insurance companies and the Groups investments in associates.
JLT Re and JLT Asia are now disclosed as reportable segments to meet the quantitative threseholds required by IFRS 8.
During the year, the Group has reclassified the Middle East and North Africa business which was reported previously in JLT Specialty to the Middle East and Africa segment included in Other Risk & Insurance.
Segment results Management assesses the performance of the operating segments based upon a measure of underlying trading profit.
Segment results include the net income or expense derived from the trading activities of the segment together with the investment income earned on fiduciary funds.
Interest income on the Groups own funds and finance costs are excluded since the trading activities of the Groups primary segments are not of a financial nature.
Income tax expense and the charge in respect of non-controlling interests are excluded from the segmental allocation.
Segment assets and liabilities Assets and liabilities are not allocated to individual segments and are therefore all reported within Head Office & Other.
Investments in associates The Group owns the following stakes in its principal associates: 26 per cent in Milestone, the holding company of Siaci Saint Honor, which operates principally in France: 20 per cent of GrECo which operates mainly in Austria and Eastern Europe: 25 per cent of MAG-JLT which operates mainly in Italy: and 25 per cent of March-JLT which operates mainly in Spain.
On 2nd July 2014, the Group acquired a 26% shareholding in JLT Independent Insurance Brokers Private Ltd which operates in India.
The investment and the Groups share of the net profit of these associates are included in the Head Office & Other segment, together with the investment and results of the Groups other associates, Sterling Re Intermediaro fide Reaseguro SA fide CV, JLT Insurance Management Malta and JLT Energy France SAS.
Per note 14, the Group had received an offer for purchase of its stake in Siaci Saint Honor.
Other segment items Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets.
