Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for Group companies as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Associates i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated at 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable using the equity method of accounting.
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified comprehensive income.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of net If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, such where appropriate.
exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its in other comprehensive income.
interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Goodwill arising on consolidation Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates subsidiary associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
subsidiaries is shown separately on the Balance Sheet.
Goodwill on Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the associates have been modified where necessary to ensure Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1st January 1998 was consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
written off directly to reserves.
Following the adoption of IFRS this goodwill remains written off to reserves and no adjustment would be Segment reporting made on subsequent disposal.
For acquisitions completed on or after 1st Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal January 1998 and before 1st January 2004, goodwill is stated on the reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief balance sheet at its previously amortised net book value.
operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost or assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as previously amortised net book value for before 2004 less accumulated the Chief Executive Officer.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include Foreign currencies the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units, or groups of cash generating units, for Functional and presentation currency the purpose of impairment testing.
Cash generating units represent the Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities lowest level of geographical and business segment combinations that the are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in Group uses for internal reporting purposes.
which the entity operates the functional currency.
Other intangible assets The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Computer software Acquired computer software licenses are capitalised on the basis of the Transactions and balances costs incurred to acquire them and bring them to use.
These costs are Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Costs associated with using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such expense as incurred.
transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Direct costs include the software development Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain Computer software development costs recognised as assets are or loss.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities amortised over their estimated useful lives.
classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are included in other comprehensive income.
The rates of amortisation are between 14% and 100% per annum.
