FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 31st December 2014 Basis of preparation Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Subsidiaries in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRS IC Group has control.
interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to Companies The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights reporting under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have been to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is through profit and loss.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2014 The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2014: of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are of the Parent company.
The standard provides additional guidance to measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
 basis, the Group recognises any nonThe amendment had no effect on the Group financial statements.
controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the nonIFRS 11, Joint arrangements focuses on the rights and obligations of controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are two Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where the investors have rights to the assets and If a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the obligations for the liabilities of an arrangement.
A joint operator accounts Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to for its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
ventures arise where the investors have rights to the net assets of the Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is arrangement: joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to Proportional consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer permitted.
the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an The amendment had no effect on the Group financial statements.
asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the loss or as a charge to other comprehensive income.
Contingent disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its including joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and other subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nonAmendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation on offsetting controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment clarifies that any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event.
It must identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the total of also be legally enforceable for all counterparties in the normal course of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and business, as well as in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy.
previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net The amendment also considers settlement mechanisms.
The amendment assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the had no effect on the Group financial statements.
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on the recoverable Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on amount disclosures for non-financial assets.
This amendment removed transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The amendment had no consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
impact on the Groups disclosure.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of measurement on the novation of derivatives and the continuation of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, as transactions hedge accounting.
This amendment considers legislative changes to with the owners in their capacity as owners.
over-the-counter derivatives and the establishment of central The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the counterparties.
Under IAS 39 novation of derivatives to central relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the counterparties would result in discontinuance of hedge accounting.
subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to nonThe amendment provides relief from discontinuing hedge accounting controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
when novation of a hedging instrument meets specified criteria.
The amendment had no impact on the Group financial statements.
Disposal of subsidiaries IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay a levy When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the entity if that liability is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions.
The interpretation is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the addresses what the obligating event is that gives rise to pay a levy and change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
when a liability should be recognised.
The Group is not currently The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subjected to significant levies so the impact on the Group is not material.
subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised 86
