178 Financial statements Financial statements of BT Group plc Cash BT Group plc accounting policies Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Accounting basis As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term Share-based payments ncompany refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial statements The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
However, the issuance by the company of share options and awards to The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
An addition to the companys investment in The principal accounting policies are set out below and have been subsidiaries is recorded with a corresponding increase in equity applied consistently throughout the year and the previous year.
The additional capital contribution is determined based on the fair value of options and awards at the date of grant and The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and is recognised over the vesting period.
under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
Other information As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, Dividends the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
The Board recommends that a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014 of 7.5p 2012 13 6.5p will be paid to shareholders The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year on 8{September 2014, taking the full year proposed dividend in respect ended 31 March 2014 contain a consolidated cash ow statement.
This dividend is subject to Consequently, as permitted by FRS 1 nCash ow statements, the shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting and therefore the company has decided not to present its own cash ow statement.
liability of approximately 611m 2012 13 514m has not been included in these financial statements.
The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 contain related party disclosures.
Employees Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption The Chairman, the executive directors and the Group General Counsel in FRS 8, nRelated Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions & Company Secretary of BT{Group plc were the only employees with other members of the BT Group.
The costs relating to qualifying The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended services provided to the companys principal subsidiary, British 31 March 2014 contain financial instrument disclosures which comply Telecommunications plc, are recharged to that company.
with FRS 29, nFinancial Instruments Disclosures.
Consequently, the Audit fees company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 in The audit fee in respect of the parent company was 41,000 2012 13 respect of its financial instruments.
Fees payable to  LLP for non-audit Investments in subsidiary undertakings services to the company are not required to be disclosed as they are Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost and reviewed included within note 7 to the consolidated financial statements of for impairment if there are indicators that the carrying value may not BT{Group plc.
Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing dierences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it{is regarded as more likely than not that there will be sucient taxable profits from which the underlying timing dierences can be deducted.
The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Dividends Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid final dividends when authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Repurchased shares of the company are recorded in the balance sheet as part of Own shares and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
