118 Financial statements United Kingdom opinion Overview of our audit approach Report of the independent auditors to the Materiality members of BT Group plc consolidated We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate Report on the consolidated financial statements the eect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial Our opinion statements as whole.
In our opinion the group financial statements, dened below Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the r give a true and fair view of the state of the groups aairs as at group financial statements as a whole to be 110m 2012 13 100m, 31 March 2014 and of the groups profit and cash ows for the which is an average of 5% of profit before tax for the current year and year then ended the previous three years.
We used average profit before tax to reduce the r have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial potential volatility in the measure year on year.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to r have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the them misstatements identied during our audit above 5m as well as Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB The group financial statements are a consolidation of the groups As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in addition reporting units, which include operating businesses and centralised to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied functions.
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRS as issued the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by by the IASB.
us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network rms operating under our instruction.
Where What we have audited the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the The group financial statements, which are prepared by BT Group plc, level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those comprise reporting units to be able to conclude whether sucient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the r the group balance sheet as at 31 March 2014 consolidated financial statements as a whole.
r the group income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended For three reporting units, an audit of the complete financial information r the group statement of changes in equity and cash ow statement was performed.
In a further four reporting units, specic audit for the year then ended and procedures on revenue and receivables, purchases and payables, r the notes to the group financial statements, which include a summary cash and provisions were performed.
This, together with additional of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
procedures performed on centralised functions and at the group level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their financial statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures covered over preparation comprises applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the 80% of the groups revenue and profit before tax.
Areas of particular audit focus Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of have{been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & Form 20-F subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 2014 the{nAnnual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work and are identied as audited.
in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available What an audit of financial statements involves evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards in{the financial statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland nISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to statements sucient to give reasonable assurance that the financial provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by evidence through testing the eectiveness of controls, substantive fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of procedures or a combination of both.
r whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups We considered the following areas to be those that required particular circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas disclosed of focus identied by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with r the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Audit & Risk Committee.
The matters that they considered to be the directors and significant issues in relation to the financial statements are set out on r the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Financial statements 119 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Major contracts in BT Global Services and BT Wholesale We evaluated the design and operating eectiveness of controls in We focused on this area because it involves significant judgements respect of major contracts.
We tested a sample of major contracts regarding the through the year, assessing whether the terms of the contracts, including change notes and contractual amendments, r determination and timing of recognition of contract profits had been accounted for in line with the groups accounting policies.
r lifetime probability forecasts for the contracts We assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions and r completeness and adequacy of provisions against loss making judgements underpinning the forecast performance of the contracts and contracts, the adequacy of contract loss provisions and the r recoverability of contract specic assets.
recoverability of contract specic assets.
Revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and the design and operating ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue eectiveness of controls over the capture and recording of revenue recognition because of the pressure management may be under to transactions.
We tested the supporting evidence for manual journal achieve the planned results.
Our risk assessment focused on manual entries posted to revenue accounts to identify unusual items.
This included the audit of the reconciliation of amounts billed to customers to the amount of revenue recorded in the financial statements.
The accuracy of revenue amounts recorded is an inherent industry risk Our audit work focused on the internal controls in place over the because of the complexity of the operation of telecom billing systems authorisation of rate changes and the input of this information to and the combination of products sold and price changes in the year.
We tested the internal controls in place over the calculation of amounts billed to customers.
We also tested a sample of customer bills for accuracy.
Our testing included customer bills for consumers, corporate and wholesale customers.
Risk of management override of internal controls We assessed the overall control environment of the group, including ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider the risk that management the arrangements for sta to nwhistleblow inappropriate actions, could override the system of internal controls within the business and and interviewed senior management and the groups internal audit intentionally misstate the financial results and position of the group.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We also tested the supporting documentation for manual journal entries posted to the financial results.
This included the testing of journals posted to the consolidation.
Valuation of the pension scheme obligations and unquoted We assessed the reasonableness of actuarial assumptions used in investments valuing the pension scheme obligations.
In assessing the unquoted We focused on this area because the valuation of the pension pension asset investments we tested the valuations, including scheme obligations and unquoted investments require estimates assessing the key assumptions used.
and significant judgement by the directors.
Regulatory and other provisions We assessed the key assumptions applied by the directors to calculate Provisions are based on judgements and estimates by the directors.
We tested the calculation of the The current telecom regulatory environment has seen an increased provisions, validating assumptions by reference to third party frequency and magnitude of matters brought to Ofcom and the data and assessing the judgements for reasonableness against Competition Appeal Tribunal in the UK.
Capitalisation practices and asset lives for property, plant and We evaluated the design and operating eectiveness of controls equipment and software intangible assets in respect of capitalisation and asset lives.
We assessed the Capitalisation of costs and the useful lives assigned to assets are areas appropriateness of the nature of costs being capitalised through of{significant judgement by the directors.
testing of amounts recorded and assessing the appropriateness of the accounting treatment.
We{assessed the appropriateness of the asset lives assigned.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in the BT Global We evaluated the key assumptions used in the impairment review, Services line of business in particular the cash ows, long term growth rates and the discount We focused on this area because it involves complex and subjective rate.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers judgements by the directors, including about the future results of of the cash ow forecasts, including revenue and EBITDA growth.
We tested the integrity of the{underlying{calculations.
Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and We assessed the appropriateness of the directors assumptions and tax{assets key judgements around actual and potential tax exposures and We focused on this area because the directors have made significant assets.
We{utilised our experience of similar situations elsewhere judgements in determining the groups eective tax rate specically to{examine tax planning arrangements.
in{relation to the recognition of tax exposures and tax assets.
Financial statements 120 Financial statements Going concern Other information in the Annual Report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our statement, set out on page 111, in relation to going concern.
opinion, information in the Annual Report is We have nothing to report having performed our review.
r materially inconsistent with the information in the audited group As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that financial statements or it is appropriate to prepare the groups financial statements using the r apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that our audit or the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the r is otherwise misleading.
As part of our audit we have concluded We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue Our responsibilities and those of the directors as a going concern.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 2006 true and fair view.
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing financial statements.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters on which we are required to report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for by exception the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do Adequacy of information and explanations received not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from consent in writing.
Directors remuneration Other matter Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We have reported separately on the parent company financial in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014 and by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is from this responsibility.
described as having been audited.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the nCode.
We have no exceptions to report arising from our review.
On page 111 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken for and on behalf of  LLP as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors information necessary for members to assess the groups performance, London business model and strategy.
On page 84, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit & Risk Committee has set out the significant issues that 7 May 2014 it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion r the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit or r the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
