Financial statements 181 Subsidiary undertakings a b The table below gives brief details of the groups principal operating subsidiaries at 31 March 2014.
All subsidiaries are unlisted and held through an intermediate holding company, unless otherwise stated.
No subsidiaries are excluded from the group consolidation.
The group did not have any significant associates or joint ventures at 31 March 2014.
Group interest Country c d Subsidiary undertakings Activity in allotted capital of operation British Telecommunications plc Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK d BT Americas Inc Communications related services, systems integration and 100% common International products provider BT Australasia Pty Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference BT Business Direct Limited Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK b BT Communications do Brasil Limitada Communications related services, technology consulting 100% common Bra]il and products provider BT Communications Ireland Limited Telecommunications services provider 100% ordinary Republic of Ireland BT Conferencing Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US BT Conferencing Video Inc Audio, video and web collaboration services provider 100% common US BT Convergent Solutions Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Engage IT Limited IT solutions provider 100% ordinary UK BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Globales Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain fide Telecommunicaciones, SA BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK BT France SA Communications related services, systems integration and 100% ordinary France products provider BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany BT Global Communications India Private Communications related services 74% ordinary India Limited BT Global Services Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary UK BT Holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK BT Hong Kong Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Hong Kong 100% preference BT Italia SpA Communications related services and products provider 98.6% ordinary Italy b BT LatAm Brasil Ltda Data communication services 100% common Bra]il BT Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary International BT Managed Services Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Nederland NV Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands BT Payment Services Limited Payment services provider 100% ordinary UK BT Services SA Technology consulting and engineering services 100% ordinary France BT Singapore Pte Ltd Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Singapore BT Swit]erland AG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Swit]erland Communications Global Network Services Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary International d Limited Communications Networking Services UK Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK dabs.
com plc Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK Infonet Services Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common US Plusnet plc Broadband service provider 100% ordinary UK Radian] Americas Inc Global managed network service provider 100% common US 100% preference a The group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore includes only those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return led with the Registrar of Companies.
b The principal operating subsidiaries listed above have a reporting date of 31{March, except for entities domiciled in Brazil, due to regulatory reTuirements.
c The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
d All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except BT Americas Inc and Communications Global Network Services imited which are incorporated in the 8S and Bermuda, respectively.
Financial statements Restoring connections in{an emergency Voice of the customer Over the decades BT has reached out In November 2013, BT once again to help people recover from natural mobilised its entire network to help raise disasters most recently in the aftermath funds for the DECs Philippines Typhoon of Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated Appeal, with many employees going over the{Philippines.
and above their normal roles.
On behalf When a natural disaster strikes, re-establishing communications of{the communities you have helped links is crucial to any wider relief eort.
Thats where BTs Emergency{Response Team ERT comes in.
Staed by skilled over{the years, I want to say thank you.
BT{personnel, the{ERT does whatever it takes to get phone and Without BTs valuable support we could broadband links up{and running.
The ERT is one part of our Better Future programme, a series of initiatives to full our commitment to being a responsible and Saleh Saeed CEO, Disasters Emergency Committee sustainable business.
Another of the initiatives is our commissionfree online giving platform, MyDonate.
One aspect of the MyDonate To nd out more, visit service focuses on telethons and appeals - such as the one we www.
com betterfuture helped the UKs Disasters Emergency Committee with after Typhoon{Haiyan.
#AskDEC was the number one trending topic on Twitter in the UK during DECs Philippines No.
1 appeal at the BT Tower The DEC took 10 million in the first{37 hours of the Typhoon 37 hrs Haiyan appeal Raised for Children in Need and DEC Philippines appeals in one week using our commission-free BTs Emergency Response Team pictured after successfully 30m online giving platform MyDonate installing a satellite communications unit in Roxas City, Capi], Philippines as part of our response to Typhoon Haiyan in 2013.
A nVSAT unit was used to provide voice and data connections Raised by our employees for NGOs and charities based there, enabling them to plan and this year for various implement their relief eorts.
charities through their own 39,500 fundraising{activities Voice from BT Im proud to lead a team thats uniTue in{every Increase in the number of donations year on year to way.
The commitment, enthusiasm, and{skills of 60% support a variety of good causes our ERT members are second to none.
At times of crisis you need to pull together and work as one team the ERT does exactly that.
Craig Thorpe Head of ERT, BT Technology, Service & Operations
