22 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Operating Committee The key management committee is the Operating Committee, which meets weekly and is chaired by the Chief [ecutive.
Brief details of its members are set out below.
Invitee The Operating Committee is responsible for running our business and agreed by{the Board prepares and delivers major programmes delivering our strategy.
It monitors the groupos financial, operational and and reviews the senior talent base and succession arrangements.
customer service performance and has cross-business oversight of the The Operating Committee can approve, up to certain limits which lines of business.
It also reviews the groupos key risks and considers the are set by the Board, capital{e[penditure, disposals of [ed assets, potential threats to and opportunities for the business.
It can, and has, delegated some of these approvals to sub-committees, such as the Design Council, The Operating Committee develops BTos strategy and budgets for and{to senior e[ecutives.
The{Company Secretary attends all meetings the Boardos approval recommends to the Board capital e[penditure of{the{Operating{Committee.
and investment budgets allocates resources across BT within plans a Gavin Patterson Clive Selley Chief Executive CEO, BT Technology, Service & Operations and Group CIO Appointed Chief [ecutive in September 2013.
Gavin was formerly C O, Appointed C O, BT Technology, Service Operations inanuary 2013.
BT Retail and prior to that Managing Director, BT Consumer, BT Retail.
Clive was formerly C O, BT Innovate Design and prior to that 3resident of 3ortfolio Service Design.
Clive joined BT in 1986 and has held a Tony Chanmugam positions in most of BTos lines of business.
Group Finance Director Appointed Group Finance Director in December 2008.
Tony was formerly Nigel Stagg CFO, BT Retail and Managing Director, BT nterprises.
CEO, BT Wholesale Appointed C O, BT Wholesale in September 2011.
1igel was formerly Luis Alvarez Managing Director, BT Business, BT Retail and prior to that Managing CEO, BT Global Services Director, Customer Service, BT Retail.
1igel joined BT in 1979 and has Appointed C O, BT Global Services in October 2012. uis was formerly held a wide range of roles including C O, BT Conferencing.
president of the urope, Middle ast, Africa and atin America operations of BT Global Services.
Before joining BT, uis worked at Graham Sutherland ricsson, IBM and Group Santander.
CEO, BT Business Appointed C O, BT Business in September 2013.
Graham was formerly Clare Chapman Managing Director, BT Business, BT Retail and prior to that C O of BT Group People Director Ireland.
Before joining BT, Graham held a number of senior management Appointed Group 3eople Director in October 2011.
Before joining BT, positions including managing director of 1T in the Republic of Ireland.
Clare was director general of workforce for the 1 S and Social Care at the Department of ealth.
Clare was also previously group personnel Joe Garner Invitee director at Tesco.
CEO, Openreach Appointed C O, Openreach in February 2014.
Before joining BT, John Petteroe was head of the UK bank at SBC.
-oe has e[tensive e[perience CEO, BT Consumer in customer service and programme delivery.
The C O of Openreach Appointed C O, BT Consumer in September 2013.
-ohn was formerly cannot be a member of the Operating Committee under the Managing Director, BT Consumer, BT Retail and prior to that Chief b provisions of the Undertakings.
Operating Ocer in BT Consumer.
Before joining BT, -ohn held roles as marketing and commercial director at Telewest now 9irgin Media and brand manager at 3rocter Gamble.
a Directors of BT roup plc.
ou will nd their full biographies on pages 78 and 7. b ou will nd more information on the 8ndertakings on page 4.
