Financial statements 121 United States opinion Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we Report of independent registered public considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits accounting rm to the Board of directors and provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
shareholders of BT Group plc the ncompany A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of In our opinion, the accompanying group income statements, group financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for statements of comprehensive income, group balance sheets, group external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting statements of changes in equity and group cash ow statements present principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BT Group plc and those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of its subsidiaries at 31 March 2014 and 2013 and the results of their records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reect the operations and cash ows for each of the three years in the period transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company ii provide ended 31 March 2014, in conformity with International Financial reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally Standards Board.
Also, in our opinion the company maintained, in all accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of material respects, eective internal control over financial reporting as of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of 31{March 2014, based on criteria established in the Turnbull Guidance.
management and directors of the company and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised The companys management is responsible for these financial acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have statements, for maintaining eective internal control over financial a{material eect on the financial statements.
reporting and for its assessment of the eectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in managements evaluation of the As set out in note 1, the group adopted IAS{19 nEmployee Benets eectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as set out in Revised{2011 with eect from 1 April 2013. the first two paragraphs of Internal control over financial reporting in Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial Governance, General Information, of the BT Group plc Annual Report reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections &{Form 20-F. of{any evaluation of eectiveness to future periods are subject to Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements the risk{that controls may become inadequate because of changes and on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the procedures may{deteriorate.
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether eective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial  LLP statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant London, United Kingdom estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial 7 May 2014 reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating eectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
