Critical accounting estimates and key judgements 3. significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in preparation of these continued consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group provides have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is considered otherwise stated.
probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged are regulated and may Revenue be subject to retrospective adjustment by regulators.
Estimates are Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
For all risks, receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to to the group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be contingent liabilities see note 29 through assessing the likelihood that measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the possible it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
Services Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is Current and deferred income tax recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to complex of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised evenly tax laws and regulations.
Where the eect of these laws and regulations over the period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is recognised at is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for the tax to be the time the call is made over the groups network.
Subscription fees, paid on our past profits which we recognise in our financial statements.
consisting primarily of monthly charges for access to broadband and We believe the estimates, assumptions and judgements are reasonable other internet access or voice services, are recognised as revenue as the but this can involve complex issues which may take a number of years service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data to resolve.
The final determination of prior year tax liabilities could be trac between other telecommunications operators is recognised at the dierent from the estimates reected in the financial statements and time of transit across the groups network.
may result in the recognition of an additional tax expense or tax credit Equipment sales in the income statement.
Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and accepted by used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be the customer.
recognised, taking into account the expected timing and level of future Long-term contractual arrangements taxable income.
Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements including xed price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised based The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is disclosed on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is on the balance sheet on page 124.
The carrying value of the groups estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 9. the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred relative to the Goodwill estimated total contract costs, or other measures of completion such The recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs has been as the achievement of contract milestones and customer acceptance.
determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations In the case of time and materials contracts, revenue is recognised as the require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of service is rendered.
future revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual cash ows for each CGU.
arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs incurred in the initial contract set up, transition or transformation As a result of the split of BT Retail into two separate businesses, phase, which is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
These BT{Business and BT Consumer, as set out on page 127, the BT Retail CGU costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line has been reected as two separate CGUs, BT Business and BT Consumer.
basis over the remaining contract term, unless the pattern of service Goodwill previously within BT Retail was reallocated accordingly.
delivery indicates a dierent prole is appropriate.
These costs are The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in note 12. will generate future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
Providing for doubtful debts BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include such factors as the current state of the economy and particular industry issues.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in note 16.
Financial statements 130 Financial statements The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customer-facing 3. significant accounting policies continued lines of business to reect the services it provides to them.
Depreciation The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to the networks and expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer-facing of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the financial outcome lines of business is allocated to the lines of business based on their of a contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty, no attributable respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by BT{TSO for specic profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised projects undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing lines of business equal to the costs incurred to date, to the extent that such revenue is is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure expected to be recoverable, or costs are accrued to bring the margin to incurred.
Where projects are not directly attributable to a particular line nil.
Recognised revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the of business, capital expenditure is allocated between them based contract if the assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are on the proportion of estimated future economic benets.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in and the groups centralised functions are not reportable segments as the period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
they did not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS{8 Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the nOperating Segments for any of the years presented.
estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on adjusted EBITDA, dened as EBITDA before specic items, as included Multiple element arrangements in the internal financial reports reviewed by the Operating Committee.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or loss before depreciation, elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, revenue is amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is recognised for each element as if it were an individual contract.
The total considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of the contract consideration is allocated between the separate elements on lines of business because it approximates to the underlying operating the basis of relative fair value and the appropriate revenue recognition cash ow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also provides criteria are applied to each element as described above.
a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding specic Operating and reportable segments items, which are disclosed separately by virtue of their si]e, nature or incidence.
Specic items are detailed in note{8 and are not allocated to The groups operating segments are reported based on financial the reportable segments as this reects how they are reported to the information provided to the Operating Committee, as detailed on Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income are not allocated to page{22, which is the key management committee and represents the reportable segments, as the central treasury function manages this the nchief operating decision maker.
activity, together with the overall net debt position of the group.
During the year, BT Retail split into two separate businesses, BT Business and BT Consumer.
The split enables BT to better serve its customers Retirement benets and focus even more on delivering its strategic priorities.
Each of BT The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans Business and BT Consumer meet the criteria for operating and reportable is{the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value segments, as set out in IFRS{8 nOperating Segments.
The segment of the plan assets.
disclosure reects this new structure and prior year comparative The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualied actuary information has been presented on a consistent basis.
using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial assumptions The groups organisational structure reects the dierent customer at the balance sheet date.
groups to which it provides communications products and services via The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge its customer-facing lines of business BT Global Services, BT Business, and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge reects the BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
The customer-facing lines increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting from the pension of business are supported by an internal service unit BT Technology, benefit earned by active employees in the current period and the costs Service & Operations BT TSO.
The net finance income or expense reects The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable the interest on the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
group balance sheet, based on the discount rate at the start of the The remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period within the nOther category to reconcile to the consolidated results in which they occur and are presented in the group statement of of the group.
The nOther category includes BT TSO and the groups comprehensive income.
centralised functions including procurement and supply chain, eet and The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and the property management.
income statement expense represents the contributions payable for Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and the{year.
regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are initially recorded in the nOther segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results and oset in the group results through the utilisation of the provision previously charged to the nOther segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover more than one financial year may fall within the denition of specic items as detailed on page 128.
Financial statements 131 Computer software 3. significant accounting policies continued Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased Property, plant and equipment from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of Computer software licences purchased from third parties are initially accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment recorded at cost.
Costs directly associated with the production of charges.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on internally developed software are capitalised only where it is probable disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise from that the software will generate future economic benets.
the continued use of the asset.
The dierence between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recognised in operating Telecommunications licences costs in the income statement.
Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at cost Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment and amortised from the time the network is available for use to the end are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable of the licence period.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment Customer relationships on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are recorded write o the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used in account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by the acquired businesses.
Land and buildings Estimated useful economic lives Freehold buildings 40 years The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal categories of intangible assets are as follows Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or 40 years, whichever is the shorter Computer software 2 to 10 years Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years Network infrastructure Customer relationships and brands 5 to 15 years Transmission equipment Duct 40 years Programme rights Cable 3 to 25 years Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point at Fibre 5 to 20 years which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for which the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual commitments Other network equipment 2 to 20 years in note 15.
Payments made to receive commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the programmes Other assets are classied as prepayments.
Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Computers and oce equipment 3 to 6 years Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, as appropriate.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of The amortisation charge is recorded within operating costs in the income the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and useful statement.
lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised prospectively.
Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate portion Intangible assets of relevant overheads, and charged to the income statement over the Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls period of the related broadcast.
the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be reliably Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised the groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out on over their useful economic life.
The method of amortisation reects the page{132.
Related cash outows are classied as operating cash ows pattern in which the assets are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern in the cash ow statement.
cannot be determined reliably, the straight line method is used.
Provisions Goodwill Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and intangible assets of the acquired business.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is expected to benefit current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks from the business combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions are initially represents the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using monitored for internal management purposes.
Onerous lease provisions are measured at the lower of the cost to full or to exit the contract.
Financial statements 132 Financial statements 3. significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Current and deferred income tax The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The acquirees the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair value at generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions the acquisition date.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and measured at provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the consideration, the to be paid to tax authorities.
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of if any over the net of the fair values of the identiable assets and temporary dierences between the carrying amount of the groups liabilities at the date of acquisition.
assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are oset when there is a legally enforceable right to oset Impairment of non-financial assets current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or dierent taxable circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value future against which the deductible temporary dierence can be utilised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply in Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment losses the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, based on tax are recognised in the income statement, normally as a specic item.
If a rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated rstly balance sheet date.
against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis against intangible and other assets.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Government grants BT Group plc nthe company and its subsidiaries, and they incorporate Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance its share of the results of associates and joint ventures using the equity that the conditions associated with the grants have been complied with method of accounting.
and the grants will be received.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and equipment as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when are deducted from the cost of the related assets and reduce future the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the reimbursement of involvement with the Investee and has the ability to aect those returns operating expenditure are deducted from the related category of costs through its power over the Investee.
Non-controlling interests in the net in the income statement.
Government grants received relating to future assets of consolidated subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts expenditure are recognised as payments received in advance within of those interests at the date of the original business combination Other payables.
and non-controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are not material to the groups financial statements.
Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS{37 nProvisions, The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been Foreign currencies aligned with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities disposal is calculated as the dierence between i the aggregate of denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange rates are the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets reects the nature of the item or transaction.
including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are non-controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is normally translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of recognised as a specic item.
foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative eects of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange dierences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
Financial statements 133 Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other 3. significant accounting policies continued conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken into In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and account to determine the fair value of equity instruments granted.
In the liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative translation case that an award or option does not vest as a result of a failure to meet dierence associated with the undertaking in the translation reserve a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either counterparty, is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as income statement.
accelerated vesting and all remaining future charges are immediately Research and development recognised in the income statement.
As the requirement to save under an employee saveshare arrangement is a non-vesting condition, Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the employee cancellations are treated as an accelerated vesting.
period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable statement reversing all previously recognised charges in the year that economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being in which they lapse or are forfeited.
developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an Termination benets intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and directly accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to the aected employees leaving the group.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is Financial instruments based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment Financial liabilities at amortised cost of whether the fullment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of Trade and other payables a specic asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys the right Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially to use the asset.
recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds eective interest method.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Loans and other borrowings commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other borrowings obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the eective interest of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently method and, if included in a fair value hedge relationship, are re-valued measured at amortised cost using the eective interest method.
to reect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The resulting amortisation of fair Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by value movements, on fide-designation of the hedge, is recognised in the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to the the income statement.
{ income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Available-for-sale investments Own shares Liquid and other investments are classied as available-for-sale Own shares represent the shares of the parent company BT Group plc investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct that are held in treasury or by employee share ownership trusts.
Own transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates shares are recorded at cost and deducted from equity.
When shares to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except for changes in vest unconditionally or are cancelled they are transferred from the own exchange rates for monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment shares reserve to retained earnings at their weighted average cost.
losses, which are recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the Share-based payments cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the The group operates a number of equity settled share-based payment income statement, in the line that most appropriately reects the arrangements, under which the group receives services from employees nature of the item or transaction.
On disposal or impairment of the in consideration for equity instruments share options and shares of the investments, any gains and losses that have been deferred in other group.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value comprehensive income are re-classied to the income statement.
at the date of grant excluding the eect of non market-based vesting Dividends on equity investments are recognised in the income conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and statement when the groups right to receive payment is established.
the impact of non-vesting conditions for example the requirement Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless for employees to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date they are expected to be sold within one year.
{ is recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the groups estimate of the options or shares that will Loans and receivables eventually vest and adjusted for the eect of non market-based vesting Trade and other receivables conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which pricing model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried at to the share-based payment arrangement.
amortised cost, using the eective interest method, less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions are made specically where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general economic conditions.
Financial statements 134 Financial statements Fair value hedges 3. significant accounting policies continued When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Cash and cash equivalents variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances rm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and have at each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
{ consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments are included within loans and other borrowings, in current liabilities on not yet eective the balance sheet.
{ IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss IFRS 9 nFinancial Instruments was re-issued in October 2010 and All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for trading amended in November 2013.
It is applicable to financial assets and and classied as fair value through profit or loss.
The standard covers the classication, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities together Derivative financial instruments with a new hedge accounting model.
The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce to add new requirements for impairment.
The mandatory eective date exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The groups for IFRS 9 is 1 January 2018.
The standard has not yet been endorsed policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
The group will consider the impact of IFRS 9 when the derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specically remaining phases of the IAS 39 Replacement Project are complete.
not designated as a hedge where natural oset is more appropriate are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value through Amendments to IAS 32 Osetting Financial Assets and Financial profit and loss.
Any direct transaction costs are recognised immediately Liabilities in the income statement.
Gains and losses on re-measurement are The amendments clarify existing application issues relating to the recognised in the income statement in the line that most appropriately osetting requirements.
Specically, the amendments clarify the reects the nature of the item or transaction to which they relate.
meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right of set-o and Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or a simultaneous realisation and settlementq.
The amendments are current liabilities where they have a maturity period within 12 months.
eective for the group from 1{April{2014.
The group does not expect Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity period greater these changes to have a significant impact on the groups results or than 12 months, they are classied within either non-current assets financial position.
{ There are no other standards or interpretations that are not yet eective Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition is not that would be expected to have a material impact on the group.
supported by observable market data and diers from the transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is not recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses are deferred and amortised to the income statement based on the remaining contractual term and as observable market data becomes available.
Hedge accounting Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly eective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for eectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
Cash ow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the eective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in the cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line of the income statement and in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction aects the income statement.
Any ineectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
