112 Governance General information Directors and ocers liability insurance and indemnity US Regulation For some years, BT has purchased insurance to cover the directors, New York Stock Exchange ocers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the New Group plc and its subsidiaries against defence costs, civil damages and, York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in{some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following an action in which its corporate governance practices dier from the corporate brought against them in their personal capacity.
The policy also covers governance listing standards of the NYSE.
such individuals whilst serving at the companys request as directors of{other companies or of joint ventures or on the boards of trade We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our associations or charitable organisations.
The insurance operates to corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the protect the directors and ocers directly in circumstances where, following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements by{law, {BT cannot provide an indemnity and also provides BT, subject to a set out in the standards.
These state that companies must have a retention, with cover against the cost of indemnifying a director or ocer.
nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of One layer of insurance is ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in As{at 7{May 2014, and throughout 2013 14, the companys addition to identifying individuals qualied to become board members, wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, has provided develops and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance an indemnity in respect of a similar group of people who would be covered principles applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating & by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides Governance Committee whose terms of reference include governance cover where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
and compliance issues see Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on page 86.
The Nominating & Governance Committees terms of reference are in line with the requirements Interest of management in certain transactions set out{in the standards.
However, the committee is chaired by the During and at the end of 2013 14, none of BTs directors was materially Chairman, Sir Michael Rake, who is not considered independent interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business under the NYSEs listing standards.
The Board and the Nominating and none is materially interested in any presently proposed material & {Governance Committee are made up of a majority of independent, transactions.
Power to authorise conicts The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the US All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE listing standards to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct or indirect require companies to comply with certain provisions relating to their interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests of the audit committee.
These include the independence of audit committee company.
The companys Articles of Association include provisions for members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding dealing with directors conicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 accounting or auditing matters.
We are fully compliant with these Act.
The company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with requirements.
situations where directors may have any such conicts, which require the{Board to US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 BT has securities registered with the SEC.
As a result, we must comply r consider each conict situation separately on its particular facts with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign r consider the conict situation in conjunction with the rest of its duties issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements under the 2006 Act introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable.
r keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by The Audit & Risk Committee includes Nick Rose who, in the opinion of directors and the scope of any approvals given and the Board, is an naudit committee financial expert and is independent r regularly review conict authorisation.
as dened for this purpose.
The Board considers that the committees members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business leadership experience, having held between them various prior roles in major business, financial management, and financial function supervision and that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of business{and financial experience on the committee.
ou can view the code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at www.
com ethics The code of ethics adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act{applies to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and senior finance managers.
Governance 113 We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, Disclosure controls and procedures evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group.
These The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after evaluating the processes have been in place throughout the year and have continued up eectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes are in the period covered by this Annual Report & Form 20-F, have concluded accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were eective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of BTs known to them by others within the group.
We have a detailed risk management process which identies the key risks facing the group, each line of The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that BTs business and our internal service unit, BT TSO.
disclosure controls and procedures are also eective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by the company in reports that Our current key risks are summarised in the it les under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act is 50 Strategic Report s Our risks on pages 50 to 55. recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.
The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and internal The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the control process comprise the following procedures certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
r Senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners and Internal control over financial reporting mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by the Group Risk Panel and BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Operating Committee before being reviewed and approved by the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Internal{control over financial reporting is designed to provide r The lines of business and BT TSO internal service unit carry out risk reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those and{the preparation of financial statements for external reporting operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed.
purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management conducted an r Senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations assessment of the eectiveness of internal control over financial reporting report quarterly with their opinion on the eectiveness of the based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in operation of internal controls in their areas of responsibility.
the{Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code r The groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
quality of risk management and control, report to management and Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at 31 March the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of specic areas identied 2014, BTs internal control over financial reporting was eective.
for improvement and promote eective risk management in the lines of business and our internal service unit.
There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting r The Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the that occurred during 2013 14 that have materially aected, or are eectiveness of the internal control procedures in the group during reasonably likely to have materially aected, the groups internal control the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit & Risk Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control Committee has carried out these actions for 2013 14. over financial reporting, is reported to the Audit & Risk Committee.
 LLP, which has audited the consolidated Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not financial statements for 2013 14, has also audited the eectiveness been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and are of the groups internal control over financial reporting under Auditing responsible for their own internal control assessment.
BTs significant accounting policies are set out on pages 129 to 134.
The{consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing The Auditorso report is on page 121 verication through management review and independent review by internal and external auditors.
The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the Internal control and risk management financial statements have been documented and are subject to annual The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control verication through the programme of testing conducted by our internal and risk management and for reviewing each year the eectiveness auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the internal controls of those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than over financial reporting and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives any system The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published financial results, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against related disclosures and accounting judgements.
The committees material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for reviewing BTs activities are set out on pages 83 to 85. systems of internal control includes procedures designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has remedy the failings.
also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental and responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the groups ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews annually BTs senior executives.
As part of this framework, the development and corporate responsibility policy.
The companys workplace practices, implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and specic environmental, social and ethical risks and opportunities and practices are reserved to identied senior executives.
details of underlying governance processes are dealt with in pages 24 to 29 in the Delivering our strategy section and Our performance as a responsible and sustainable business on pages 71 to 73.
Governance 114 Governance The disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Report are Capital management and funding policy The objective of our capital management and funding policy is to reduce r BT has two employee share ownership trusts which hold BT shares for net debt while investing in the business, supporting the pension fund the purpose of satisfying awards made under the various employee and paying progressive dividends.
The trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan may invite participants, on whose behalf it holds shares, to direct The Board reviews the groups capital structure regularly.
it how to vote in respect of those shares, and, if there is an oer for the Management{proposes actions which reect the groups investment plans shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of control and risk characteristics as well as the macro-economic conditions in of{BT, participants may direct it to accept the oer or agree to the which we operate.
In respect of shares held in the BT Group Employee Share Our funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from voting those shares.
We use a combination of capital If{there is an oer for the shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing, committed reject the oer but will have regard to the interests of the participants, borrowing facilities and investments.
These are planned so as to mature may consult them to obtain their views on the oer and may otherwise at dierent stages in order to meet short, medium and long-term take the action with respect to the oer it thinks fair.
r We are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of our treasury management policies are included in note 26 r No person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to control to{the consolidated financial statements.
r Proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received by Financial instruments the{registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies see also page 197. of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and r Any amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires shareholder foreign exchange are given in note 26 to the consolidated financial approval in accordance with legislation in force from time to time.
r The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of Association.
The directors are authorised to issue and allot Credit risk management policy shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject to shareholder We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market approval at the AGM.
conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments and r BT Group plc is not party to any significant agreements that take eect, derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury function alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover.
monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively r We do not have any agreements with directors providing for manages any exposures which arise.
This central team continually compensation for loss of oce or employment that occurs because reviews any credit exposures, whether arising from centrally-managed of{a takeover.
There is similarly no such provision in standard contracts financial instruments or from the groups trade-related receivables.
Management within the lines of business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading balances.
Political donations Our policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in O-balance sheet arrangements cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift or loan.
However, Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities the denition of political donations used in the 2006 Act is very much disclosed in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements, there are broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It may no o-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely cover activities such as making Members of Parliament and others in to have, a current or future material eect on our financial condition the political world aware of key industry issues and matters aecting changes in financial condition revenues or expenses results of the company.
These actions make an important contribution to their operations liquidity capital expenditure or capital resources.
Legal proceedings The authority we are requesting at the AGM is not designed to change We do not believe that there is any single current court action that would the above policy.
It will, however, ensure that the group continues have a material adverse eect on our financial position or operations.
to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act requiring companies to During 2013 14, the aggregate volume and value of legal actions to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU which we are party reduced.
political parties and or political organisations as dened in the 2006 Act.
During 2013 14, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Other statutory information Telecommunications plc, made payments totalling 3,000 2012 13 Certain provisions of the 2006 Act require us to make additional 739 to cover the cost of a brieng meeting with MPs, MSPs and disclosures.
A number of these disclosures can be found elsewhere in councillors of the Scottish National Party.
No loans were made to any this{Report as set out below political party by any company in the BT group.
r structure of BTs share capital page 180 including the rights and obligations attaching to the shares pages 197 to 199 r restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights pages 197 and 199 r significant direct or indirect shareholdings page 115 and r appointment and replacement of directors pages 109, 110 and 199.
