Financial statements 177 Report of the independent auditors to the members of BT Group plc the company Report on the parent company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Our opinion In our opinion the parent company financial statements, dened below Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received r give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys aairs as Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, at 31 March 2014 in our opinion r have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and r we have not received all the information and explanations we require r have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the for our audit or Companies Act 2006. r adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder from branches not visited by us or of this report.
r the parent company financial statements and the part of the Report What we have audited on Directors Remuneration to be audited are not in agreement with The parent company financial statements, which are prepared by the accounting records and returns.
BT Group plc, comprise We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
r the parent company balance sheet as at 31 March 2014 Directors remuneration r the parent company reconciliation of movement in equity Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, shareholders funds for the year then ended and in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified r the notes to the parent company financial statements, which include by law have not been made.
We have no exceptions to report arising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting opinion, information in the Annual Report is Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
r materially inconsistent with the information in the audited parent In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made company financial statements or a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant r apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course assumptions and considered future events.
of performing our audit or Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have r is otherwise misleading.
been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2014 We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the nAnnual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit and are identied as audited.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors What an audit of financial statements involves As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation on Auditing UK and Ireland nISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial they give a true and fair view.
statements sucient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the r whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for r the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of the directors and Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do r the overall presentation of the financial statements.
not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited consent in writing.
parent company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent Other matter with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2014. inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion r The information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Paul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor Directors for the financial year for which the parent company financial for and on behalf of  LLP statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors financial statements.
London r The part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited has 7 May 2014 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
