Governance 115 Shareholders and Annual General Meeting or other pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in normal Relations with shareholders circumstances this means that the chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, as well as other & Governance and Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are senior executives, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders available to answer relevant questions.
All the directors attended the and prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy and financial 2013 AGM.
The Chairman met with major shareholders during the year.
All non-executive directors have an invitation to attend investor We set out the 21 resolutions to be proposed at the 2014 AGM on meetings if they wish.
16{July, together with explanatory notes, in the separate Notice of meeting 2014 which we send to all shareholders who have requested During the course of the year, Patricia Hewitt, and subsequently shareholder documents by post.
We notify all shareholders of the Tony Ball, as chair of the Remuneration Committee, met with publication of these documents, which we send out in the most costbodies representing institutional investors to discuss, in particular, eective way.
We aim to give as much notice of our AGM as possible and remuneration{issues.
at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our Articles of Association.
We control contact with institutional investors and with financial In practice, we send these documents to shareholders more than 20 analysts, brokers and the media through written guidelines to ensure working days before the AGM.
the protection of commercial and inside information that has not already We will propose at the AGM resolutions to re-appoint been made generally available to the market.
 LLP as BTs auditors and to authorise the During the year, we surveyed 10,000 private shareholders selected at directors to agree their remuneration.
random to help us improve our engagement with them.
In response to the surveys findings, we have included more information on BTs We will broadcast the presentation made by the Chairman financial performance, strategy and future plans in our shareholder and the Chief Executive live on our website at www.
and it will be available after the AGM We provide the directors with regular reports and other written briengs on shareholders and analysts views and the Company Authority to purchase shares Secretary noties directors of changes in the holdings of the principal The authority given at last years AGM of the company, held on 17 July shareholders.
We have procedures to ensure the timely release of inside 2013, for BT to purchase in the market 788m of its shares, representing information and for the publication of financial results and regulatory 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 16 July 2014.
The Disclosure Committee, a committee of senior will be asked to give a similar authority at the 2014 AGM.
executives, which is chaired by the Company Secretary, also reviews all During 2013 14, 27m shares of 5p each were purchased under this significant announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
authority 0.34% of the share capital for a consideration of 98m, at an average price of 3.52 per share.
During 2013 14, 66m treasury shares Substantial shareholdings were transferred to meet BTs obligations under our employee share At 1 May 2014, BT had received notication, under the Disclosure & plans.
At 7 May 2014, a total of 231m shares were retained as treasury Transparency Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, in respect shares.
All the shares were purchased in an on-market programme of of the following holding of shares buying back BT shares from May 2013 to March 2014.
% of total In addition, the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust purchased voting 59m BT shares for a total consideration of 204m, all of which Shares rights continued to be held in the Trust at 7 May 2014.
Legal & General plc 236,206,686 Below 3% As permitted by the Companies Act, we have chosen to include in the Strategic Report the following information required by law to be In addition to the above, BlackRock Inc holds 458,851,515 shares included in the Report of the Directors representing 5.79% of total voting rights and Invesco Limited holds r the final dividend proposed by the Board page 59 518,314,737 shares representing 6.54% of total voting rights.
r an indication of likely future developments in the business of the No{changes in these holdings have been notied to BT in 2013 14. company see the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 74 r an indication of our R&D activities page 28 Annual General Meeting r information about our people page 24 and Resolutions r information about greenhouse gas emissions page 47.
We will ask our shareholders to vote on the Annual Report at the AGM and to vote separately on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
By order of the Board Following a change in legislation since the 2013 AGM, approval of the latter is now sought in two parts.
As part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the aairs of the Dan Fitz company, we give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions Group General Counsel & Company Secretary about BTs activities.
We also give shareholders the opportunity to vote 7 May 2014 on every substantially dierent issue by proposing a separate resolution for each issue.
Before the AGM, we will count the proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as votes withheld, and we will make the results available at the meeting.
As at the 2013 AGM, we will take votes on all matters at the 2014 AGM on a poll, except procedural issues.
We will count every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy at the meeting.
We will post the outcome of voting on the resolutions on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
While, because of ill health Governance The art of connecting leading global companies Voice of the customer Unilever operates around the world.
Few companies can oer the global, Its world-leading brands, including sustainable solutions to help us achieve Walls Ice Cream, Dove beauty products, our{ambitious vision.
We are delighted Lipton{and Knorr, are consumed by two to{be able to continue our partnership billion people every day.
The continued innovative use BT has worked with Unilever for more than a decade, providing of{technology is helping us{increase network services and solutions which are helping it grow more eciently and sustainably.
As well as delivering a fully integrated productivity, by making our workforce network providing voice, data, video and mobility services to the more connected.
companys 173,000 employees across nearly 100 countries, BT{is{also delivering collaboration services such as audio and Paulo fide Sa VP Infrastructure Services, Unilever video{conferencing.
These services are helping Unilever become an{increasingly agile business and introduce more sustainable ways{of{working.
We operate in more than Read about the challenges weve helped our customers 170 170{countries face and overcome at www.
com Voice from BT Worldwide, we are trusted by thousands of We serve 100% of the FTSE100 companies organisations, from governments to vast 100% multinationals.
They trust us to deliver critical network and IT services.
They trust us because weove already helped others to overcome the We serve 84% of the Fortune 84% 500{companies challenges they face.
The things that keep them{awake at night.
We work to help them become masters of the art of connecting.
Of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of the worlds most Luis Alvarez CEO, BT Global Services 86% valuable brands
