192 Additional information Information for shareholders Although BT believes that the expectations reected in these forwardCautionary statement regarding forward-looking looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these statements expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking and involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may dier materially from are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of the US Private those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Factors Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements relate that could cause dierences between actual results and those implied by to analyses and other information which are based on forecasts of the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to material future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.
These adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by BT statements include, without limitation, those concerning current and future regulatory actions, decisions, conditions or requirements in BTs future years outlook revenue and revenue trends EBITDA free cash operating areas, including competition from others selection by BT ow capital expenditure shareholder returns including progressive of the appropriate trading and marketing models for its products and dividends and share buyback net debt credit ratings our group-wide services technological innovations, including the cost of developing new restructuring programme, cost transformation and restructuring products, networks and solutions and the need to increase expenditures costs investment in and rollout of our bre network, and its reach, for improving the quality of service the anticipated benets and innovations, increased speeds and speed availability our broadbandadvantages of new technologies, products and services not being based service and strategy our investment in TV and enhancing our realised developments in the convergence of technologies prolonged BT Sport proposition the BT Pension Scheme recovery plan, operating adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase in overtime, charge, regular cash contributions and interest expense eective tax sta or other costs or impact on customer service the timing of entry rate growth opportunities in networked IT services, the pay-TV services and profitability of BT in certain markets significant changes in market market, broadband, and mobility and future voice enhancing our TV shares for BT or its principal products and services uctuations in foreign service growth of, and opportunities available in, the communications currency exchange rates or interest rates the underlying assumptions industry and BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities and estimates made in respect of major customer contracts proving expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth unreliable the aims of the group-wide restructuring programme not expectations regarding the convergence of technologies plans for being achieved and general financial market conditions aecting BTs the launch of new products and services network performance and performance and ability to raise finance.
Certain of these factors are quality the impact of regulatory initiatives, decisions and outcomes on discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Annual Report including, operations, including the regulation of the UK xed wholesale and retail without limitation, in Our risks on pages{50 to 55.
BT undertakes no businesses and the impact of the Undertakings to Ofcom under the obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result Enterprise Act BTs possible or assumed future results of operations and of new information, future events or otherwise.
or those of its associates and joint ventures investment plans adequacy of capital nancing plans and renancing requirements demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband by third-party service providers and those preceded by, followed by, or that include the words naims, nbelieves, nexpects, nanticipates, nintends, nwill, nshould or similar expressions.
Additional information 193 Stock exchange listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the London Stock Exchange is under the symbol nBT.
A. American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol nBT.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar aect the US Dollar equivalent of the Sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to aect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Background BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
Its registered oce address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of mmO2 from BT in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the businesses and assets of the BT group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public oerings.
b 8nder the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 68.8m shares were held in trust on behalf of 46,628 participants who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
267.7m shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 86,033 beneficial owners.
c 122.5m shares were represented by ADSs.
An analysis by size of holding is not available for these.
d 232.5m shares were held as treasury shares.
e 10.37% of the shares were in 920,375 individual holdings, of which 63,192 were joint holdings, and 89.63% of the shares were in 13,688 institutional holdings.
As far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the UK Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
The companys major shareholders do not have dierent voting rights to those of other shareholders.
At 2 May 2014, there were 8,151,227,029 ordinary shares outstanding, including 231,165,508 shares held as treasury shares.
At the same date, approximately 12.3m ADSs equivalent to 122.5m ordinary shares, or approximately 1.50% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 1,709 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2014, there were 3,715 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders who in total hold 0.03% of the ordinary shares of the company.
Additional information 195 Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013 was paid on 2 September 2013 to shareholders on the register on 9 August 2013, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014 was paid on 3 February 2014 to shareholders on the register on 27 December 2013.
The final proposed dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 8 September 2014 to shareholders on the register on 15 August 2014.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five financial years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid, see Taxation of dividends on page 200.
Dividends have been translated from Sterling into US Dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
The 8S{Dollar amount of the final dividend of 75 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in eect on 8 September 2014, the date of payment to holders of ordinary{shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in Sterling, exchange rate uctuations will aect the US Dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
Dividend mandate Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Shareholder Helpline see page{202, or go to the Shareholder information page of our website at www.
com investorcentre Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Own share purchases by BT from 18 July 2013 to 31 March 2014 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM on 17 July 2013. b Authority was given to purchase up to 778m shares on 11 July 2012 and 783m shares on 17 July 2013.
These authorities expire at the close of the following AGM.
A total of 86m own shares were purchased during 2013 14.
Of these, 27m shares were purchased for a total consideration of 98m 6m shares for a consideration of 21m under the authority given at the 2012 AGM and 21m shares for a consideration of 77m under the authority given at the 2013 AGM, and 59m shares were purchased by the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust for a consideration of 204m.
Please see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Additional information 196 Additional information Dividend investment plan Under the Dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends Price per share Date paid pence 2009 10 interim 8 February 2010 131.67 2009 10 final 6 September 2010 140.41 2010 11 interim 7 February 2011 185.89 2010 11 final 5 September 2011 164.64 2011 12 interim 6 February 2012 216.39 2011 12 final 3 September 2012 223.15 2012 13 interim 4 February 2013 265.01 2012 13 final 2 September 2013 339.38 2013 14 interim 3 February 2014 385.76 Global Invest Direct Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase & Co on 1 800 428 4237 toll free within the US, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has generated for its shareholders, reecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
BTs TSR for 2013 14 was positive 40.5%, compared with the FTSE100 TSR which was positive 6.7% and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index TSR which was positive 29.0%.
BTs TSR improvement in 2013 14 is mainly due to the increase in the share price during 2013 14, from a closing price of 278.0p on 29{March 2013.
Over the last five financial years BTs TSR was positive 481.3%, compared with the FTSE100 TSR of positive 101.5% and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index TSR of positive 82.9%.
BTs TSR performance vs the FTSE100 and FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index 31 March 2009 100 650 600 550 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 BT FTSE100 FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index Source: Datastream The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT, the FTSE100 and the FTSEurorst 300 Telco Index over the past five years.
Results announcements Expected announcements of results a Results for the 2014 15 financial year Date 1st quarter 31 July 2014 2nd quarter and half year October 2014 3rd quarter and nine months January 2015 4th quarter and full year May 2015 Annual Report 2015 published May 2015 a Dates may be subject to change.
Additional information 197 ShareGift Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their own, can be donated to ShareGift the share donation charity Registered Charity number 1052686.
ShareGift transfers these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of UK registered charities based on donor suggestion.
They can also accept larger donations of shares.
If you would like further details about ShareGift, please visit www.
Exchange rates BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in Sterling.
The following tables provide certain information concerning the exchange rates between Sterling and US Dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in Sterling as certied for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date the Articles of Association Articles shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the company The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of the shares.
a copy of which has been led with the Registrar of Companies.
A nholder of shares and a nshareholder is, in either case, the person b Variation of rights entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the Whenever the share capital of the company is split into dierent classes relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to be of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes can be evidenced by share certicates i. e. in certicated form or held in varied or withdrawn either electronic ie{uncerticated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class or BT adopted new Articles of Association with eect from October 2009, ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% largely to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by in{nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
Under that Act, the Memorandum of Association serves a more limited role as historical evidence of the At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons holding formation of the company.
Since October 2009, the provisions in or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal amount of relation to objects in BTs Memorandum are deemed to form part of the issued shares of the class in question but at any adjourned meeting, BTs Articles, and have been deleted from those Articles because of any person holding shares of the class or his proxy is a quorum.
shareholders passing a resolution to this eect at the AGM.
Under the The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and restrictions 2006 Act, BTs objects are unrestricted.
to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights previously given a Voting rights to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, every can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or existing shares can shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general meeting has take priority over them, or the new shares and the existing shares can one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy rank equally.
has one vote for each share which they hold.
c Changes in capital Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless The company may by ordinary resolution a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least five i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their proxies, nominal value and or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares or their proxies and who have, between them, at least 10% of the total of a larger nominal value.
votes of all shareholders who have the right to vote at the meeting.
The company may also No person is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by i buy back its own shares and being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to be interested in ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption those shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies reserve and any share premium account.
Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
Additional information 198 Additional information d Dividends g Untraced shareholders The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing an BT may sell any shares after advertising its intention and waiting for ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the amount three months if the shares have been in issue for at least ten years, recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid out of profits during that period at least three dividends have become payable available for distribution.
If the Board considers that the profits of the on them and have not been cashed and BT has not heard from the company justify such payments, they can pay interim dividends on any shareholder or any person entitled to the dividends by transmission.
class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they The net sale proceeds belong to BT, but it must pay those proceeds to decide.
Fixed dividends will be paid on any class of shares on the dates the former shareholder or the person entitled to them by transmission stated for the payments of those dividends.
if that shareholder, or that other person, asks for them.
The directors can oer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to h General meetings of shareholders receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead of Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the companys Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution authorising the must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least 21 clear days directors to make this oer.
written notice must be given for every annual general meeting.
For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days written notice must be Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was given.
The Board can specify in the notice of meeting a time by which a declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong person must be entered on the register of shareholders in order to have to the company.
the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The time specified must not be more than 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting.
e Distribution of assets on winding up If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of non-resident with the authority of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose registered address divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the is outside the UK and who wishes to receive notices of meetings of company.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind shareholders or documents from BT must give the company an address or dierent kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever within the UK to which they may be sent.
value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how the division is carried out between shareholders or dierent groups of j Directors shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, Directors remuneration transfer any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be paid shareholders which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding 65,000 a company can then be nalised and the company dissolved.
No past or year and increasing by the percentage increase of the retail prices index present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other as dened by section 833 2 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
for any 12-month period beginning 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may by ordinary resolution decide on a higher f Transfer of shares sum.
This resolution can increase the fee paid to all or any directors Certicated shares of the company may be transferred in writing either either permanently or for a particular period.
The directors may be by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another paid their expenses properly incurred in connection with the business form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be signed or made of the company.
eective by or on behalf of the person making the transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing to be the holder of the The Board can award extra fees to a director who holds an shares transferred until the name of the person to whom the shares are executive position acts as chairman or deputy chairman serves on a being transferred is entered in the register of members of the company.
Board committee at the request of the Board or performs any other services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in of a director.
certicated form The directors may grant pensions or other benets to, among others, i which is in favour of more than four joint holders or any director or former director or persons connected with them.
ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped to However, BT can only provide these benets to any director or former show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the director who has not been an employee or held any other oce or companys registered oce or any other place the Board decide.
executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, The transfer must have with it the share certicate for the shares to or to relations or dependants of, or people connected to, those be transferred any other evidence which the Board ask for to prove directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve this by passing that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this an ordinary resolution.
and if the transfer form is executed by another person on behalf of the person making the transfer, evidence of the authority of that Directors votes person to do so.
A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using a relevant system as dened in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a resolution the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to register a transfer of an about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply uncerticated share in the circumstances stated in the Regulations.
to interests of a person connected with the director.
If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board must If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred giving quorum on a resolution concerning a contract reasons for its decision.
This must be done as soon as possible and i in which the director has an interest of which the director is not no later than two months after the company receives the transfer or aware or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
rise to a conict of interest Additional information 199 ii in which the director has an interest only because the director is a to issue debentures and other securities, and give security either holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by reason outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of of any other interest in or through BT the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings iii which involves the giving of any security, guarantee or indemnity of the company and exercise all the companys voting and other rights to the director or any other person for money lent or obligations or powers of control exercisable by the company in relation to its incurred by the director or by any other person at the request subsidiary undertakings so as to ensure that the aggregate amount of all of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intraundertakings or a debt or other obligation which is owed by BT group among other things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other person if the borrowing powers may only be varied by amending the Articles.
director has taken responsibility for all or any part of that debt or k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control obligation by giving a guarantee, security or indemnity BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under the iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is oering any Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder shares, debentures or other securities for subscription or purchase is currently liable to make additional contributions of capital in respect of to which the director is or may be entitled to participate as a holder BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no provisions in the Articles of BT securities or where the director will be involved in or of corporate legislation in England and Wales that would delay, the underwriting or sub-underwriting defer or prevent a change of control.
v relating to any other company in which the director has an interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position in that company l Disclosure of interests in shares or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or otherwise involved in that Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK companythese rights do not apply if the director owns 1% or Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation on a more of that company or of the voting rights in that company person who acquires or ceases to have a notiable interest in the relevant vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or share capital of a public company like BT to notify the company of that former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings which fact.
These Rules also deal with the only gives the directors the same benets that are generally given disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of companies to the employees or former employees to whom the arrangement in which they are directors and certain associated companies.
Under relates section 793 of the 2006 Act referred to in a above, BT may ascertain vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability for the persons who are or have within the last three years been interested the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who include in its shares and the nature of those interests.
The UK City Code on directors Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors regard to dealings in the securities of an oeror or oeree company on ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or directors all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings or actions the course of an oer period.
against the director or the directors in connection with an application to the court for relief or on defending the director or Material contracts the directors in any regulatory investigations or which enables any Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no director or directors to avoid incurring expenditure as described in contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this paragraph and this document by BT or another member of the group which are, or may x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors generally, be, material to the group or contain a provision under which a member has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
of the group has an obligation or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other member of the group.
Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can by passing an ordinary resolution ratify any particular contract carried out in breach Taxation US Holders of those provisions.
This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and UK tax Directors appointment and retirement consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares or Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who manage ADSs by US Holders as dened below who hold their ordinary shares the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary this minimum or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all aspects of US federal and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and income taxation and does not address aspects that may be relevant the shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who to persons who are subject to special provisions of US federal income is willing to be elected as a director, either to ll a vacancy or as an tax law, including US expatriates insurance companies tax-exempt additional director.
organisations banks regulated investment companies financial institutions securities broker-dealers traders in securities who elect a At every annual general meeting, any director who was elected or last mark-to-market method of accounting persons subject to alternative re-elected a director at or before the annual general meeting held in the minimum tax investors that directly, indirectly or by attribution own third year before the current year, must retire by rotation.
Any director 10% or more of the outstanding share capital or voting power of BT appointed by the directors automatically retires at the next following persons holding their ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, annual general meeting.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
hedging transaction or conversion transaction persons who acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the otherwise as compensation or persons whose functional currency is shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, not the US Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US even though his or her time in oce has not ended.
They can elect a federal income tax consequences dierent from those set forth below.
person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of rotation when the director replaced would have been due to retire.
ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, is Directors borrowing powers a citi]en or individual resident of the United States a corporation or To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board can other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage created or organised in or under the laws of the United States or any or charge its business, property and assets present and future and political subdivision thereof an estate the income of which is subject Additional information 200 Additional information to US federal income taxation regardless of its sources, or a trust if Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced rates a US court can exercise primary supervision over the administration of US federal income tax currently at a maximum of 20% in respect of of the trust and one or more US persons are authorised to control all qualied dividend income received in taxable years beginning 1{January substantial decisions of the trust.
If a partnership holds ordinary shares 2013.
For this purpose, qualied dividend income generally includes or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon dividends paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.
A partner US Holders meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its corporation satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the own tax advisor regarding the specic tax consequences of owning and shares or ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are disposing of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
readily tradable on an established securities market in the US, or ii the non-US corporation is eligible for the benets of a comprehensive In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for the practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law and US exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends paid Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal Revenue with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute qualied Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury regulations, dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each individual rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all as currently in US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax eect and available, ii the United KingdomUnited States Convention advisor regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the United KingdomUnited in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations States Tax Convention that entered into force on 31 March 2003 and of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualied dividend the protocol thereto the Convention, all as in eect on the date of income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
this Annual Report, all of which are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with retroactive eect.
Taxation of capital gains US Holders should consult their own tax advisors as to the applicability Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily of the Convention and the consequences under UK, US federal, state and resident for UK tax purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary local, and other laws, of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares shares or ADSs carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK or ADSs.
through a branch, agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or Taxation of dividends vocation, the holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax at on a disposal of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident in or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident or in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on ordinarily resident for tax purposes in the UK on or after 17 March 1998 a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency, or who falls to be regarded as resident outside the UK for the purposes or, in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in 2005 and continues to not be resident or ordinarily resident in the UK respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
or continues to be Treaty non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as that period may also be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible gains, subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value of the resident or ordinarily resident in the UK or is Treaty non-resident at the distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in eect on the date time of disposal.
the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
A US Holder For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will recognise who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other disposition of ordinary should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A US Holder who does shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the dierence between the US not convert Sterling into US Dollars on the date of receipt generally will Dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US have a tax basis in Sterling equal to their US Dollar value on such date.
Holders adjusted tax basis determined in US Dollars in the ordinary Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, recognised by the US Holder on a shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be US source gain or loss, subsequent conversion or other disposition of Sterling generally will be and will be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares US source ordinary income or loss.
In addition, in a situation where US have been held for more than one year at the time of disposition.
Longholders receive distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits, term capital gains recognised by an individual US Holder generally are foreign currency gain or loss will generally be recognised as the same subject to US federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility source as the associated income included under Subpart F rules for US of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share will generally be its US Dollar be available to corporate shareholders.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US Dollar value of the purchase price on For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, dividends the date of purchase, or the settlement date for the purchase, in the case paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income from of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market, as dened sources outside the US and generally will constitute npassive income.
in the applicable Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are very US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit with respect by an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year to to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim a year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The amount deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US federal realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares for an amount in income tax on a Dollar for Dollar basis like a tax credit.
The deduction, foreign currency will be the US Dollar value of this amount on the date of however, is not subject to the limitations applicable to foreign credits.
On the settlement date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain or loss taxable as ordinary income or There will be no right to any UK tax credit or to any payment from HMRC loss equal to the dierence if any between the US Dollar value of the in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
Additional information 201 amount received based on the exchange rates in eect on the date of Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to sale or other disposition and the settlement date.
However, in the case stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a consideration of ordinary shares traded on an established securities market that are in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, sold by a cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
Paperless elects, the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in eect transfers of ordinary shares within CREST are generally liable to SDRT at on the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be the rate of 0.5% of the value of the consideration.
CREST is obliged to recognised at that time.
collect SDRT from the purchaser of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
Passive foreign investment company status The above statements are intended as a general guide to the current A non-US corporation will be classied as a passive foreign investment position.
Certain categories of person including recognised market company for US federal income tax purposes a PFIC for any taxable year makers, brokers and dealers may not be liable to stamp duty or SDRT or if at least 75% of its gross income consists of passive income or at least may, although not liable for the tax, be required to notify and account 50% of the average value of its assets consist of assets that produce, or for it under the Stamp Duty Reserve Tax Regulations 1986. are held for the production of, passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC for the tax year ended 31 March 2014.
If BT UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary were to become a PFIC for any tax year, US Holders would suer adverse shares and or ADSs tax consequences.
These consequences may include having gains The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not be realised on the disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary taken without advice specic to the individuals circumstances.
income rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest A{lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or other by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, dividends paid UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national by BT would not be nqualied dividend income which may be eligible for as dened in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US Holders should consult inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax their own tax advisors regarding the potential application of the PFIC unless the tax is not paid otherwise than as a result of a specic rules to BT.
exemption, deduction, exclusion, credit or allowance.
US information reporting and backup withholding Further note on certain activities Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange During 2013 14, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a current certain countries identied by the US Department of State as State rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain exempt Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These recipients such as corporations are not subject to these information activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications reporting requirements.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, to a US Holder who provides a correct taxpayer identication number or other CPs, news organisations, multinational corporations and other certicate of foreign status and makes any other required certication customers that require global communications connectivity, are or who is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal insignicant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer Under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Identication Number and Certication.
Holders that are not US persons Act of 2012, which added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act for US federal income tax purposes generally will not be subject to US of 1934, we are required to disclose whether BT or any of its aliates information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such holders knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings may be required to provide certication of non-US status in connection relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities.
Disclosure with payments received in the US or through certain US-related is required even when the activities were conducted outside the US by financial{intermediaries.
non-US entities and even when they were conducted in compliance with applicable law.
Our disclosures for 2013 14, which remain unchanged Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as from 2012 13, are below.
backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess HM Treasury approval was granted on 31{October 2012 for amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely ling authorisation to receive 75,000 from Telecommunication the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing any Infrastructure Company TIC, in Iran.
The payment was for receiving required information.
incoming UK telecommunications tari from Iran BT is paid on a per minute basis for terminating calls.
UK stamp duty Between July 2007 and October 2012 a BT subsidiary, Communications A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will generally Global Network Services CGNS, acted as billing agent for a consortium be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at of telecommunications companies, of which CGNS was a member, 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration provided rounded in respect of a subsea cable contract.
As billing agent, CGNS invoiced up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
SDRT is generally the telecommunications companies worldwide, collecting funds and liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also the purchaser who pays dispersing these to the consortium members and, during that time, UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary share to, or to a nominee for, received indirect payments on behalf of TIC.
a{person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent of, a person whose business is or includes BT entered into a Framework Agreement with Rafsanjan Industrial issuing depositary receipts gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty Complex RIC for business consultancy services in May 2010 and or SDRT of either the amount of the consideration provided or the provided an initial consultancy engagement under phase 1 of the value of the share issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the agreement.
In February 2011, phase 2 was agreed with RIC however BT nearest 5.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an stopped work in December 2011 due to the geopolitical situation.
RIC ADS assuming it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer made an advance payment to BT of 384,120 to carry out the phase 2 documents are executed and always retained outside the UK.
We continue to explore whether the amount can be refunded.
Additional information 202 Additional information Limitations aecting security holders Private shareholders There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, legislation which have a material eect on the import or export of they should contact our Registrars, Equiniti, at the address below.
capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for use by Equiniti maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT Group the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US Holders.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline service on Freefone 0808 100 4141.
There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of nonresidents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Shareholder helpline Tel Freefone 0808 100 4141 Documents on display Fax 01903 833371 All reports and other information that BT les with the US Securities Textphone Freefone 0800 169 6907 and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public From outside the UK reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC Tel 44 121 415 7178 20549, US.
co. uk These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov The Registrar ADR Depositary Equiniti JPMorgan Chase & Co Aspect House PO Box 64504 Publications Spencer Road St Paul, MN 55164-0854, US BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, Lancing Tel 1 800 990 1135 General and social and environmental performance.
West Sussex or 1 651 453 2128 BN99 6DA From outside the US Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance www.
com or 1 800 428 4237 with the 8ndertakings are available to shareholders on reTuest and can be accessed at www.
More detailed disclosures on BTs Global Invest Direct implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures email are available online through our independently veried sustainability report at jpmorgan.
com General enquiries Document Publication date BT Group plc Notice of meeting May BT Centre Annual Report & Form 20-F May 81 Newgate Street Better Future our annual London EC1A 7AJ sustainability report May United Kingdom Tel 020 7356 5000 EAB Annual Report May From outside the UK Expected quarterly results releases July, October, January and May Tel 44 1793 596 931 Current Cost Financial Statements July The Way We Work, a statement of Institutional investors, financial and industry analysts business practice Institutional investors and financial analysts may contact BT Investor For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline on Relations on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or contact our Registrars in the UK, at the Tel 020 7356 4909 address opposite.
com Electronic communication Industry analysts and consultants may contact BT Analyst Relations on Shareholders can choose to receive their shareholder documents Tel 020 7356 4909 electronically rather than by post.
com Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by calling A full list of BT contacts and an electronic feedback facility are available at the Shareholder Helpline.
You can nd the details opposite.
com talk Shareholder communication BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their requirements.
All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors, financial analysts, industry analysts and journalists.
An online version of this document is available at www.
