Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and financial statements, and the Directors Remuneration the financial position of the Company and enable them to Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and have prepared the financial statements in accordance with other irregularities.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also Under company law the Directors must not approve the responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors financial statements unless they are satisfied that, taken as a Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Statement of whole, the annual report and accounts provide the information Corporate Governance that comply with that law and those necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys regulations.
performance, business model and strategy and that they give a The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of website, which is maintained by the Companys Manager.
The the total return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMF to provide these confirmations, and in preparing these financial is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of statements, the Directors must be satisfied that, taken as a JPMF.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not involve whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, balanced and consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this understandable and provide the information necessary for website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no shareholders to assess the performance, business model and responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the strategy of the Company: and the Directors are required to: financial statements since they were initially presented on select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the website.
The financial statements are prepared in consistently: accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Directors Report, each confirm that, to the best of their state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have knowledge the financial statements, which have been prepared been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and explained in the financial statements: and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis and applicable law, give a fair, balanced and understandable unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and return or continue in business loss of the Company.
and the Directors confirm they have done so.
The Board confirms it is satisfied that the annual report and accounts For and on behalf of the Board taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and Sarah Bates provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess Chairman the performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
31st March 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
