EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 35 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report time the financial position of the Company and to enable and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors and other irregularities.
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Under Company law the Directors must not approve the Report and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a that law and those regulations.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their these financial statements, the Directors are required to: knowledge the financial statements, which have been prepared select suitable accounting policies and then apply them in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted consistently: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and liabilities, financial position and return or loss of the Company.
prudent: The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual report state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed understandable and provide the information necessary for and explained in the financial statements: and shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
For and on behalf of the Board and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
Alan Saunders, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Chairman records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 1st October 2014 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
