Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Statement of Directors responsibilities In respect of the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary financial statements The Directors of Just Retirement Group plc have chosen to prepare supplementary financial statements in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles published by the CFO Forum in May 2004 and the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures published by the CFO Forum in October 2005 together, EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those Principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary financial statements in accordance with the methodology contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary financial statements, the Directors have: Prepared the supplementary financial statements in accordance with the EEV Principles: Identified and described the business covered by the EEV Principles: Applied the EEV Principles consistently to the covered business: Determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and Made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 129 KPMG Audit Plc report to Just Retirement Group plc On the EEV supplementary financial statements Just Retirement Group plc has prepared supplementary financial statements, and related notes, for the financial year ending 30 June 2014 in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles published by the CFO Forum in May 2004 and the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures published by the CFO Forum in October 2005 together, EEV Principles.
These EEV supplementary financial statements are shown on pages 118 to 128.
KPMG Audit Plc has been engaged by Just Retirement Group plc to review the EEV supplementary financial statements.
This report is addressed to Just Retirement Group plc and sets out the scope of our work and our conclusions.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility, duty of care or liability to anyone other than Just Retirement Group plc for or in connection with our review work, for the opinions we have formed, or for any statement set forth in this report.
Scope of work We have reviewed the methodology and assumptions used by Just Retirement Group plc to calculate the EEV results, in the light of the requirements of the EEV Principles.
We have also carried out a number of analytical checks on the EEV results in order to satisfy ourselves that the results have been compiled in a manner consistent with the methodology and assumptions disclosed in the EEV supplementary financial statements on pages 121 to 125.
However, the scope of our work did not include detailed checking of the models and processes involved in the preparation of the EEV results.
We have also reviewed the overall adequacy of the presentation of the EEV supplementary financial statements, in the light of the requirements of the EEV Principles.
In carrying out our review we have relied on data and information provided by Just Retirement Group plc without independent verification.
Opinion In our opinion, and on the basis of the scope of work above, we have concluded that the EEV supplementary financial statements for the financial year ending 30 June 2014 have been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV Principles, using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 121 to 125.
Ben Priestley Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 17 September 2014 130 Just Retirement Group plc
