Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Information for shareholders Financial calendar 2014 15 Annual General Meeting 25 November 2014 Record date for proposed final dividend 14 November 2014 Payment of final dividend, subject to shareholder approval 8 December 2014 Expected date of announcement of interim results for the six months ending 31 December 2014 February 2015 Announcement of results September 2015 Annual General Meeting November 2015 Investor relations enquiries For all investor relations enquiries about the Company, please contact our Investor Relations department at the Registered Office address shown on the inside back cover.
Shareholders can keep up-to-date with all the latest Just Retirement Group plc news and events by registering with our Alert Service http: justretirementgroup.
Just select the information of interest to you, such as Company results, trading updates, shareholder meetings or regulatory updates, and you will then be notified by e-mail when this information is available to view on our website.
Individual shareholders with queries regarding their shareholding in Just Retirement Group plc should contact our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Further copies of our Annual Report and Accounts can be obtained by contacting the Group Company Secretarys office at the Registered Office address on the inside back cover.
Current and historical share price information is available on our website http: justretirementgroup.
com investors  share-monitor and also onmany other websites.
Warning about unsolicited approaches to shareholders and boiler room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and persuasive.
Just Retirement Group plc shareholders are advised to be extremely wary of such approaches and advised to only dealwith firms authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
uk consumers or by calling 0845 606 1234.
Registrar The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
All enquiries regarding shareholder administration including dividends, lost share certificates or changes of address should be communicated in writing, quoting Just Retirement Group plcs Company reference number 3947 to the address on the inside back cover or by calling 0871 384 2030 for callers from the UK calls to this number are charged at 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Mondays to Fridays, excluding UK Bank Holidays or 44 0 121 415 7047 for callers from outside the UK.
Shareholders can also view and manage their shareholdings online by registering at www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 131 Information for shareholders continued Dividend mandates We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish touse this cost-effective and simple facility, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Cautionary statement This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of Just Retirement Group plc the Company, as a body, and for no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
132 Just Retirement Group plc Directors and advisers Directors Tom Cross Brown Independent Non-executive Chairman Keith Nicholson Senior Independent Director Les Owen Independent Non-executive Director Kate Avery Independent Non-executive Director Michael Deakin Independent Non-executive Director James Fraser Non-executive Director Rodney Cook Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomas Group Finance Director Shayne Deighton Group Chief Actuary Group Company Secretary Martin Smith Registered and head office Vale House Roebuck Close Bancroft Road Reigate Surrey RH2 7RU Website: www.
com Tel: 44 0 1737 233 296 Registered in England and Wales number 08568957 Corporate bankers Deutsche Bank AG London Branch Winchester House 1 Great Winchester Street London EC2N 2DB Nomura International plc 1 Angel Lane London EC4R 3AB Auditor KPMG Audit Plc 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Corporate lawyers Addleshaw Goddard LLP Milton Gate 60 Chiswell Street London EC1Y 4AG Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Just Retirement Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Just Retirement Group plc Vale House Roebuck Close Bancroft Road Reigate Surrey RH2 7RU
