Notes to the Parent Company balancesheet 1 Accounting policies General information Just Retirement Group plc the Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 13 June 2013 as a public company limited by shares.
On incorporation, the share capital of the Company was 2 divided into 20 ordinary shares of 0.10 each.
During the period to 30 June 2014, the Company successfully completed the issue of new ordinary shares to raise approximately 300m through a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 15 November 2013.
The audited financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments.
The following accounting policies have been consistentlyapplied: 1.1 Basis of preparation The Company has presented individual financial statements prepared on a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice basis as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, and has adopted the exemption of omitting the profit and loss account conferred by Section 408 of that Act.
The retained loss arising in the period amounts to 2.2m 2013: nil.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18, Accounting Policies.
In accordance with FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements, the Company is exempt from the requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that this is provided in its consolidated financial statements.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, from the requirements of this standard on the basis that the Companys results are included in its consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is equivalent to FRS 29.
1.2 Investment income, expenses and charges Investment income is accrued up to the balance sheet date.
Investment expenses are recognised on an accrualsbasis.
1.3 Taxation Taxation is based on profits for the period as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for priorperiods.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheetdate.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits to utilise carried forward tax losses against which the reversal of underlying timing differences can bededucted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected toreverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
1.4 Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for diminution invalue.
1.5 Financial investments Financial investments are designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
1.6 Share-based payments The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn scheme for all employees.
The share-based payment plans operated by the Group are all equity-settled plans.
Under FRS 20, Share-based payment, where the Company, as the Parent Company, has the obligation to settle the options or awards of its equity instruments to employees of its subsidiary undertakings, and such share-based payments are accounted for as equity-settled in the Group financial statements, the Company records an increase in the investment in subsidiary undertakings for the value of the share options and awards granted with a corresponding credit entry recognised directly in equity.
The value of the share options and awards granted is based upon the fair value of the options and awards at the grant date, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
116 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials 2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings m Shares in Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited At 14 June 2013 Additions 212.4 At 30 June 2014 212.4 Additions relate to shares issued by Just Retirement Group HoldingsLimited.
The Company holds investments in the ordinary shares unless otherwise stated of the following subsidiary undertakings: Percentage of nominal share capital and voting Principal activity Country of incorporation rights held Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited Holding Company England & Wales 100% 1 Just Retirement Holdings Limited Holding Company England & Wales 100% 2 Just Retirement Limited Life assurance England & Wales 100% 2 Just Retirement Solutions Limited Distribution England & Wales 100% 2 Just Retirement Management Services Limited Management services England & Wales 100% 2 4,5 TOMAS Acquisitions Limited Holding company England & Wales 100% 3 The Open Market Annuity Service Limited Software solutions Northern Ireland 100% 3 TOMAS Online Development Limited Software development Northern Ireland 100% 1 Subsidiary of Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited.
2 Subsidiaries of Just Retirement Holdings Limited.
3 Subsidiaries of TOMAS Acquisitions Limited.
4 Class A ordinary shares and class B ordinary shares.
5 Remaining ownership of TOMAS Acquisitions Limited 28.3% was acquired during the year.
3 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Details of the Companys ordinary share capital and share premium account are shown in note 21 of the notes to the Groups financial statements.
Share Shares held Called up premium by Employee Profit and share capital account Benefit Trust loss account Total m m m m m At 14 June 2013 Shares issued 50.1 279.1 0.1 329.1 Capital reduction 279.1 279.1 Share-based payments 0.7 0.7 Loss for the period 2.2 2.2 At 30 June 2014 50.1 0.1 277.6 327.6 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 117
