Shareholder Information Shareholder Information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates 2014 of 8.80p per ordinary share was paid on 24 January or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys 2014.
A final dividend of 23.20p per share has been Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: proposed and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on11 July 2014, will be paid according to the Equiniti followingtimetable: Aspect House Spencer Road Final dividend record date: 4 July 2014 Lancing Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms: 10 July 2014 West Sussex Final dividend payment date: 31 July 2014 BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five Tel: 0871 384 2839.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus business days after the proposed dividend payment date networkextras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, for ordinary shareholders.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the bankaccount, with the tax voucher being sent to the UKor see help.
co. uk for additional information.
This is the easiest way for shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids American Depositary Receipts therisk of lost or out of date cheques.
A dividend mandate Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary form is available from Equiniti or at shareview.
Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents Dividends payable in foreign currencies twoBurberry ordinary shares.
Equiniti is able to pay dividends to shareholder bank accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use Overseas Payment Service.
An administrative fee will be thefollowing contact details: deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details can be obtained from Equiniti or online at shareview.
Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas c o American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Dividend Reinvestment Plan Peck Slip Station The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables PO Box 2050 shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry New York, NY 10272-2050 shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
If shareholders would like their final 2014 and future Tel: toll free within the US: 1 866 249 2593 dividends to qualify for the DRIP, completed application Tel: International: 1 718 921 8137 forms must be returned to Equiniti by 10 July 2014.
com Duplicate accounts Annual General Meeting Shareholders who have more than one account due Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday, toinconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate 11 July 2014 at 11.00am at the offices of Slaughter and May: mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the amalgamation of their share accounts.
One Bunhill Row London Electronic communication EC1Y 8YY Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all shareholder documentation in electronic form via the The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders who to be conducted at the meeting, is available on the decide to register for this option will receive an email each Companys website at burberryplc.
time a shareholder document is published on the internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation in The voting results for the 2014 Annual General Meeting electronic form should register online at shareview.
willbe accessible on the Companys website at burberryplc.
com shortly after the meeting.
169 Shareholder Information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and ShareGift services online at shareview.
A textphone facility Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value forthose with hearing difficulties is available by calling ofwhich makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish 0871384 2255.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus network toconsider donating their shares to charity through extras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to ShareGift, a donation scheme operated by The Orr Friday.
Please call 44 121 415 7028 if calling from Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can outsidethe UK.
Further information is available atsharegift.
Financial calendar First quarter trading update 10 July 2014 Share price information Annual General Meeting 11 July 2014 The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available First half trading update October 2014 onthe Companys website at burberryplc.
Interim results announcement November 2014 Third quarter trading update January 2015 Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Second half trading update April 2015 Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Preliminary results announcement May 2015 advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Registered office brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them Burberry Group plc what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Horseferry House USA or UK investments.
These operations are commonly Horseferry Road known as boiler rooms.
London SW1P 2AW If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the correct name of the person and organisation and check Registered in England and Wales that they are properly authorised by the FCA before Registered number 03458224 gettinginvolved by visiting www.
com If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be Share dealing eligibleto receive payment under the Financial Services Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers atelephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised conditions and details of the commission charges are firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 More detailed information can be found on the FCA website between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for at www.
uk scams internet dealing visit shareview.
Shareholders will need their reference number which can be found on Website their share certificate.
This Annual Report and other information about Burberry, including share price information and details of results announcements, are available at burberryplc.
170 Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs orcurrent expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Burberry Group plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
171 The paper in this report is derived from FSC sustainable sources.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their and technology.
Pureprint is a Carbon Neutral Company.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
