Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective and have been adopted for the first time by the Group from 1 April 2013.
Those which have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group are: IFRS 13 Fair value measurement This standard establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs.
It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
The application of IFRS 13 has not had a material impact on the fair value measurement of the Groups assets and liabilities.
In line with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly refer to note 2 and note 19.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures As a result of the amendments to IFRS 7, the Group has expanded its disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities refer to note 17.
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation The amendment required entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether or not they will be recycled through profit or loss at a later date, when specific conditions are met.
The amendments were effective from 1 July 2012, and have been adopted by the Group from 1 April 2013.
The impact on the Group has been limited to presentation.
The Group has elected to early adopt the following new standards and amendments as of 1 April 2013, which have been issued, endorsed by the EU and are effective from 1 January 2014.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements This standard establishes the principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements and replaces similar principles set out in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 introduces a new control model that is applicable to all investees, where control is defined as whether the investor has power over an investee: exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
The adoption of this new standard has had no impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group and there has been no impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by Ventures, and removes the option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation.
Currently the Group does not hold any interests in joint arrangements, and therefore the adoption of this new standard has had no impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities This standard requires disclosure of information about the nature of, and risks associated with, the Groups interests in other entities, as well as the impact of these interests on the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly refer to note 28.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 on the disclosures required under IAS 36.
The amendments require disclosure of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units CGUs for which an impairment loss or reversal has been recognised during the period.
The Group has decided to early adopt the amendment as of 1 April 2013, with additional disclosure included in note 13.
120 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group As at 31 March 2014, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which to the Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, and introduces new The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete standard does not currently have an effective Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 date and it has not currently been endorsed by the EU.
Any potential impact of this new standard will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
These amendments clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
The amendments have been endorsed by the EU and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, and are not considered to have a material impact on the presentation of the Groups financial assets or liabilities.
Those which have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group are: Basis of consolidation IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented This standard establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such as a single economic entity.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs.
It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements consistent accounting policies across the Group.
in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity In line with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and has not when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to effect provided any comparative information for new disclosures.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly refer to note 2 and note 19. those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss As a result of the amendments to IFRS 7, the Group has expanded its disclosures about the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period during refer to note 17. which the Group had control.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation companies are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling The amendment required entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether or not they will be recycled interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between through profit or loss at a later date, when specific conditions are met.
any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Key sources of estimation and judgement Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure This standard establishes the principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements and replaces similar principles set of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgement out in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 introduces a new control at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be model that is applicable to all investees, where control is defined as whether the investor has power over an investee: exposure or rights to variable updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
returns from its involvement with the investee: and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including IFRS 11 Joint arrangements expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by Ventures, and removes and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities the option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation.
Currently the Group does not hold any interests in joint are discussed below: arrangements, and therefore the adoption of this new standard has had no impact on the financial position or financial performance of the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities Put option liability over non-controlling interest This standard requires disclosure of information about the nature of, and risks associated with, the Groups interests in other entities, as well as The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on the impact of these interests on the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been updated to reflect these disclosures accordingly refer to note 28. the contractual agreement and requires the application of key assumptions around both the future performance of the Groups Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets business in China: the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate in China, taking into These amendments remove the unintended consequences of IFRS 13 on the disclosures required under IAS 36.
The amendments require disclosure account the risk free rate in China.
Refer to notes 19 and 25 for further details of the put option liability.
of the recoverable amount for assets or cash generating units CGUs for which an impairment loss or reversal has been recognised during the period.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Refer to note 13 for further details of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of goodwill The Group is required to test at least annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Refer to note 12 for further details of goodwill balances.
121 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued Impairment of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset The fragrance and beauty intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of the intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product division.
Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset.
Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note 16 for further details of the carrying value of inventory.
Income and deferred taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
Refer to notes 9 and 14 for further details of income and deferred tax balances.
Impairment of trade receivables The Group is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of trade receivables.
When assessing impairment of trade receivables, management considers factors including the ageing profile of debtors as well as any specific known problems or risks.
Given global economic conditions and the range of countries the Group trades in, unanticipated future events may occur that could impact the appropriateness of the assessment made as to the recoverability of the Groups trade receivables.
Refer to notes 15 and 25 for further details on the net carrying value and credit quality of trade receivables.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the Group are: a Revenue Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of production volumes.
In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the Group.
Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded as operating income.
b Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
122 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued c Business combinations Impairment of the fragrance and beauty intangible asset The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an The fragrance and beauty intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of the at the date of exchange.
Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement.
All transaction intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as a costs are expensed to the Income Statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product non-controlling interest.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are division.
initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination.
Inventory provisioning The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Refer to note 16 for further d Share schemes details of the carrying value of inventory.
The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share based Income and deferred taxes incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated Impairment of trade receivables for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
The Group is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of trade receivables.
When assessing impairment of trade receivables, management considers factors including the ageing profile of debtors as well as any specific known problems The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding or risks.
Given global economic conditions and the range of countries the Group trades in, unanticipated future events may increase in equity.
occur that could impact the appropriateness of the assessment made as to the recoverability of the Groups trade receivables.
When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, 2.
Accounting policies net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium accounts.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are: e Leases a Revenue The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Determining whether an arrangement is or contains Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
to ownership of an asset are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates leases.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued of transactions with customers.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return for on that basis.
Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments accrued income on the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products Sheet in accruals and deferred income and recognised over the term of the lease.
on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the Group.
Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded Finance leases where the Group is a lessee are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of the as operating income.
leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Interest is charged to the Income Statement and credited to the lease liability using the effective interest rate method.
Lease liabilities are held in Trade and other payables on the b Segment reporting Balance Sheet.
The capitalised leased assets are held in property, plant and equipment on the Balance Sheet, and are Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the leased asset.
f Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
123 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
h Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful economic life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement and the nature of the asset.
Computer software The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable external development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are up to five years.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 8 years Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 5 years Office equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
124 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs j Impairment of non-financial assets Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs h Intangible fixed assets to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there Goodwill are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value has been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
of identifiable net assets acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition k Investment properties at that date.
Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful economic life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale agreement and the nature of the asset.
transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Computer software less cost to sell.
The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable external development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for m Inventories its intended use.
Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, which are up to five years.
design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For inventories relating to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method.
i Property, plant and equipment For all other product divisions, the cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out FIFO method, taking account of Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than based on historical revalued amounts, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Assets net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase n Taxation price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Depreciation The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 8 years at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 2 5 years Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet Office equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment represent the difference between the net proceeds Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the and net book value at the date of sale.
reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
125 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks reflected in future cash flow estimates.
Property obligations A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of the lease excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has been approved and communicated.
Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
q Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method except for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting, and are held at fair value.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount due to the short maturity of these instruments.
126 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued q Financial instruments continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Fair value authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances measurement on a net basis.
2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A o Provisions Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Put option over non-controlling interest 19 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 3 obligation can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks Onerous lease 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A reflected in future cash flow estimates.
1 Hedge accounting is applied to cash flow hedges to the extent it is achievable.
2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
Property obligations A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value hierarchy the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of the lease excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has or indirectly.
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
p Share capital Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual events Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown or transactions.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including Level 3 fair in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
Significant valuation issues are reported to the any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are Audit Committee.
cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual to owners of the Company.
and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on observable q Financial instruments market data.
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or The fair value of the put option liability over non-controlling interest is derived using a present value calculation, substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation technique has been adopted as it most closely in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method except The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting, and are held at fair value.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount Cash and cash equivalents due to the short maturity of these instruments.
On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
127 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the Income Statement as other finance expenses and income.
Derivative instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
It designates foreign currency borrowings in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or 3 classified as held for trading.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
128 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Derivative instruments continued Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest in Other Comprehensive Income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in Other Comprehensive Income are recycled in the Income Statement in the evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction Trade and other payables is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Statement within other gains losses net.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of the instrument.
Borrowings are subsequently stated Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and will be reclassified to the Income in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified Statement when the foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of.
as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
r Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Income Statement as other finance expenses and income.
Transactions in foreign currencies Derivative instruments Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
It designates foreign currency Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except borrowings in a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Translation of the results of overseas businesses The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value currency translation reserve.
of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : or 3 classified as held for trading.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Euro 1.19 1.22 1.21 1.18 US Dollar 1.59 1.58 1.67 1.52 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 9.78 9.91 10.34 9.44 Hong Kong Dollar 12.38 12.25 12.94 11.79 Korean Won 1,734 1,758 1,771 1,691 The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign exchange contracts on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 137.0: 1 in the year to 31 March 2014 2013: Yen 126.9: 1.
129 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued s Adjusted profit before taxation In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options held over equity interests held for non-speculative purposes.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax impacts are added back deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Groups partners in Japan and global licensees of fragrances, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear.
Licensing revenue from royalties received under the fragrance and beauty licence has been included in the licensing segment up to 31 March 2013.
From 1 April 2013, following the termination of the licence relationship, revenue from the sale of Beauty products is reported as part of the retail wholesale segment.
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board.
Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Retail 1,622.6 1,416.6 1,622.6 1,416.6 Wholesale 628.0 472.7 628.0 472.7 Licensing 81.6 111.4 81.6 111.4 Total segment revenue 2,250.6 1,889.3 81.6 111.4 2,332.2 2,000.7 1 Inter-segment revenue 2.4 2.0 2.4 2.0 Revenue from external customers 2,250.6 1,889.3 79.2 109.4 2,329.8 1,998.7 Depreciation and amortisation 138.6 111.1 138.6 111.1 Net impairment charges 12.3 11.3 12.3 11.3 Other non-cash expenses Share based payments 21.6 19.9 3.8 5.0 25.4 24.9 Adjusted operating profit 393.5 335.6 66.8 92.5 460.3 428.1 2 Adjusting items 16.6 77.1 Finance income 3.9 3.4 Finance expense 3.2 3.7 Profit before taxation 444.4 350.7 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
2 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
130 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Segmental analysis continued s Adjusted profit before taxation Segmental asset analysis Retail Wholesale Licensing Total In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this will m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets 160.9 253.6 160.9 253.6 include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options held over equity interests held for non-speculative purposes.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and Total segment assets 1,200.4 1,094.0 5.8 4.2 1,206.2 1,098.2 a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax Goodwill 80.2 86.3 impacts are added back deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Segmental analysis Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations 8.6 8.3 The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal Total assets per Balance Sheet 1,965.5 1,746.2 reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Additional revenue analysis Year to Year to The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Revenue by product division m m Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets 1 816.1 729.1 Accessories and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
Womens 684.0 618.2 The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a Mens 520.8 464.2 corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Childrens Other 78.4 72.6 Beauty 151.3 5.2 Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Groups partners in Japan and global licensees Retail Wholesale 2,250.6 1,889.3 Licensing 79.2 109.4 of fragrances, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear.
Licensing revenue from royalties received under the fragrance Total 2,329.8 1,998.7 and beauty licence has been included in the licensing segment up to 31 March 2013.
1 The Accessories revenue for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been restated to exclude Beauty retail sales.
Year to The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes Year to 31 March 31 March the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes 2 2013 2014 an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating Revenue by destination m m segment that is reviewed by the Board.
Wholesale 628.0 472.7 628.0 472.7 2 As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form EMEIA.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2013 have Licensing 81.6 111.4 81.6 111.4 been re-presented to reflect this organisational change.
Depreciation and amortisation 138.6 111.1 138.6 111.1 Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,116.6m for the year to 31 March 2014 Net impairment charges 12.3 11.3 12.3 11.3 2013: 1,828.3m.
This amount includes 493.8m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2013: 417.8m Other non-cash expenses and 318.2m of external revenues derived from customers in China 2013: 267.5m.
Share based payments 21.6 19.9 3.8 5.0 25.4 24.9 The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 213.7m Adjusted operating profit 393.5 335.6 66.8 92.5 460.3 428.1 2 2013: 211.5m.
The remaining 394.0m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2013: 421.1m, with 136.9m Adjusting items 16.6 77.1 located in the USA 2013: 154.3m and 84.3m located in China 2013: 73.5m.
Finance income 3.9 3.4 Finance expense 3.2 3.7 Profit before taxation 444.4 350.7 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
131 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Net operating expenses Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2013 2014 1 Note m m Selling and distribution costs 673.6 573.1 Administrative expenses 524.6 440.8 Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 Termination of licence relationship 6 82.9 Restructuring costs 6 0.6 Total 1,213.1 1,096.2 1 The year ended 31 March 2013 has been re-presented to reallocate certain costs from selling and distribution costs to administrative expenses to better reflect the nature of these costs.
Profit before taxation Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Note m m Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Within cost of sales 0.8 0.5 Within selling and distribution costs 88.7 76.2 Within administrative expenses 16.1 17.7 Amortisation of intangible assets Within selling and distribution costs 2.2 2.0 Within administrative expenses 15.9 14.7 Depreciation of investment properties 0.1 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.3 0.1 Net impairment charge relating to retail assets 12.3 11.3 1 Employee costs 441.3 385.6 Operating lease rentals Minimum lease payments 156.5 142.6 Contingent rents 83.2 73.7 Net exchange loss gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 11.5 5.0 Net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading for the year 4.2 3.4 Trade receivables net impairment reversal charge 1.5 2.1 Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 Put option liability finance charges 6 1.7 5.2 Termination of licence relationship 6 82.9 Restructuring costs 6 0.6 1 The employee costs figure for the year ended 31 March 2013 excludes costs relating to the setup of the Beauty product division which have been included within adjusting items.
Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The amortisation is presented as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The amortisation expense recognised for the year ended 31 March 2014 is 14.9m refer to note 12.
A related tax credit of 1.9m has also been recognised in the current period.
132 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Adjusting items continued Year to Year to Put option liability finance income charge 31 March 31 March The financing charge of 1.7m for the year ended 31 March 2014 2013: credit of 5.2m relates to fair value movements and 2013 2014 1 the unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co.
Refer to note 19 for further details of the carrying value of the put option liability.
No tax has been recognised on this item, Selling and distribution costs 673.6 573.1 Administrative expenses 524.6 440.8 as it is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
Adjusting items Termination of licence relationship Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 During the year ended 31 March 2013, a total of 82.9m was reported as an adjusting item relating to the termination of the Termination of licence relationship 6 82.9 fragrance and beauty licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
A tax credit of 19.1m was recognised on this charge in the Restructuring costs 6 0.6 same period.
The manufacture and distribution of Beauty products has been directly operated by the Group since 1 April 2013.
Total 1,213.1 1,096.2 No further costs relating to this transaction have been reported as adjusting in the current period.
1 The year ended 31 March 2013 has been re-presented to reallocate certain costs from selling and distribution costs to administrative expenses to better reflect the nature of these costs.
Restructuring costs No restructuring related items have been recognised in the year ended 31 March 2014.
Profit before taxation Year to Year to During the year ended 31 March 2013, a credit was recognised for the release of 0.6m of the restructuring provision held 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 in respect of the cost efficiency programme announced in the year to 31 March 2009.
A tax charge of 0.1m was recognised Note m m in relation to this adjusting item in the same period.
Profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7.
Auditor remuneration Within cost of sales 0.8 0.5 Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
All work performed by the external Within selling and distribution costs 88.7 76.2 auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee.
The overriding principle precludes the auditors Within administrative expenses 16.1 17.7 from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence.
Non-audit services are provided by the auditors Amortisation of intangible assets where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership in a particular area.
Within selling and distribution costs 2.2 2.0 Within administrative expenses 15.9 14.7 Year to Year to Depreciation of investment properties 0.1 31 March 31 March Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.3 0.1 2014 2013 Net impairment charge relating to retail assets 12.3 11.3 m m 1 Employee costs 441.3 385.6 Audit services in respect of the accounts of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.3 Operating lease rentals Audit services in respect of the accounts of subsidiary companies 1.4 1.3 Minimum lease payments 156.5 142.6 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Contingent rents 83.2 73.7 Services relating to taxation Net exchange loss gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 11.5 5.0 Compliance services 0.1 0.2 Net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading for the year 4.2 3.4 Advisory services 0.3 0.4 Trade receivables net impairment reversal charge 1.5 2.1 Other non-audit related services 0.2 0.2 Total 2.5 2.5 Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible 6 14.9 8. Financing Put option liability finance charges 6 1.7 5.2 Year to Year to Termination of licence relationship 6 82.9 31 March 31 March Restructuring costs 6 0.6 2014 2013 Note m m 1 The employee costs figure for the year ended 31 March 2013 excludes costs relating to the setup of the Beauty product division which have been included within Bank interest income 2.9 2.7 adjusting items.
Other finance income 1.0 0.7 Finance income 3.9 3.4 6.
Adjusting items Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.6 1.9 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset Bank charges 1.4 1.4 During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present Other finance expense 0.2 0.4 value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and Finance expense 3.2 3.7 wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
Other financing charges income put option liability 6 1.7 5.2 This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The amortisation is presented Net finance charge income 1.0 4.9 as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the year ended 31 March 2013.
133 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current tax UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2014 at 23% 2013: 24% 69.1 79.4 Double taxation relief 0.8 0.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.8 1.0 64.5 79.9 Foreign tax Current tax on income for the year 50.9 37.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.2 10.2 Total current tax 121.6 127.3 Deferred tax UK deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.3 19.8 Impact of changes to tax rates 4.1 1.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 1.2 6.6 19.4 Foreign deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 16.9 15.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.7 Total deferred tax 9.5 35.8 Total tax charge on profit 112.1 91.5 Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Current tax credit charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 4.6 6.8 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 4.6 6.8 Recognised in equity Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 9.6 7.3 Total current tax recognised directly in equity 9.6 7.3 Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.9 0.3 Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 2.2 1.6 Deferred tax credit on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 5.4 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.3 4.1 Recognised in equity Deferred tax charge on share options retained earnings 5.8 9.2 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 5.8 9.2 134 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation continued Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Current tax Profit before taxation 444.4 350.7 UK corporation tax Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2014 at 23% 2013: 24% 69.1 79.4 Tax at 23% 2013: 24% on profit before taxation 102.2 84.2 Double taxation relief 0.8 0.5 Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 2.9 7.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.8 1.0 Permanent differences 3.4 0.9 64.5 79.9 Current year tax losses not recognised 1.9 2.9 Foreign tax Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.4 9.3 Current tax on income for the year 50.9 37.2 Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 4.1 1.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.2 10.2 Total taxation charge 112.1 91.5 Total current tax 121.6 127.3 Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Deferred tax UK deferred tax Year to Year to Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.3 19.8 31 March 31 March Impact of changes to tax rates 4.1 1.6 2014 2013 m m Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 1.2 Adjusted profit before taxation 114.0 110.5 6.6 19.4 Adjusting items 1.9 19.0 Foreign deferred tax Total taxation charge 112.1 91.5 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 16.9 15.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.7 Total deferred tax 9.5 35.8 10.
Earnings per share Total tax charge on profit 112.1 91.5 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m 1 Current tax Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 337.2 312.4 1 Recognised in other comprehensive income Effect of adjusting items after taxation 14.7 58.1 Current tax credit charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 4.6 6.8 Attributable profit for the year 322.5 254.3 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 4.6 6.8 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
Recognised in equity Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 9.6 7.3 The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary Total current tax recognised directly in equity 9.6 7.3 shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups employee share option plan trusts ESOP trusts.
Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, Deferred tax charge credit on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.9 0.3 account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 2.2 1.6 effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share Deferred tax credit on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 5.4 incentive schemes.
Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.3 4.1 Recognised in equity Year to Year to Deferred tax charge on share options retained earnings 5.8 9.2 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 5.8 9.2 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 437.9 436.2 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 9.4 10.3 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 447.3 446.5 135 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Prior year final dividend paid 21.00p per share 2013: 18.00p 92.1 78.6 Interim dividend paid 8.80p per share 2013: 8.00p 38.6 34.9 Total 130.7 113.5 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 of 23.20p 2013: 21.00p per share, amounting to 101.8m 2013: 91.5m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 31 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014.
Intangible assets Trade marks, Intangible assets licences and Computer in the course of other intangible 1 1 software construction Goodwill assets Total Cost m m m m m 2.3 As at 1 April 2012 81.2 25.7 67.6 176.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.1 0.1 0.8 6.0 5.8 Additions 73.2 9.3 88.3 Disposals 2.1 2.1 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 2.3 2.3 5.8 As at 31 March 2013 86.3 99.0 77.9 269.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 0.4 1.6 8.8 8.4 Additions 0.3 17.3 26.0 Reclassifications from assets in the course of construction 4.9 4.9 Business combinations 0.7 0.7 9.3 As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 286.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 1 April 2012 12.3 31.4 43.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 0.5 Charge for the year 2.1 14.6 16.7 Disposals 2.1 2.1 As at 31 March 2013 14.4 44.4 58.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 1.0 1.3 Charge for the year 17.2 15.8 33.0 Net impairment charge on assets note 13 1.0 1.0 As at 31 March 2014 32.3 59.2 91.5 Net book value 9.3 As at 31 March 2014 80.2 66.6 39.3 195.4 5.8 As at 31 March 2013 86.3 84.6 33.5 210.2 1 As at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013, 2.3m and 5.8m respectively was reclassified from Computer software to Assets in the course of construction, as this was more reflective of the nature of these assets.
Fragrance and beauty intangible asset During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
This asset is presented within the intangible asset category trade mark, licences and other intangible assets, and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The carrying value of the Beauty intangible at 31 March 2014 is 56.0m 2013: 70.9m.
136 Notes to the Financial Statements 11.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company 12.
Intangible assets continued Year to Year to Burberry Thailand Limited 31 March 31 March On 29 November 2013, the Group acquired assets with a fair value of 0.8m from a franchise partner in Thailand, for a total 2014 2013 m m cash consideration of 1.5m.
As a result of this transaction, 0.7m of goodwill has been recognised in the year ended Prior year final dividend paid 21.00p per share 2013: 18.00p 92.1 78.6 31 March 2014.
Interim dividend paid 8.80p per share 2013: 8.00p 38.6 34.9 Total 130.7 113.5 Impairment testing of goodwill The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2014 of 23.20p 2013: 21.00p per share, amounting to 101.8m As at As at 2013: 91.5m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance 31 March 31 March sheet date.
The final dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will 2014 2013 be paid on 31 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 July 2014. m m 1 China 40.7 44.7 12.
Intangible assets Korea 23.3 24.4 Trade marks, Other 16.2 17.2 Intangible assets licences and Computer in the course of Total 80.2 86.3 other intangible 1 1 software construction Goodwill assets Total 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Cost m m m m m 2.3 As at 1 April 2012 81.2 25.7 67.6 176.8 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.1 0.1 0.8 6.0 recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations 5.8 Additions 73.2 9.3 88.3 for each cash generating unit are based on projected three year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted Disposals 2.1 2.1 terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital Reclassifications from assets in the course adjusted for country specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was of construction 2.3 2.3 recognised as its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, 5.8 As at 31 March 2013 86.3 99.0 77.9 269.0 the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 0.4 1.6 8.8 for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained 8.4 Additions 0.3 17.3 26.0 in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the Reclassifications from assets in the course discount rates applied.
of construction 4.9 4.9 Business combinations 0.7 0.7 The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending 9.3 As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 286.9 31 March 2017.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2015 Accumulated amortisation and impairment and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017.
The plans are based on the As at 1 April 2012 12.3 31.4 43.7 performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 0.5 plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending Charge for the year 2.1 14.6 16.7 31 March 2017 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2017.
Disposals 2.1 2.1 As at 31 March 2013 14.4 44.4 58.8 For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 1.0 1.3 calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2015.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant Charge for the year 17.2 15.8 33.0 headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management Net impairment charge on assets note 13 1.0 1.0 considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
Net book value 9.3 As at 31 March 2014 80.2 66.6 39.3 195.4 No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash 5.8 As at 31 March 2013 86.3 84.6 33.5 210.2 generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
1 As at 1 April 2012 and 31 March 2013, 2.3m and 5.8m respectively was reclassified from Computer software to Assets in the course of construction, as this was more reflective of the nature of these assets.
137 Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in the fittings and Freehold land Leasehold course of 1 equipment and buildings improvements construction Total Cost m m m m m As at 1 April 2012 54.2 247.6 270.9 34.5 607.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.9 12.3 8.9 0.4 23.7 Additions 15.0 53.5 78.0 18.8 165.3 Disposals 17.9 16.8 34.7 Transfer from assets held for sale 28.8 6.5 35.3 Reclassification from assets in the course of construction 3.3 7.6 18.8 29.7 As at 31 March 2013 104.2 303.1 366.3 23.2 796.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.6 25.4 20.7 1.7 54.4 Additions 1.0 55.4 60.4 18.1 134.9 Disposals 2.3 13.7 12.0 0.1 28.1 Reclassification from assets in the course of construction 10.2 10.3 20.5 Business combination 0.1 0.1 As at 31 March 2014 96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment As at 1 April 2012 16.9 110.4 151.1 278.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 6.1 4.6 11.2 Charge for the year 1.3 37.2 55.9 94.4 Disposals 17.9 16.7 34.6 Transfer from assets held for sale 20.5 6.5 27.0 Net impairment charge on assets 5.4 5.9 11.3 As at 31 March 2013 39.2 141.2 207.3 387.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 12.8 12.5 27.3 Charge for the year 1.5 36.0 68.1 105.6 Disposals 2.0 12.5 11.9 26.4 Net impairment charge on assets 5.7 5.6 11.3 As at 31 March 2014 36.7 157.6 256.6 450.9 Net book value As at 31 March 2014 59.6 172.0 147.8 19.0 398.4 As at 31 March 2013 65.0 161.9 159.0 23.2 409.1 1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 2.8m 2013: 3.4m.
In September 2010, 17.0m of assets were reclassified to assets held for sale, representing the carrying value of the freehold properties in Spain.
The property was subsequently written down to its fair value less costs to sell.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the conditions in the Spanish property market indicated that it may be difficult to realise the sale of the remaining property within 12 months.
As a result, at 31 March 2013 8.3m was transferred back into freehold land and buildings, representing the carrying value of this property.
Management remains committed to selling the property and continues to actively market it as such.
During the year to 31 March 2014, a net impairment charge of 12.3m 2013: 11.3m was identified as part of the annual impairment review of the retail store assets, 11.3m charged against property, plant and equipment and 1.0m charged against intangible assets.
The impairment charge relates to 29 retail cash generating units 2013: 20 cash generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 10.0m 2013: 6.6m.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the assets to the carrying values at 31 March 2014.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations were between 12.4% and 18.3% 2013: between 11.8% and 18.2%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
138 Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Deferred taxation Fixtures, Assets in the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current fittings and Freehold land Leasehold course of tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown 1 equipment and buildings improvements construction Total in the table below: Cost m m m m m As at 1 April 2012 54.2 247.6 270.9 34.5 607.2 As at As at Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.9 12.3 8.9 0.4 23.7 31 March 31 March Additions 15.0 53.5 78.0 18.8 165.3 2014 2013 Disposals 17.9 16.8 34.7 m m Transfer from assets held for sale 28.8 6.5 35.3 Deferred tax assets 116.0 117.6 Reclassification from assets in the course Deferred tax liabilities 1.0 0.8 of construction 3.3 7.6 18.8 29.7 Net amount 115.0 116.8 As at 31 March 2013 104.2 303.1 366.3 23.2 796.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.6 25.4 20.7 1.7 54.4 Year to Year to Additions 1.0 55.4 60.4 18.1 134.9 31 March 31 March Disposals 2.3 13.7 12.0 0.1 28.1 2014 2013 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m Reclassification from assets in the course As at 1 April 116.8 82.7 of construction 10.2 10.3 20.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 3.4 Business combination 0.1 0.1 Credited to the Income Statement 9.5 35.8 As at 31 March 2014 96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 4.1 Charged to equity 5.8 9.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment As at 31 March 115.0 116.8 As at 1 April 2012 16.9 110.4 151.1 278.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 6.1 4.6 11.2 Charge for the year 1.3 37.2 55.9 94.4 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances Disposals 17.9 16.7 34.6 within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Transfer from assets held for sale 20.5 6.5 27.0 Net impairment charge on assets 5.4 5.9 11.3 Deferred tax liabilities As at 31 March 2013 39.2 141.2 207.3 387.7 Unrealised Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 12.8 12.5 27.3 inventory profit and Charge for the year 1.5 36.0 68.1 105.6 other Disposals 2.0 12.5 11.9 26.4 Capital inventory Derivative Unused tax Net impairment charge on assets 5.7 5.6 11.3 allowances provisions instruments losses Other Total As at 31 March 2014 36.7 157.6 256.6 450.9 m m m m m m As at 1 April 2012 26.8 2.5 1.5 3.8 9.9 12.1 Net book value Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 As at 31 March 2014 59.6 172.0 147.8 19.0 398.4 Credited charged to the Income Statement 1.5 0.9 4.1 7.1 5.4 As at 31 March 2013 65.0 161.9 159.0 23.2 409.1 As at 31 March 2013 25.4 3.5 1.5 16.6 6.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 0.3 1.3 0.4 1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 2.8m 2013: 3.4m.
Credited charged to the Income Statement 8.3 0.4 0.2 8.1 0.8 As at 31 March 2014 15.1 3.6 1.5 0.2 7.2 5.6 In September 2010, 17.0m of assets were reclassified to assets held for sale, representing the carrying value of the freehold properties in Spain.
During the year ended Deferred tax assets 31 March 2013 the conditions in the Spanish property market indicated that it may be difficult to realise the sale of the Unrealised remaining property within 12 months.
As a result, at 31 March 2013 8.3m was transferred back into freehold land and inventory buildings, representing the carrying value of this property.
Management remains committed to selling the property and profit and other Unused continues to actively market it as such.
Capital inventory Share Derivative tax 1 Other allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Total m m m m m m m During the year to 31 March 2014, a net impairment charge of 12.3m 2013: 11.3m was identified as part of the annual As at 1 April 2012 3.8 36.2 36.6 0.2 4.7 13.7 94.8 impairment review of the retail store assets, 11.3m charged against property, plant and equipment and 1.0m charged against Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.2 1.9 0.7 2.1 3.5 intangible assets.
The impairment charge relates to 29 retail cash generating units 2013: 20 cash generating units for which Credited charged to the Income Statement 23.3 2.7 4.1 2.7 8.4 30.4 the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 10.0m 2013: 6.6m.
Charged credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 5.4 4.1 Charged to equity 9.2 9.2 Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the assets to the carrying As at 31 March 2013 25.9 35.4 31.5 1.5 2.7 29.6 123.6 values at 31 March 2014.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 3.9 0.1 2.8 7.2 each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates Charged credited to the Income Statement 5.3 1.4 0.2 0.1 15.5 8.7 using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations Credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 1.3 were between 12.4% and 18.3% 2013: between 11.8% and 18.2%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital Charged to equity 5.8 5.8 adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 0.2 2.7 42.3 120.6 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on provisions, deferred income and unrealised exchange differences deferred in equity.
139 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 20.1m 2013: 22.3m in respect of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 62.1m 2013: 68.7m that can be set off against future taxable income.
There is a time limit for the recovery of 14.9m of these potential assets 2013: 14.1m which ranges from five to nine years 2013: six to ten years.
Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 0.6m 2013: 0.6m relating to unremitted overseas earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in respect of unremitted earnings is 150m 2013: 100m.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Non-current Deposits and other receivables 31.0 29.3 Prepayments 11.3 10.6 Total non-current trade and other receivables 42.3 39.9 Current Trade receivables 171.2 116.6 Provision for doubtful debts 5.3 7.3 Net trade receivables 165.9 109.3 Other financial receivables 14.1 10.4 Other non-financial receivables 20.3 15.2 Prepayments 27.5 21.6 Accrued income 3.6 3.1 Total current trade and other receivables 231.4 159.6 Total trade and other receivables 273.7 199.5 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 59.1m 2013: 47.4m.
The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of 14.1m 2013: 27.0m were impaired.
The amount of the provision against these receivables was 5.3m as of 31 March 2014 2013: 7.3m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current 0.5 Less than one month overdue 9.7 20.4 One to three months overdue 0.7 1.8 Over three months overdue 3.7 4.3 14.1 27.0 As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of 12.8m 2013: 5.4m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Less than one month overdue 7.6 3.7 One to three months overdue 4.5 1.7 Over three months overdue 0.7 12.8 5.4 140 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Trade and other receivables continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through Movement on the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 20.1m 2013: 22.3m in respect of Year to Year to losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 62.1m 2013: 68.7m that can be set off against future taxable income.
31 March 31 March There is a time limit for the recovery of 14.9m of these potential assets 2013: 14.1m which ranges from five to nine years 2014 2013 2013: six to ten years.
m m As at 1 April 7.3 7.6 Increase in provision for doubtful debts 2.5 Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 0.6m 2013: 0.6m relating to unremitted Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.5 2.4 overseas earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries Unused provision reversed 1.5 0.4 where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the As at 31 March 5.3 7.3 foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
As at 31 March 2014 there were no impaired receivables within other receivables 2013: nil.
Trade and other receivables The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by region are: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Year to Year to m m 31 March 31 March Non-current 2014 2013 m m Deposits and other receivables 31.0 29.3 Asia Pacific 88.2 75.4 Prepayments 11.3 10.6 EMEIA 70.8 53.0 Total non-current trade and other receivables 42.3 39.9 Americas 55.6 23.7 Current 214.6 152.1 Trade receivables 171.2 116.6 Provision for doubtful debts 5.3 7.3 Net trade receivables 165.9 109.3 16.
Inventories Other financial receivables 14.1 10.4 As at As at Other non-financial receivables 20.3 15.2 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Prepayments 27.5 21.6 m m Accrued income 3.6 3.1 Raw materials 36.3 14.7 Total current trade and other receivables 231.4 159.6 Work in progress 2.7 0.7 Total trade and other receivables 273.7 199.5 Finished goods 380.8 335.6 Total inventories 419.8 351.0 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 59.1m 2013: 47.4m.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 646.2m 2013: 535.8m.
The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2014 was a cost of 13.3m or where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year is 11.0m 2013: 5.5m.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Current 0.5 Less than one month overdue 9.7 20.4 One to three months overdue 0.7 1.8 Over three months overdue 3.7 4.3 14.1 27.0 As at 31 March 2014, trade receivables of 12.8m 2013: 5.4m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Less than one month overdue 7.6 3.7 One to three months overdue 4.5 1.7 Over three months overdue 0.7 12.8 5.4 141 Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments Cash flow hedges The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts.
These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges.
The Groups foreign currency denominated transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases.
Master netting arrangements The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject to these ISDA agreements.
Derivative financial assets As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 4.6 8.3 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.5 12.0 Total position 5.1 20.3 Comprising: Total non-current position 0.5 0.2 Total current position 4.6 20.1 Derivative financial liabilities As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 1.2 0.1 Equity swap contracts held for trading 1.3 0.7 Total position 2.5 0.8 Comprising: Total non-current position 0.9 0.7 Total current position 1.6 0.1 Net derivative financial instruments As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts 218.4 200.1 Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 17.9 20.1 142 Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Cash flow hedges Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior exchange contracts.
The Groups foreign currency denominated to the contractual maturity.
The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at balance sheet date.
transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases.
Contractual maturities Contractual cash 1 to 6 6 to 12 1 to 2 Master netting arrangements Carrying amount flows months months years The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and m m m m m Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each As at 31 March 2014 counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding Outflow 214.1 99.2 106.6 8.3 Inflow 217.3 101.5 107.5 8.3 transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable 3.4 3.2 2.3 0.9 in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the As at 31 March 2013 Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject Outflow 194.8 116.0 78.8 to these ISDA agreements.
Inflow 202.6 120.6 82.0 8.2 7.8 4.6 3.2 Derivative financial assets As at As at 31 March 31 March The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
Cash and cash equivalents Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 4.6 8.3 As at As at Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.5 12.0 31 March 31 March Total position 5.1 20.3 2014 2013 m m Comprising: Cash at bank and in hand 275.4 234.7 Total non-current position 0.5 0.2 Short-term deposits 270.1 191.7 Total current position 4.6 20.1 Total 545.5 426.4 Derivative financial liabilities 19.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 March 31 March As at As at 2014 2013 31 March 31 March 1 m m 2013 2014 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 1.2 0.1 m m Equity swap contracts held for trading 1.3 0.7 Non-current Total position 2.5 0.8 Put option liability over non-controlling interest 51.3 55.0 Comprising: Other payables 4.4 5.1 Total non-current position 0.9 0.7 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 51.7 47.9 Total current position 1.6 0.1 Total non-current trade and other payables 107.4 108.0 Current Trade payables 174.3 118.2 Net derivative financial instruments Other taxes and social security costs 48.5 43.6 As at As at 31 March 31 March Deferred consideration 1.1 2014 2013 Other payables 5.7 9.1 m m Accruals 140.1 140.6 Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts 218.4 200.1 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 31.2 27.2 Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 17.9 20.1 Total current trade and other payables 399.8 339.8 Total trade and other payables 507.2 447.8 1 As at 31 March 2013, 19.0m was reclassified from Deferred income and non-financial accruals to Other taxes and social security costs, as this was more reflective of the nature of these liabilities.
Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 131.4m 2013: 118.7m of which 51.7m are non-current 2013: 47.9m.
143 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other payables continued Put option liability over non-controlling interest Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options exist over this interest stake which are exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put option.
The net present value of the put option has been recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39.
The value of the put option liability is 51.3m at 31 March 2014 2013: 55.0m.
The movement in the liability for the period includes an increase of 1.7m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of translation of the put liability to the Groups presentational currency.
The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option are the future performance of the Groups business in China: the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free rate in China.
The future performance of the business is estimated by using managements business plans together with longterm observable growth forecasts.
The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject to change, in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
A 10% increase decrease in the future performance of the Groups business in China at the put option exercise date would result in a 5.1m increase decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding 5.1m loss gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014.
A 1% increase decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a 3.0m decrease 3.1m increase in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding 3.0m gain 3.1m loss in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Ultimately, the put option liability is subject to a contractual cap of 200m.
The undiscounted value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014 is 115.3m 2013: 144.5m.
144 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other payables continued 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Property Restructuring Other Put option liability over non-controlling interest obligations costs costs Total Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group m m m m company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options exist over this interest stake Balance as at 1 April 2012 18.5 3.5 1.3 23.3 which are exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6 0.2 0.4 option.
Created during the year 10.1 5.0 15.1 Discount unwind 0.4 0.4 Utilised during the year 1.8 1.0 0.6 3.4 The value of the put option liability is 51.3m at 31 March 2014 2013: 55.0m.
The movement in the liability for the period Released during the year 2.0 0.6 0.5 3.1 includes an increase of 1.7m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of Balance as at 31 March 2013 25.8 1.9 5.0 32.7 translation of the put liability to the Groups presentational currency.
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 1.6 Created during the year 6.3 0.2 6.5 The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option are the future performance of the Groups business in China: Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 the average historic Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the risk free Utilised during the year 3.4 0.4 0.9 4.7 rate in China.
The future performance of the business is estimated by using managements business plans together with longReleased during the year 4.4 2.1 6.5 term observable growth forecasts.
Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject As at As at to change, in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period or 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
m m Analysis of total provisions: A 10% increase decrease in the future performance of the Groups business in China at the put option exercise date would result Non-current 15.9 19.8 in a 5.1m increase decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding 5.1m Current 10.7 12.9 loss gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Total 26.6 32.7 A 1% increase decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a 3.0m decrease 3.1m increase in the The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2014, and a corresponding 3.0m gain 3.1m loss in the profit before to be utilised within 22 years.
Of the total 1.5m restructuring provision 2013: 1.9m, 1.4m represents a current liability taxation for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The 0.1m non-current portion relates to an onerous lease 2013: 0.2m.
The undiscounted value of the put option liability 21.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings at 31 March 2014 is 115.3m 2013: 144.5m.
Included within bank overdrafts is 140.9m 2013: 125.6m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
The Group has a number of committed and uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.
At 31 March 2014, the Group held bank overdrafts of 2.1m 2013: 4.2m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
On 28 March 2011, a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility was agreed with a syndicate of third-party banks.
At 31 March 2014, there were no outstanding drawings 2013: nil.
Interest is charged on this facility at LIBOR plus 0.90% on drawings less than 100m: at LIBOR plus 1.05% on drawings between 100m and 200m: and at LIBOR plus 1.20% on drawings over 200m.
The facility matures on 30 June 2016.
145 Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Share capital and reserves Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2013: 0.05p each As at 1 April 2012 438,768,108 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 3,392,223 As at 31 March 2013 442,160,331 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 At 31 March 2014, there were no 0.05p ordinary shares in issue held as treasury shares 2013: 30,027.
The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2014, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company under this authority 2013: nil.
The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2014 the amounts offset against this reserve are 69.7m 2013: 88.1m.
As at 31 March 2014, the ESOP trusts held 5.2m shares 2013: 6.9m in the Company, with a market value of 72.5m 2013: 91.7m.
In the year to 31 March 2014 the Burberry Group plc ESOP trust has waived its entitlement to dividends of 1.3m 2013: 1.0m.
During the year profits of 3.0m 2013: 3.1m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of subsidiaries.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
Other Reserves Capital Hedging Foreign currency reserve reserve translation reserve Total m m m m Balance as at 1 April 2012 33.9 4.9 118.6 157.4 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 6.9 6.9 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 1.2 1.2 Foreign currency translation differences 33.8 33.8 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.3 1.4 2.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 4.4 32.4 36.8 Transfer between reserves 3.1 3.1 Balance as at 31 March 2013 37.0 9.3 151.0 197.3 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 4.2 4.2 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 9.2 9.2 Foreign currency translation differences 50.9 50.9 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.3 4.6 5.9 Total comprehensive expense for the year 3.7 46.3 50.0 Transfer between reserves 3.0 3.0 Balance as at 31 March 2014 40.0 5.6 104.7 150.3 146 Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Financial commitments Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2013: 0.05p each arrangements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating As at 1 April 2012 438,768,108 0.2 to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: Allotted on exercise of options during the year 3,392,223 As at 31 March 2013 442,160,331 0.2 As at As at Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 m m Amounts falling due: At 31 March 2014, there were no 0.05p ordinary shares in issue held as treasury shares 2013: 30,027.
Within one year 166.0 139.9 Between two and five years 407.2 343.6 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum After five years 197.2 177.6 of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2014, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company Total 770.4 661.1 under this authority 2013: nil.
The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease.
Under certain revenue leases, there available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2014 the amounts offset against this reserve are 69.7m are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a result, the amounts charged 2013: 88.1m.
As at 31 March 2014, the ESOP trusts held 5.2m shares 2013: 6.9m in the Company, with a market to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land and buildings is as follows: During the year profits of 3.0m 2013: 3.1m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of subsidiaries.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising Leases Subleases on the purchase of own shares.
As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 Other Reserves m m m m Capital Hedging Foreign currency Amounts falling due: reserve reserve translation reserve Total Within one year 0.7 0.7 0.5 1.2 m m m m Between two and five years 3.0 3.0 1.8 1.5 Balance as at 1 April 2012 33.9 4.9 118.6 157.4 After five years 0.7 1.5 0.2 Other comprehensive income: Total 4.4 5.2 2.3 2.9 Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 6.9 6.9 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 1.2 1.2 Foreign currency translation differences 33.8 33.8 24.
Capital commitments Tax on other comprehensive income 1.3 1.4 2.7 As at As at 31 March 31 March Total comprehensive income for the year 4.4 32.4 36.8 2014 2013 Transfer between reserves 3.1 3.1 m m Balance as at 31 March 2013 37.0 9.3 151.0 197.3 Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: Other comprehensive income: Property, plant and equipment 26.1 25.8 Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 4.2 4.2 Intangible assets 2.2 1.6 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 9.2 9.2 Total 28.3 27.4 Foreign currency translation differences 50.9 50.9 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.3 4.6 5.9 Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major Total comprehensive expense for the year 3.7 46.3 50.0 capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment Transfer between reserves 3.0 3.0 and intangible assets.
Financial risk management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably.
Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies of the Group treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging external foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts see note 17.
The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated external cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for reporting purposes.
It has not entered into any specific transactions for this purpose within the current or previous year.
At 31 March 2014, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening by 20% 2013: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 7.2m 2013: decrease increase 9.3m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling denominated loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease increase equity by 16.1m 2013: decrease increase 6.4m on a post-tax basis.
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage currency exposure.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received or paid in cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put liability over the non-controlling interest which are recognised in Other financing income and charges.
As at 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2013 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net m m m m m m Sterling 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 US Dollar 31.0 22.7 8.3 0.6 4.7 4.1 Euro 52.3 57.9 5.6 41.4 23.3 18.1 1 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 51.3 51.3 55.0 55.0 Other currencies 6.9 3.6 3.3 1.9 2.0 0.1 Total 90.3 135.8 45.5 44.1 85.0 40.9 1 The balance includes the put option over the non-controlling interest see note 19.
148 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings, trade Share price risk and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share based incentive schemes.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employers national to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably.
Group insurance liability on an ongoing basis.
An increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies increase decrease in profit after tax of 0.1m 2013: 1.2m.
of the Group treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and Market risk external borrowings.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2014 are 143.0m 2013: 129.8m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances of 140.9m 2013: 125.6m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2014, The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency if interest rates on the remaining borrowings of 2.1m 2013: 4.2m had been 100 basis points higher lower 2013: 100 basis fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging external foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward points with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been nil 2013: nil lower higher, foreign exchange contracts see note 17. as a result of higher lower interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated external cash flows in each major foreign currency The fixed rate financial liabilities consist of amounts owed under a finance lease of 2.6m 2013: 3.2m.
that qualify as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
The floating rate financial assets, being short-term deposits, are 270.1m as at 31 March 2014 2013: 191.7m.
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for At 31 March 2014, if interest rates on short-term deposits had been 100 basis points higher lower 2013: 100 basis points, reporting purposes.
with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.3m 2013: 1.5m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income on short-term deposits.
The effect on translating foreign currency The Group has no other significant floating rate foreign currency borrowings and therefore is not materially exposed denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value to movements in foreign currency interest rates.
through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 7.2m 2013: decrease increase 9.3m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling denominated Credit risk loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease increase equity by 16.1m The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number 2013: decrease increase 6.4m on a post-tax basis.
of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 7% of the total balance due.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received or paid in of overdue receivables is included in note 15. cash.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put liability over the non-controlling During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
interest which are recognised in Other financing income and charges.
As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 16.0m 15 year interest free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2014 As at 31 March 2013 the discounted fair value of the loan is 8.6m 2013: 8.7m.
Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
m m m m m m Sterling 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain US Dollar 31.0 22.7 8.3 0.6 4.7 4.1 derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum Euro 52.3 57.9 5.6 41.4 23.3 18.1 1 exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure Chinese Yuan Renminbi 51.3 51.3 55.0 55.0 Other currencies 6.9 3.6 3.3 1.9 2.0 0.1 to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of A Total 90.3 135.8 45.5 44.1 85.0 40.9 other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 29.1m was held with institutions with a rating below A at 31 March 2014, of which 27.0m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
These amounts are monitored 1 The balance includes the put option over the non-controlling interest see note 19. on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
The Group has deposited nil 2013: 0.1m, CHF 0.3m 2013: CHF 0.3m, INR 0.2m 2013: INR 0.2m and AED 0.3m 2013: AED 0.3m which is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
149 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, see note 21.
All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The carrying value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m In more than one year, but not more than two years 5.9 7.6 In more than two years, but not more than three years 3.0 3.6 In more than three years, but not more than four years 1.1 1.7 In more than four years, but not more than five years 0.8 1.2 In more than five years 117.5 148.0 Total financial liabilities 128.3 162.1 Non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over noncontrolling interests.
Capital risk The Group manages its capital defined as net cash plus equity excluding non-controlling interest to ensure that entities in the Group are able to operate as going concerns and optimise returns to shareholders.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had net cash of 402.5m 2013: 296.6m and total equity excluding non-controlling interest of 1,165.4m 2013: 1,017.0m.
The Group has access to a facility of 300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2014.
For further details refer to note 21.
Cash is used to fund the continued investment in the Group and growth of the global brand.
It is also used to make routine outflows of capital expenditure, tax and dividends.
The Group's dividend policy sets its payout target as around 40% of adjusted diluted EPS.
The Board reviews the Groups dividend policy and funding requirements annually.
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities, and has been in compliance throughout the financial year.
Employee costs Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106 and forms part of these financial statements, includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 348.6 306.5 Social security costs and other taxes 50.4 42.2 Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 25.4 24.9 Other pension costs 16.9 13.4 Total 441.3 387.0 150 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Employee costs continued Liquidity risk The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs Number of employees and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain Year to Year to flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
31 March 31 March 2 2014 2013 All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The carrying 1 EMEIA 4,757 4,342 value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Americas 1,807 1,670 Asia Pacific 3,134 2,855 The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding Total 9,698 8,867 derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
2 As a result of an internal reorganisation, the Europe and Rest of World divisions were integrated to form EMEIA.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2013 have As at As at been re-presented to reflect this organisational change.
31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Share options granted to directors and employees In more than one year, but not more than two years 5.9 7.6 The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details In more than two years, but not more than three years 3.0 3.6 of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option and award schemes have been valued using the BlackIn more than three years, but not more than four years 1.1 1.7 Scholes option pricing model.
In more than four years, but not more than five years 0.8 1.2 In more than five years 117.5 148.0 The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the Total financial liabilities 128.3 162.1 commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: Non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over nonand an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the controlling interests.
market price of Burberry Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
Capital risk The Group manages its capital defined as net cash plus equity excluding non-controlling interest to ensure that entities in the The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market-based performance conditions attached, has been valued Group are able to operate as going concerns and optimise returns to shareholders.
At 31 March 2014, the Group had net cash using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running of 402.5m 2013: 296.6m and total equity excluding non-controlling interest of 1,165.4m 2013: 1,017.0m.
The Group has a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
access to a facility of 300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2014.
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas Cash is used to fund the continued investment in the Group and growth of the global brand.
It is also used to make routine equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes refer to note 25. outflows of capital expenditure, tax and dividends.
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities, and has been ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
in compliance throughout the financial year.
On 20 June 2013, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered 26.
The savings contract commencement date for this grant was 1 September 2013.
These options are exercisable Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2016 and 1 September 2018 for the three-year and five-year schemes separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106 and forms part of these financial statements, respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from the London Stock Exchange.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 348.6 306.5 Social security costs and other taxes 50.4 42.2 Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 25.4 24.9 Other pension costs 16.9 13.4 Total 441.3 387.0 151 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Savings-Related Share Option Scheme continued The fair value per option for the grant was determined as 2.32.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Share price at contract commencement date 15.34 Exercise price 12.20 Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Dividend yield 2.58% Expected volatility 37.7% Risk free interest rate 0.88% Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Weighted Year to Weighted average Year to average exercise 31 March exercise 31 March price 2014 price 2013 Outstanding at 1 April 895.7p 1,009,317 682.5p 1,022,728 Granted during the year 1,220.0p 313,852 1,104.0p 355,589 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,020.5p 104,476 873.9p 107,359 Withdrawn during the year 1,001.5p 34,893 861.3p 15,872 Exercised during the year 549.5p 225,710 321.8p 245,769 Outstanding at 31 March 1,066.0p 958,090 895.7p 1,009,317 Exercisable at 31 March 321.0p 4,231 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.78 2013: 12.80.
Under the plan, participants may be awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum.
Awards granted in 2009 and 2010 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers and at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth.
A proportion of an award 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 3% per annum over three years.
Vesting against each metric occurs on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vests after three years.
The remaining 50% vests in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
152 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Savings-Related Share Option Scheme continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The fair value per option for the grant was determined as 2.32.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were Awards granted in 2011 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 15% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three as follows: year vesting period.
A proportion of an award 25% vests if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 5% per annum.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Share price at contract commencement date 15.34 Exercise price 12.20 Awards granted in 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers Life of award Equivalent to and at least 15% per annum adjusted PBT growth.
A proportion of an award 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the vesting period median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 10% per annum over three years.
Vesting against each metric Dividend yield 2.58% occurs on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% Expected volatility 37.7% vests after three years.
Risk free interest rate 0.88% Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: of the Company.
Weighted Year to Weighted average Year to average exercise 31 March exercise 31 March Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: price 2014 price 2013 Outstanding at 1 April 895.7p 1,009,317 682.5p 1,022,728 Year to Year to Granted during the year 1,220.0p 313,852 1,104.0p 355,589 31 March 31 March Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,020.5p 104,476 873.9p 107,359 2014 2013 Withdrawn during the year 1,001.5p 34,893 861.3p 15,872 Outstanding at 1 April 7,759,198 9,335,537 Exercised during the year 549.5p 225,710 321.8p 245,769 Granted during the year 2,809,173 2,569,147 Outstanding at 31 March 1,066.0p 958,090 895.7p 1,009,317 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 658,330 1,110,076 Exercisable at 31 March 321.0p 4,231 Exercised during the year 2,234,533 3,035,410 Outstanding at 31 March 7,675,508 7,759,198 Exercisable at 31 March 361,189 425,204 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.78 2013: 12.80.
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.23 2013: 12.86.
Under the plan, participants may be awarded 16 November 2012 15 November 2022 127,588 127,588 shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum.
14 June 2013 13 June 2023 2,308,326 17 June 2013 16 June 2023 243,542 Awards granted in 2009 and 2010 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least upper quartile TSR relative to its global peers 25 November 2013 24 November 2023 22,994 and at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth.
A proportion of an award 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the Total 7,675,508 7,759,198 median of the peer group or if adjusted PBT growth exceeds 3% per annum over three years.
153 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The fair values for the awards granted on 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013 with PBT performance conditions were determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
A discount was applied to the awards with the TSR performance condition, by applying the Monte Carlo model.
14 June 17 June 25 November 2013 2013 2013 Fair value: PBT performance conditions 12.68 12.68 13.86 Fair value: TSR performance conditions 4.60 4.60 5.03 The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: 14 June 17 June 25 November 2013 2013 2013 Share price at grant date 13.70 13.70 14.98 Exercise price nil nil nil Life of award Equivalent to Equivalent to Equivalent to vesting period vesting period vesting period Dividend yield 2.58% 2.58% 2.58% Expected volatility 37.6% 37.6% 37.5% Risk free interest rate 0.64% 0.64% 0.92% The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 During previous financial years, options were granted to executive directors and senior management in respect of ordinary shares in the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The options vested in three stages: 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and the remaining 33% were exercisable after three years.
The vesting of these share options was dependent on continued employment over the vesting period.
The number of options outstanding and exercisable at 1 April 2013 was 100,833.
These options were all exercised during the current year ended 31 March 2014, for a weighted average exercise price of 2.95.
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates during the year was 14.92 2013: 14.80.
154 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued All Employee Share Plan The fair values for the awards granted on 14 June 2013, 17 June 2013 and 25 November 2013 with PBT performance Employees are offered awards of ordinary shares in the Company at a nil exercise price under an All Employee Share Plan.
conditions were determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
A discount was applied to the awards On 17 July 2013, 205,050 ordinary shares were granted under this scheme 2013: 190,380.
All awards vest after three years with the TSR performance condition, by applying the Monte Carlo model.
and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the vesting period.
14 June 17 June 25 November The fair value of the awards was determined as 15.00.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 2013 2013 2013 Fair value: PBT performance conditions 12.68 12.68 13.86 17 July Fair value: TSR performance conditions 4.60 4.60 5.03 2013 Share price at grant date 15.00 Exercise price nil The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 37.7% 14 June 17 June 25 November 2013 2013 2013 Risk free interest rate 0.59% Share price at grant date 13.70 13.70 14.98 Exercise price nil nil nil Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Life of award Equivalent to Equivalent to Equivalent to vesting period vesting period vesting period Year to Year to Dividend yield 2.58% 2.58% 2.58% 31 March 31 March Expected volatility 37.6% 37.6% 37.5% 2014 2013 Risk free interest rate 0.64% 0.64% 0.92% Outstanding at 1 April 454,190 348,920 Granted during the year 205,050 190,380 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 74,280 72,920 The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 Exercised during the year 126,550 12,190 During previous financial years, options were granted to executive directors and senior management in respect of ordinary Outstanding at 31 March 458,410 454,190 shares in the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Exercisable at 31 March 53,320 27,710 The options vested in three stages: 33% were exercisable after one year, 33% were exercisable after two years and The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.56 2013: 12.89. the remaining 33% were exercisable after three years.
Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: The number of options outstanding and exercisable at 1 April 2013 was 100,833.
These options were all exercised during Number of Number of the current year ended 31 March 2014, for a weighted average exercise price of 2.95.
The weighted average share price awards as at awards as at at the respective exercise dates during the year was 14.92 2013: 14.80.
The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082.
155 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Co-Investment Plan Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year.
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period.
The exercise price of these share awards is nil.
The awards are also subject to secondary performance conditions.
Awards granted in June 2011, 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three year vesting period.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per annum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT growth is below 5% per annum.
The fair value of the awards granted on 14 June 2013 was determined as 13.55.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 14 June 2013 Share price at grant date 13.55 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 37.6% Risk free interest rate 0.64% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 Outstanding at 1 April 5,179,615 4,096,240 Granted during the year 934,419 1,734,471 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 709,422 604,032 Withdrawn during the year 4,276 47,064 Exercised during the year 2,051,826 Outstanding at 31 March 3,348,510 5,179,615 Exercisable at 31 March Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March Term of the award 2014 2013 8 June 2010 7 June 2015 2,150,552 7 June 2011 6 June 2016 1,351,474 1,409,022 14 June 2011 13 June 2016 11,206 67,502 18 July 2012 17 July 2017 1,225,803 1,552,539 14 June 2013 13 June 2018 760,027 Total 3,348,510 5,179,615 December 2010 One-Off Grant On 8 December 2010, options in respect of 850,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award.
The options are due to vest on 1 April 2015.
Strategic and financial objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must be met in order for 500,000 of the options to vest.
The vesting of all of the options is dependent on continued employment for the vesting period.
The exercise price of these share options is nil.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 2016.
156 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Co-Investment Plan December 2010 One-Off Grant continued Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year.
Year to Year to The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period.
The exercise 31 March 31 March price of these share awards is nil.
The awards are 2014 2013 also subject to secondary performance conditions.
Outstanding at 1 April 850,000 850,000 Forfeited during the year 500,000 Awards granted in June 2011, 2012 and 2013 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT Outstanding at 31 March 350,000 850,000 growth over the three year vesting period.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per Exercisable at 31 March annum.
June 2013 One-off Grant On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: The options are due to vest in three stages: 20% are exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date: 40% are exercisable on the fourth anniversary of the grant date: and the remaining 40% are exercisable on the fifth anniversary of the grant date.
14 June The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
2013 Share price at grant date 13.55 Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019.
Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period The fair value of the award was determined as 13.70.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Expected volatility 37.6% Risk free interest rate 0.64% 14 June 2013 Share price at grant date 13.70 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to Year to Year to vesting period 31 March 31 March Expected volatility 37.6% 2014 2013 Risk free interest rate 0.64% Outstanding at 1 April 5,179,615 4,096,240 Granted during the year 934,419 1,734,471 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 709,422 604,032 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Withdrawn during the year 4,276 47,064 Exercised during the year 2,051,826 Year to 31 March Outstanding at 31 March 3,348,510 5,179,615 2014 Exercisable at 31 March Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 1,000,000 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 Exercisable at 31 March Number of Number of awards as at awards as at 31 March 31 March 27.
Related party transactions Term of the award 2014 2013 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated 8 June 2010 7 June 2015 2,150,552 on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined 7 June 2011 6 June 2016 1,351,474 1,409,022 as the Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
14 June 2011 13 June 2016 11,206 67,502 18 July 2012 17 July 2017 1,225,803 1,552,539 The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: 14 June 2013 13 June 2018 760,027 Total 3,348,510 5,179,615 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March December 2010 One-Off Grant 2014 2013 m m On 8 December 2010, options in respect of 850,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award.
Salaries and short-term benefits 15.0 9.5 Termination payments 0.4 The options are due to vest on 1 April 2015.
Strategic and financial objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.1 be met in order for 500,000 of the options to vest.
The vesting of all of the options is dependent on continued employment for Share based compensation 3.0 6.6 the vesting period.
Total 18.2 16.6 Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 2016.
157 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Principal subsidiaries Company Note Country of incorporation Nature of business EMEIA Burberry Limited UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Burberry Italy Retail Limited UK Luxury goods retailer 1 The Scotch House Limited UK Luxury goods brand and licensor Burberry France SASU France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler 1 Burberry Suisse SA Switzerland Luxury goods retailer Burberry Spain Retail SL Spain Luxury goods retailer 1 Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Austria GmbH Austria Luxury goods retailer Burberry Antwerp N. V. Belgium Luxury goods retailer Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o. Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer Burberry Hungary kft.
Hungary Luxury goods retailer Burberry Ireland Limited Ireland Luxury goods retailer Burberry Netherlands BV Netherlands Luxury goods retailer Burberry Middle East LLC 49% United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry India Private Limited 51% India Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Saudi Company Limited 60% Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Luxury goods retailer Americas Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Canada Inc Canada Luxury goods retailer Burberry Brasil Participacoes Ltd Brazil Luxury goods retailer Horseferry Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Luxury goods retailer Asia Pacific Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd Peoples Republic of China Luxury goods retailer Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Limited Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Luxury goods retailer Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer Burberry Japan K. K. Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Burberry International K. K. 71% 29 Japan Luxury goods retailer Burberry Thailand Limited Thailand Luxury goods retailer 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
In accordance with Section 410 2 a of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
As at 31 March 2014, all principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, except where indicated differently above, and operate in the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy.
All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Burberry Limited.
The Group holds 100% of Burberry Limiteds ordinary and preference shares.
All the subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated as at 31 March 2014.
The Group has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC and has the power to appoint both the Chairperson and the majority of directors on the Board, thus establishing control.
Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the list above.
Sparkle Roll Holding Limited, a non-Group company, holds a 15% economic interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd.
Details of all Burberry subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Burberry Group plc to be filed at Companies House.
158 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Non-controlling interest in Burberry International K. K. On 29 March 2013, Burberry International Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Burberry Group plc, signed Company Note Country of incorporation Nature of business an amendment to the shareholder agreement for Burberry International Kabushiki Kaisha, a company in which Burberry EMEIA International Holdings Limited held a controlling 51% interest at 31 March 2013.
The amendment entitled Burberry International Burberry Limited UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Holdings Limited to the option to acquire the remaining equity in Burberry International K. K. from the minority interest partners, Burberry Italy Retail Limited UK Luxury goods retailer Mitsui and Co. Ltd and Sanyo Shokai Limited, at a nominal fixed price on or after 1 April 2013 and 1 April 2014 respectively.
1 The Scotch House Limited UK Luxury goods brand and licensor As a result of acquiring these call options, it was deemed that the risks and rewards of ownership of the non-controlling interest Burberry France SASU France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler in Burberry International K. K. transferred to Burberry International Holdings Limited.
Consequently, the non-controlling interest 1 Burberry Suisse SA Switzerland Luxury goods retailer was derecognised at 31 March 2013, resulting in a transfer of 4.2m from non-controlling interest to equity attributable to Burberry Spain Retail SL Spain Luxury goods retailer 1 owners of the Company.
Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Austria GmbH Austria Luxury goods retailer On 30 April 2013, the Group exercised its option over the 20% equity stake previously held by Mitsui and Co. Ltd, increasing Burberry Antwerp N. V. Belgium Luxury goods retailer its equity holding to 71%.
Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o. Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer Burberry Hungary kft.
Contingent Liabilities Burberry Ireland Limited Ireland Luxury goods retailer The Group is subject to claims against it and tax audits covering, amongst others, valued added taxes, sales taxes, customs Burberry Netherlands BV Netherlands Luxury goods retailer duties, corporate taxes and payroll taxes.
These arise in the normal course of business and in a number of jurisdictions.
Burberry Middle East LLC 49% United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
Where appropriate, the estimated cost of known obligations have been Burberry India Private Limited 51% India Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler provided in these financial statements in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
While changes to the amounts Burberry Saudi Company Limited 60% Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Luxury goods retailer that may be payable could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised the Group does not expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
Americas Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Canada Inc Canada Luxury goods retailer Burberry Brasil Participacoes Ltd Brazil Luxury goods retailer Horseferry Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Luxury goods retailer Asia Pacific Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd Peoples Republic of China Luxury goods retailer Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Limited Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Luxury goods retailer Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
