82 Notes to the notice of annual general meeting 1.
A member who holds ordinary shares on the register of members and is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his or her place or in the case of a corporation, to appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Corporation.
Proxy rights do not apply to nominated persons although the nominated person may have a right under an agreement with the registered member to appoint a proxy.
In addition to instructing a proxy to vote for or against a resolution, the form enables shareholders to instruct a vote withheld if preferred.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes.
It may be used, for example, to convey a message of dissatisfaction on a particular issue, where the strength of feeling is not so great as to oppose the resolution, but supporting it is not appropriate either.
Shareholders who hold shares on the register of members as opposed to holding them in a nominee will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the meeting.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged electronically by accessing www.
co. uk eproxy or by post at the office of the Corporations registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
CREST members can register votes electronically by using the service provided by Euroclear.
Proxies must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
This is also the voting record date by which a person must be entered on the register in order to have a right to attend and vote at the meeting.
Lodgement of a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting in person.
The register of directors interests will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Corporation during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting.
No director has a service contract with the Corporation of more than one years duration.
Subject to the dividend on the ordinary shares now recommended being approved at the annual general meeting, dividend payments will be made on 23 April 2015 to shareholders on the register on the record date on 20 March 2015.
Resolution 2 is to receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The remuneration report, which follows the format required by the relevant regulations, is set out at pages 42 to 44 of the annual report.
Resolution 4: Caroline Banszky offers herself for re-election.
The board supports her re-election.
She continues to be a very effective managing director, improving profitability of the independent fiduciary services business and thus enhancing shareholder value.
Her biography is included on page 45 of the annual report.
Resolution 5: Christopher Smith offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his re-election.
He brings a wealth of corporate finance experience to the board along with a thorough knowledge of the investment trust sector and regulatory matters.
He has demonstrated that he is a skilful and effective chairman.
His biography is included on page 45 of the annual report.
Resolution 6: Robert Laing offers himself for re-election.
The board supports his election.
The board believes that its effectiveness is greatly enhanced by having a non-executive director with a legal background and experience of one or more of the fiduciary services sectors where Law Debenture operates.
Robert Laing matches this requirement.
He is an effective director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
Resolution 7: Mark Bridgeman offers himself for re-election.
The board believes that it is essential to appoint a non-executive director with fund management experience and Mark fulfils that need.
He has established himself as an effective director and chairman of the audit committee.
Resolution 8 is to re-appoint BDO LLP as the Corporations auditors.
BDO LLP were first appointed on 31 October 2008.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
Resolution 9 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to allot unissued capital not exceeding 5,915,745 shares, being 5% of the issued share capital.
This authority would be exercised only at times when it would be advantageous to the Corporations shareholders to do so.
Shares would not be issued under this authority at a price lower than market price or net asset value at the time of the issue.
If approved, the authority will continue to operate until the next annual general meeting.
Special resolution 10 is proposed because the directors consider that in order to allot shares in the circumstances described in resolution 9 it is in the best interests of the Corporation and its shareholders to permit the allotment of a maximum of 5,915,745 shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
The board would not, however, issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis within any three year period.
Special resolution 11 renews the authority given to directors at the last annual general meeting to purchase ordinary shares in the market for cancellation.
Such purchases at appropriate times and prices could be a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value and would be applied within guidelines set from time to time by the board.
It should be noted that no such purchases would be undertaken if shares were trading at a premium to net asset value.
Special resolution 12 seeks authority to convene a general meeting but not the annual general meeting by giving not less than 14 clear days notice.
While the directors have no current intention to call a general meeting in the year ahead, circumstances might arise when such a meeting might become necessary and the directors deem it in the best interests of shareholders that it be held as quickly as possible.
Such circumstances might include, for example, a decision to make a significant amendment to the investment strategy shareholder approval for such a change being a regulatory stipulation.
Special resolution 13 amends article 113 of the Corporations articles of association.
Recent changes to the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and to the Companies Act 2006 mean that investment trusts are no longer prohibited from making dividend distributions out of capital profits.
The statutory amendments were brought in to align the law relating to investment trusts with general company law and to enable companies to manage their dividend policies by enabling the payment of dividends when income profits might not be available for distribution.
The existing text of article 113 prevents this the proposed new article reverses that prohibition.
The board wishes to be clear that it has no current intention of making any distribution of the Corporations capital profits by way of a dividend.
It will continue, so far as practicable, to cover the payment of dividends out of distributable current year profits.
Nevertheless, the board feels that it should take the flexibility to pay dividends out of capital that the law now allows, in case future circumstances dictate that a dividend distribution from capital profits was necessary or desirable.
The board therefore believes that it is appropriate to ask shareholders to approve the adoption of the new article 113.
Meeting notice requirements the Corporation is required under the Act to make a number of additional disclosures as follows.
com investment-trust investor-information contains a copy of this notice, which includes the current total voting rights, as set out below.
Should the required number of members requisition the Corporation to publish any statement about the audit or related matters that the relevant members propose to raise at the AGM in accordance with section 527 of the Act, this would be published at the Corporations expense on the website and forwarded to the auditor.
Similarly, any shareholder statements, resolutions and matters of business connected with the meeting received after publication of this notice will be published on the website subject to compliance by the submitting party with the Act.
At the AGM, the Corporation will cause to be answered any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a shareholder in attendance.
Total voting rights and share information The Corporation has an issued share capital at 26 February 2015 of 118,314,903 ordinary shares with voting rights and no restrictions and no special rights with regard to control of the Corporation.
There are no other classes of share capital and none of the Corporations issued shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total number of voting rights in The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. is 118,314,903. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
