78 Shareholder information Investment trust status Registrars The Corporation carries on business as an investment Our registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, trust company as defined in Sections 1158-1159 of the operate a dedicated telephone service for Law Debenture Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The directors will endeavour to shareholders 0870 707 1129.
Shareholders can use this conduct its affairs so as to enable it to maintain HMRC number to access holding balances, dividend payment approval of the Corporations status in this respect.
So details, share price data, or to request that a form be sent far as the directors are aware, the close company to their registered address.
provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Corporation.
Share dealing Computershare Investor Services PLC offers shareholders Capital gains tax a share dealing service via the internet or by telephone, For shareholders who have purchased their shares details of which are as follows: through a share savings scheme on a monthly basis and Internet www.
com sharedealingcentre who wish to apply HMRCs optional basis of valuing holdings as if they had all been purchased in July, Telephone 0870 703 0084 guidance notes have been prepared by the AIC and are Commission for the internet service is 1% with a minimum available from the company secretary on request.
charge of 30 and 1% for the telephone service, plus 35.
Company share information The service is available only to those shareholders who Information about the Corporation can be found on its hold their shares on the register i. e. it is not available to web site http: www.
The market price of those who hold their shares via a nominee.
its ordinary shares is also published daily in a number Shareholders using the internet service will need their of newspapers.
Shareholder Reference Number SRN and post code to complete their trade.
The SRN can be found printed on Individual savings account ISA your proxy card.
For investors seeking a tax efficient method of investing in the shares of the Corporation.
The Plan Manager is The share dealing service is controlled and operated by National Westminster Bank Plc and can be contacted at: Computershare Investor Services PLC and the Corporation is not responsible or liable for anything The Manager arising from a shareholders decision to use the service.
NatWest ISA Office The Corporation is not acting as an introducer for the Trinity Quay share dealing service and receives no financial benefit, Bristol BS2 0PT either from making shareholders aware of the service or Tel No: 0845 601 5600 from any share deals conducted by shareholders who use the service.
References to services provided by members of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group have been approved by National Westminster Bank Plc, which is authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
