80 Notice of annual general meeting Notice of annual general meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 125th annual general meeting of the Corporation will be held on 14 April 2015 at 11.00am at the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive the report of the directors, the strategic report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
To receive and approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
To declare a final dividend of 11.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
To re-elect Caroline Banszky as a director.
To re-elect Christopher Smith as a director.
To re-elect Robert Laing as a director.
To re-elect Mark Bridgeman as a director.
To re-appoint BDO LLP as auditors of the Corporation to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid and to authorise the audit committee to determine their remuneration.
General authority to allot shares THAT: a the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise for the period ending on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting, all the powers of the Corporation to allot shares in the Corporation or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Corporation up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of 295,787: b the Corporation may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might require the making of allotments of equity securities or relevant securities as the case may be after the expiry of such period.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: 10.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights THAT: a in exercise of the authority given to the directors by resolution 9 above, the directors be empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Corporation for the period ending on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting wholly for cash generally up to an aggregate nominal amount of 295,787 as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided always that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital shall be issued on a non preemptive basis within any three year period: b the Corporation may during such period make offers or agreements which would or might require the making of allotments of equity securities or relevant securities as the case may be after the expiry of such period.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
General authority to buy back shares THAT: the Corporation be and is generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with sections 693 and 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of any of its issued ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Corporation, in such manner and upon such terms as the directors of the Corporation may from time to time determine, PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT: a the maximum number hereby authorised to be purchased shall be limited to 17,735,403 shares, or if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Corporations issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the Corporations next annual general meeting provided that a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
Authority to convene a general meeting notice THAT: a general meeting of the Corporation, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Amendment to the Corporations articles of association THAT: existing Article 113 be deleted in entirety and replaced by a new Article 113 as follows: Dividend distribution out of capital profits is permitted.
Dividends shall be paid out of profits available for distribution or out of capital profits as the case may be under the provisions of the Statutes.
Any surplus over the book value derived from the sale or realisation of any capital asset and any other sums representing capital profits within the meaning of Section 832 of the Act or other accretions to capital assets, including in particular any sums resulting from the writing up of the book values of any capital assets, shall be available for dividend or any other distribution within the meaning ascribed thereto by Section 829 of the Act otherwise than by way of the redemption or purchase of any of the Companys own shares in accordance with Section 687 or 690.
By order of the board Registered office: Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited Fifth Floor Secretary 100 Wood Street 26 February 2015 London EC2V 7EX Registered No.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
