| 266 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY Glossary Longevity Overlay assets Risk associated with increasing life expectancy trends Overlay assets are derivative assets that are managed among policyholders and pensioners.
alongside the physical assets held by LGIM.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, inflation swaps, Mortality rate equity futures and options.
These are typically used Rate of death, influenced by age, gender and health, to hedge risks associated with pension scheme assets used in pricing and calculating liabilities for future during the derisking stage of the pension life cycle.
policyholders of life and annuity products, which contain mortality risks.
Platform Online services used by intermediaries and consumers Net cash generation to view and administer their investment portfolios.
Net cash generation is defined as operational cash Platforms usually provide facilities for buying and generation less new business strain.
selling investments including, in the UK products such as Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested New business strain Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance and for The impact of writing new business on the regulatory viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset position, including the cost of acquiring new business allocation and risk exposure.
and the setting up of regulatory reserves.
Present value of new business premiums PVNBP Open architecture The industry measure used to determine the value Where a company offers investment products from of new business.
It is calculated as 100% of single a range of other companies in addition to its own premiums plus the expected present value of new products.
This gives customers a wider choice of regular premiums.
funds to invest in and access to a larger pool of money management professionals.
Cofunds is an open Purchased interest in long term business PILTB architecture platform.
An estimate of the future profits that will emerge over the remaining term of life and pensions policies Operating profit that have been acquired via a business combination.
Operating profit measures the pre-tax result excluding the impact of investment volatility, economic assumption Retail distribution review RDR changes and exceptional items.
Operating profit RDR is part of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys therefore reflects longer term economic assumptions agenda of customer protection.
RDR aimed to drive and changes in insurance risks such as mortality and structural change throughout the retail investments longevity for the groups insurance business and industry in order to ensure consumers can have shareholder funds, except for LGA which excludes confidence in their retirement and investment planning.
unrealised investment returns to align with the liability measurement under US GAAP.
Variances between Return on equity ROE actual and smoothed assumptions are reported below ROE measures the return earned by shareholders operating profit.
Exceptional income and expenses on shareholder capital retained within the business.
which arise outside the normal course of business in the ROE is calculated as IFRS profit after tax divided by period, such as merger and acquisition, start-up and average IFRS shareholders funds.
closure costs, are excluded from operating profit.
Risk appetite Operational cash generation The aggregate level and types of risk a company Operational cash generation is the expected release is willing to assume in its exposures and business from in-force business for the UK non profit LGAS and activities in order to achieve its business objectives.
LGR businesses, the shareholders share of bonuses on with-profits business, the post-tax operating profit on Single premiums other UK businesses, including an expected investment Single premiums arise on the sale of new contracts return on LGC invested assets, and dividends remitted where the terms of the policy do not anticipate from our international businesses.
more than one premium being paid over its lifetime, such as in individual and bulk annuity deals.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 267 Solvency II An EU-wide regulatory regime which intends to align solvency capital to an insurers risk profile.
Solvency II is scheduled to be implemented on 1 January 2016.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
Value in force VIF The value of in-force business is the present value of expected future shareholder profits less the present value cost of holding capital required to support the in-force business.
With-profits funds Individually identifiable portfolios where policyholders have a contractual right to receive additional benefits based on factors such as the performance of a pool of assets held within the fund, as a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
An insurer may either have discretion as to the timing of the allocation of those benefits to participating policyholders or may have discretion as to the timing and the amount of the additional benefits.
Yield A measure of the income received from an investment compared to the price paid for the investment.
It is usually expressed as a percentage.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 268 OTHER INFORMATION Notes LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Sarahs story This is just one story of how our decisions are felt by people and what they want for their lives.
Sarah moved into new student accommodation at the University of Southampton in September 2014.
She was guaranteed this place in halls of residence safe, managed buildings where she made friends and established a stable start to her years of study.
This is part of our 15 billion direct investment programme.
com Registered office: One Coleman Street, London EC2R 5AA T 020 3124 2000 F 020 3124 2500 Legal & General Group Plc is a holding company, subsidiary undertakings of which are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and or Prudential Regulation Authority, as appropriate.
com Designed and produced by Addison Group addison-group.
net Printed on Amadeus 50% Recycled Silk and Amadeus 100% Recycled Offset papers.
Both papers are independently certified according to the rules of the Forestry Stewardship Council FSC.
Both manufacturing mills hold the ISO14001 environmental certification and the EU Eco-label EMAS.
