| 262 OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual general meeting Share fraud warning The 2015 annual general meeting AGM will be held Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics on Thursday, 21 May 2015 at 11am at The Honourable to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, EC1Y 2BQ.
The AGM provides Legal & General with the or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an opportunity to meet its shareholders.
The Board regards upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably directly with private investors.
The Notice of Meeting lose your money.
and all other details for the AGM are available at www.
How to avoid share fraud Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are Dividend information unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer Dividend per share to buy or sell shares.
This year the directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 8.35p per share.
If you add this Do not get into a conversation, note the name of to your interim dividend of 2.90p per share, the total the person and firm contacting you and then end dividend recommended for 2014 will be 11.25p per share the call.
The key dates for the payment of dividends are set out in the important dates section Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Dividend payments Legal & General is keen to encourage all its shareholders Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an to have their dividends paid directly into a bank or authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
If you would like more details or a dividend mandate form, please contact our registrar.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register Details of how to contact the registrar can be found if you want to call it back.
on the opposite page and on our website.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not Dividend reinvestment plan have contact details on the Register or you are told The Legal & General dividend reinvestment plan DRIP they are out of date.
enables shareholders to use their cash dividends to purchase Legal & General Group Plc shares.
If you Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at would like more details, please contact our registrar.
Communications Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an Internet unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Information about the company, including details Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services of the current share price, is available on the website, Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and Investor relations professional advice before you hand over any money.
Private investors should contact the registrar with any queries.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk Institutional investors can contact the investor relations scams, where you can find out more about team by email: investor.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 263 Financial reports together with the appropriate share transfer form.
The companys financial reports are available on the The booklet and the share transfer form are also website.
The Annual Report and Accounts are sent available in the Investors section of the website.
to those shareholders who have elected to receive paper copies.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect Share portal to receive notification by email by registering on Share portal allows you to view your Legal & General www.
If you receive more than shareholding on the internet.
Registering is easy: simply one copy of our communications, it could be because log on to www.
com and follow the you have more than one record on the share register.
You will need your Shareholder Investor To avoid duplicate mailings, please contact the registrar, Code, which can be found on your share certificate, who can arrange for your accounts to be amalgamated.
dividend statement or proxy form.
If you have any queries, please call the shareholder helpline.
Registrar You can contact our registrar: Share dealing service A quick and easy share dealing service is provided by By post: Capita Asset Services, The Registry, Capita Share Dealing Services to sell or buy shares in 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Legal & General and any other leading UK companies.
Further information is available online at By telephone: 0871 402 3341.
If calling from outside www.
General information Calls to this number cost 10p per minute plus Capital gains tax: For the purpose of calculating UK network extras.
Lines are open 9am to 5.30pm, capital gains tax, the market value on 31 March 1982 Monday to Friday.
of each share was 7.996p, after adjusting for the 1986 capitalisation issue and the 1996 and 1999 sub-divisions, By email: landgshares@capita.
co. uk but not reflecting any rights taken up under the 2002 rights issue.
The registrar also provides the following services: Close company provisions: The company is not a Corporate sponsored nominee close company within the terms of the Corporation The corporate sponsored nominee allows you to hold Tax Act 2010. shares in Legal & General without the need for a share certificate and enables you to benefit from shorter market Registered office: One Coleman Street, London settlement periods.
Registered in England and Wales, Legal & General shares in a nominee holding registered No.
01417162. in the name of Capita IRG Trustees Nominees Limited.
To join or obtain further information contact the registrar.
Shareholder offer line: For details of shareholder They will send you a booklet, outlining the terms offers on Legal & General products call 0500 65 5555. and conditions under which your shares will be held, Important Dates: 23 April 2015 Ex-dividend date final dividend 15 May 2015 Last day for DRIP elections 21 May 2015 Annual General Meeting 4 June 2015 Payment of final dividend for 2014 to members registered on 24 April 2015 5 August 2015 Half year results 2015 13 August 2015 Ex-dividend date interim dividend 17 September 2015 Payment of interim dividend for 2015 to members registered on 14 August 2015 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 264 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY Glossary Ad valorem fees Defined contribution pension scheme Ongoing management fees earned on assets under A type of pension plan where the pension benefits management, overlay assets and advisory assets as at retirement are determined by agreed levels of defined below.
contributions paid into the fund by the member and employer.
They provide benefits based upon the money Advisory assets held in each individuals plan specifically on behalf of These are assets on which Global Index Advisors each member.
The amount in each plan at retirement GIA provide advisory services.
Advisory assets are will depend upon the investment returns achieved beneficially owned by GIAs clients and all investment and on the member and employer contributions.
decisions pertaining to these assets are also made by the clients.
These are different from Assets under Derivatives Management AUM defined below.
Derivatives are not a separate asset class but are contracts usually giving a commitment or right to buy Annual premium equivalent APE or sell assets on specified conditions, for example on A standardised measure of the volume of new life a set date in the future and at a set price.
The value insurance business written.
It is calculated as the sum of of a derivative contract can vary.
Derivatives can annualised new recurring premiums and 10% of the new generally be used with the aim of enhancing the overall single premiums written in an annual reporting period.
investment returns of a fund by taking on an increased risk, or they can be used with the aim of reducing the Annuity amount of risk to which a fund is exposed.
A regular payment from an insurance company made for an agreed period of time usually up to the death of Direct investments the recipient in return for either a cash lump sum or a Direct investments constitute an agreement with another series of premiums which the policyholder has paid to party and represent an exposure to untraded and often the insurance company during their working lifetime.
They can include physical assets, bilateral loans and private equity but exclude Assets under management AUM hedge funds.
The total amount of money investors have trusted to our fund managers to invest across our investment products Dividend cover i. e. these are funds which are actively managed by our Dividend cover measures how many times over the fund managers on behalf of investors.
net cash generated in the year could have paid the full year dividend.
For example, if the dividend cover is 3, Bulk purchase annuity BPA this means that the net cash generation was three Bulk annuities are bought by entities that run final salary times the amount of dividend paid out.
pension schemes to reduce their responsibilities by closing the schemes to new members and passing the Earnings per share EPS assets and obligations to insurance providers.
EPS is a common financial metric which can be used to measure the profitability and strength of a company over Credit rating time.
It is the total shareholder profit after tax divided by A measure of the ability of an individual, organisation or the number of shares outstanding.
EPS uses a weighted country to repay debt.
The highest rating is usually AAA, average number of shares outstanding during the year.
and the lowest D. Ratings are usually issued by a credit rating agency e. g. Moodys or Standard & Poors or Economic capital surplus and coverage credit bureau.
Economic capital is the capital that an insurer holds internally as a result of its own assessment of risk.
Defined benefit pension scheme It differs from regulatory capital, which is determined A type of pension plan in which an employer sponsor by regulators.
It represents an estimate of the amount promises a specified monthly benefit on retirement that of economic losses an insurer could withstand and still is predetermined by a formula based on the employees remain solvent with a target level of confidence over earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than a specified time horizon.
Economic capital surplus depending directly on individual investment returns.
represents group available economic capital less the group economic capital requirement, pre-accrual for proposed dividend.
Economic capital coverage is calculated as the group available economic capital divided by the group economic capital requirement.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 265 Employee engagement index Insurance groups directive IGD surplus and coverage The Employee engagement index measures the extent The IGD surplus is a regulatory measure which calculates to which employees are committed to the goals of surplus capital within the group in accordance with the Legal & General and are motivated to contribute to the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
IGD surplus is defined overall success of the company, whilst at the same time as group regulatory capital less the group regulatory working with their manager to enhance their own sense capital requirement, after accrual for proposed dividends.
of development and well being.
Surplus capital held within Societys Long Term Fund cannot be included in the IGD definition of capital European embedded value EEV employed.
IGD coverage is calculated as the group The Embedded Value EV of a life insurance company regulatory capital divided by the group regulatory is the value to equity shareholders of the net assets capital requirement.
and expected future profits of the company on existing business.
The European Embedded Value EEV is International financial reporting standards IFRS a variation of EV which allows for a more formalised These are accounting guidelines and rules that method of choosing the parameters and performing companies and organisations follow when completing the calculations to enable greater transparency financial statements.
They are designed to enable and accountability.
comparable reporting between companies, and they are the standards that all publicly listed groups in the European embedded value operating profit European Union EU are required to use.
EEV operating profit Legal & General provides supplementary financial IFRS profit before tax PBT statements prepared on the European Embedded Value PBT measures profit attributable to shareholders EEV basis for long term insurance contracts.
Operating incorporating actual investment returns experienced profit on the EEV basis reports the change in embedded during the year but before the payment of tax.
value in a period, but excludes fluctuations from assumed longer term investment return.
Key performance indicators KPIS These are measures by which the development, European embedded value per share EEV per share performance or position of the business can be EEV per share is used to measure value creation over measured effectively.
The Group Board reviews the time.
It is the groups EEV including LGIM, divided by KPIs annually and updates them where appropriate.
the closing number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
Full year dividend Full year dividend is the total dividend per share declared LGAS for the year including interim dividend but excluding, Legal & General Assurance Society division.
where appropriate, any special dividend.
LGC Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP Legal & General Capital.
These are a widely accepted collection of guidelines and principles, established by accounting standard LGIM setters and used by the accounting community to Legal & General Investment Management.
LGR Gross written premiums GWP Legal & General Retirement.
GWP is an industry measure of the life insurance premiums due and the general insurance premiums Liability driven investment LDI underwritten in the reporting period, before any A form of investing in which the main goal is to gain deductions for reinsurance.
sufficient assets to meet all liabilities, both current and future.
This form of investing is most prominent in final Index tracker passive fund salary pension plans, whose liabilities can often reach Index tracker funds invest in most or all of the same into billions of pounds for the largest of plans.
shares, and in a similar proportion, as the index they are tracking, for example the FTSE 100 index.
Index tracker funds aim to produce a return in line with a particular market or sector, for example, Europe or technology.
They are also sometimes known as tracker funds.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
