STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Statement of directors responsibilities 101 Statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue and Company financial statements in accordance with International to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the 54-55 of this Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that period.
and belief: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and explained in the financial statements: and they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, taken as a prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
By Order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Lisa Condron Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Group Company Secretary of the Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the 15 May 2014 prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 2-53.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 48-53.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 114-17.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term funding at 31 March 2014 was 1,649 million which is committed until July 2016 or beyond 2013: 1,650 million, 1,400 million of which was committed until December 2014 or beyond, described further in the Financial Review on pages 38-43.
102 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Report on the financial statements Overview of our audit approach Our opinion Materiality In our opinion: We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the The financial statements, defined below, give a true and fair view of the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
2014 and of the Groups profit and of the Groups and Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Based on our professional judgment, we determined overall materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 22.1 million, being five per cent The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of profit before tax, acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items.
We accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs chose this benchmark because we believe it is a reasonable representation of as adopted by the European Union: the underlying performance of the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the for qualitative reasons.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview of the scope of our audit This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of When establishing the scope of our audit we considered the internal this report.
organisation of the Group and determined a scope of audit work that optimised the coverage of risks, balances and transactions.
What we have audited The Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements We scoped our audit based on the Groups legal entity structure.
Our work the financial statements, which are prepared by London Stock Exchange focused primarily on those entities which in our view required an audit of Group LSEG plc, comprise: their complete financial information due to their size and risk characteristics.
the Group and Parent Company balance sheet as at 31 March 2014: This work included an audit of those entities that comprise all, or substantially all, of the Capital Markets, Post Trade Services, Information Services and the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive income LCH.
Clearnet businesses which together constituted 97 per cent of the for the year then ended: Group profit before tax, acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items.
the Group and Parent Company statements of changes in equity and In addition we carried out specific audit procedures on certain financial statements of cash flows for the year then ended: and statement line items and performed work on the consolidation process.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of statements as a whole.
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, the type of work that needed to be performed at the legal entities by us, as regards the Parent Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions by component auditors from another PwC network firm and one other of the Companies Act 2006. firm operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to What an audit of financial statements involves have in the audit work at those legal entities to be able to conclude whether We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Areas of particular audit focus from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number of an assessment of: subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and estimates that involved making judgments and considering future events Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by and adequately disclosed: assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other the overall presentation of the financial statements.
auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report to identify material combination of both.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 67-68.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc 103 How the scope of our audit addressed How the scope of our audit addressed Area of focus the area of focus Area of focus the area of focus Goodwill impairment We evaluated the Directors forecast of future cash Purchase Price We tested the Directors purchase price allocation assessment flows including comparing them to the latest Board Allocation on exercise including evaluating the reasonableness approved budgets and considering past acquisition of of the assumptions used, testing the input data We focused on this performance against budget.
Clearnet and re-performing the model calculations.
As part area because the integrity of the model and assessed how both of this work we: determination of internal and external drivers of performance were We focused on this area Met with the third party valuers who carried whether or not incorporated into the projections.
In particular because judgement is out the Directors purchase price allocation the carrying value we challenged: required to allocate the exercise to understand the methodology used of goodwill is The Directors key assumptions for short and price paid between the and also their view on the key sensitivities and supportable involved long term revenue growth rates by comparing different intangible judgments taken: significant judgements them to economic and industry forecasts: and assets acquired.
Assessed the methodology used including about the future The discount rate used by independently considering valuation best practice relevant performance of the recalculating the cost of capital.
Clearnet exercise: and business, as set out in Challenged the assumptions used, including note 13 to the Group To direct our testing to the areas of highest risk we revenue growth, operating margin, customer financial statements.
performed sensitivity analysis, including assessing attrition and discount rates, by comparing the impact of reasonably possible changes in them with historical performance and discount rates, revenues and operating margins considering how external performance on the goodwill carrying value.
drivers were incorporated into the projections.
We also evaluated the adequacy of disclosures We also evaluated the appropriateness of the made in note 13 to the Group financial statements.
disclosures made in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
Consolidation of We read the shareholder agreements and assessed Central Counterparty In respect of the Italian clearing business, LCH.
Clearnet the nature of the interactions between LSEG, Clearing CCP assets we tested the IT general computer controls and LCH.
Clearnet and other non-controlling interests, and liabilities automated controls for clearing systems, as well We focused on this area including Board balance, rights of veto, and rights as the manual controls over processing activities.
because the governance to appoint and remove Directors.
We focused on this We also tested the reconciliations between the and management of area because of the operational systems and the financial records and LCH.
Clearnet is subject We also evaluated how the Group demonstrated magnitude of the obtained external confirmations for a sample of to complex shareholder its ability to exercise control over LCH.
Clearnet balance in the overall CCP balances at the year end and all cash balances agreements and in practice, for example in connection with key context of the Group.
in relation to default funds.
therefore judgement is governance decisions such as the setting of Specifically we focused required to determine strategy, appointment of the CEO, approval of on the completeness, In respect of the UK clearing business, we tested whether the Group remuneration of senior management and changes valuation and existence the IT general computer controls and automated exercises control over in material contracts.
of the CCP assets and controls for clearing systems, as well as the manual LCH.
liabilities recognised controls over processing activities.
We also tested on the Group the reconciliations between the operational balance sheet.
systems and the financial records.
104 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Going Concern How the scope of our audit addressed Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, Area of focus the area of focus set out on page 101, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report Risk of fraud in For the Groups main Capital Markets secondary having performed our review.
revenue recognition businesses we tested the accuracy of the capital markets secondary revenue by rebuilding the As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that ISAs UK & Ireland pricing model and independently recalculating it is appropriate to prepare the Groups and Parent Companys financial presume there is a risk the total revenue using the base trade data.
statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern of fraud in revenue Additional testing of revenue included: basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have adequate resources recognition as a result Testing of the IT general controls for revenue to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at of the potential for systems and agreeing output from revenue least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part management bias systems to financial ledgers of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern in order to achieve Tracing full populations of revenue postings basis is appropriate.
through to cash or receivables and investigating unusual items However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these We focused on the Testing compliance with complex contractual statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys accuracy of Capital agreements for a sample of Information ability to continue as a going concern.
Markets secondary Services revenue postings revenue and the Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 occurrence of In our opinion: Information Services the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report revenue because for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is of the higher risk consistent with the financial statements: and posed by complex the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been tariff structures.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Risk of management We tested journal entries, including targeting override of internal our testing at higher risk journals by stratifying controls the population by risk characteristics.
ISAs UK & Ireland We also tested key reconciliations for bank, require that we intercompany and other balance sheet accounts.
consider this and hence it is an area that We assessed the overall control environment receives heightened of the Group and interviewed senior management, focus on every audit Groups legal, risk, compliance and internal conducted under these audit functions.
We understood the key trigger points for incentive payments to senior management and examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by Directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc 105 Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Adequacy of accounting records and information and Our responsibilities and those of the Directors explanations received As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, on page 101, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group in our opinion: and Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they we have not received all the information and explanations we require for give a true and fair view.
our audit: or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and Parent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing not visited by us: or Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the accounting records and returns.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Directors remuneration come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We Alison Morris have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate London Governance Statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with 15 May 2014 nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 101 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On pages 67 and 68, as required by C. 3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
