110 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies IAS19R, Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared IFRS 13, Fair value measurement: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed Comprehensive Income: and by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 IFRS various Annual improvements 2012 and 2013. applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on these The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated consolidated financial statements.
financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The restatement relating to IAS19R resulted in reclassification of net expenses with an immaterial impact to profit for the financial period.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRIC on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
since the last Annual Report, but have not been adopted either because they were not endorsed by the European Union EU at 31 March 2014 or they are The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen to early adopt.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, amendments and of its results by presenting profit for the year before amortisation of purchased interpretations is still under review, but the Group does not expect any of these intangible assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit measure used changes to have a material impact on the results or the net assets of the Group: to calculate adjusted earnings per share and is considered to be the most International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying, recurring cash earnings IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and amendments 1 January 2013 and is the primary measure of performance monitored by the Groups Executive IFRS 11, Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 Committee.
Profit before acquisition amortisation and non-recurring items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of the income statement.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities and amendments 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Revised 2011, Separate financial statements Consolidation and amendments 1 January 2013 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements IAS 28 Revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures 1 January 2013 of the Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company balances and Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014 transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the Amendment to IAS 36, Impairment of assets on recoverable results of associates.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in amount disclosures 1 January 2014 the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
As permitted Amendment to IAS 39 on novation of derivatives by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys income statement and hedge accounting 1 January 2014 has not been included in these financial statements.
The Companys income IFRIC 21, Levies 1 January 2014 for the year is disclosed within the statement of changes in equity.
Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits on defined benefit plans 1 July 2014 Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method.
IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 The Groups investments in associates are initially recognised at cost, IFRS 9, Financial instruments and amendments 1 January 2018 and its share of profits or losses after tax from associates is included in the consolidated income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements Accounting policies are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment in the Groups Income Statement balance sheet.
The financial statements of associates are used by the Group to Revenue apply the equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable the Groups share of the results of operations of the associates.
A company is and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the considered an associate where the Group has a significant influence.
normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, The sources of revenue are: at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is acquiree.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates: policies into line with those of the Group.
b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission to trading: The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests c Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and net through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests settlement fees, are recognised on a transaction by transaction basis in are recognised in equity.
accordance with the Groups fee scales: Investments in subsidiaries shares, loans and other contributions are d Royalties revenue is recognised at the date at which they are earned or recognised at cost.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate measurable with certainty: the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the e IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue Companys financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
is recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by the customer, in other circumstances revenue is recognised on Recent accounting developments provision of contracted services: The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and have f IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, been adopted in these financial statements: integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a Amendments to IFRS 1, First time adoption exemption for severe percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is determined hyperinflation and removal of fixed dates: by reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures disclosures estimated costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of on transfers of financial assets and offsetting financial assets and liabilities: total services to be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the period in which they are identified: STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 111 g Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned: and net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to h Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of is provided.
Borsa Italiana group defers some of the income received or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised from cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
results in revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when Finance income and expense incremental volume targets are achieved.
Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect The main source of revenue are through fees.
the agreed market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken during the financial year.
Non-recurring items Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities and the non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items on the face of the income payments and cash management transactions and services provided by the statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these Groups banks are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility items together with amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give arrangement fees are capitalised and then amortised back to the income an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
statement over the term of the facility subject to protected utilisation.
If a facility is deemed unlikely to be drawn over its life, the arrangement fees Pension costs will be charged immediately to the income statement.
Fees and charges The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension are included within other finance costs.
For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense.
Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement The interest cost and expected return on plan assets used in the previous in the market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
version of IAS 19 are replaced with a net-interest amount under IAS 19 Revised 2011, which is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net Balance Sheet defined benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting period.
Property, plant and equipment Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and expected returns at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
on assets are recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are stated at cost sheet comprises the difference between the present value of pension and are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over the obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined contribution estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are as follows: schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred a Freehold buildings 33 to 50 years: Share based compensation The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation b Fixed plant three to 20 years: and plans for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by c Plant and equipment three to 15 years.
the fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated to residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful Foreign currencies economic life of the asset.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency Leases transactions are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightyear-end rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign line basis.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or loss.
Exceptions to this are substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as where the non-monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
presentation currency as follows: Plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and fair value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate: Due to the immaterial value of finance leases within the Group, they are not b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income disclosed separately within the accounts.
statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and Intangible assets c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of component of equity.
consideration paid over the fair value of the Groups share of net identifiable assets purchased and is allocated on a cash generating unit basis.
It is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
112 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and c Loans and receivables liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, customer relationships, licences and software intellectual property, all of which are recorded as intangible Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These assets are amortised determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives, which are as follows: included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current a Customer and supplier relationships two to 25 years material assets assets.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash are amortised over a life exceeding 15 years : and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
b Brands 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life of Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty 25 years : and CCP business c Software licenses and intellectual property two to 25 years the majority Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to subsidiaries that of material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding five years.
perform the CCP clearing business.
The activities include clearing of financial derivatives, equities and bond transactions on regulated markets.
Third party software costs for the development and implementation of systems The Group enters into a contractual arrangement in respect of each side which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised and amortised of the transaction, bears the risk associated with counterparties failing over their estimated useful economic lives of three to five years.
to honour their obligations and, in the event of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, is required itself to complete the delivery.
Accordingly, the Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be Group must record an asset and a liability on its balance sheet in respect of reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially each of the sale and purchase sides of each transaction.
However, except in feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient respect of failed transactions the Group as a CCP clearer does not bear any resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets price risk and the value of the sale and purchase side of each transaction are recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third are the same: consequently, the principal CCP asset and liability amounts party expenses, and amortised over their useful economic lives of three years.
The Group has adopted the settlement date as the reference date for recognising financial assets.
Current and deferred taxation The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net treasury enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of our risk management where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
process, and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
This amount has been shown separately on the face of the income statement to distinguish this income Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences stream from revenues arising from the Groups other activities and provides the arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying reader with a greater understanding of the operating activities of the Group.
amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using tax rates that are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported expected to apply when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis against future taxable profits.
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Classification of financial assets Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include the following: Financial assets excluding clearing business The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, and are subsequently acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets re-measured on the basis of the market price of each derivative instrument at initial recognition: at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP clearer are matched, the same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss no net fair value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions held for liquidity purposes, they are initially recognised at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members using the statement.
These assets are financial instruments not designated as hedges.
Groups clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These transactions are initially b Available-for-sale financial assets recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated over the duration of the contract Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, the coupon accrued in the period and the difference between the spot and associates and subsidiaries are designated as available-for-sale and are forward prices.
Since the asset and liability positions for repos are matched, recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with changes the same amount is recorded for both assets and liabilities and no gain or loss in fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair value is not reliably is recorded in the income statement.
measurable, the investment is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Assets such as shares in clearing and payment transmission operations c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members and default funds and long term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available for sale.
These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the activities of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They mainly represent amounts to be received or paid in relation to initial and variation margins, option premiums, securities as collateral and default fund contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current value.
Default funds absorb any losses incurred by the Group in the event of clearing members default where margin collateral is insufficient to cover the management and close out of the positions of the defaulting members.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 113 d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value, These represent quoted equity and bond securities which have already which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision for impairment.
withdrawn from the settlement system but have not yet delivered to the A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is intermediaries who have bought them and securities traded but not yet objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due settled as part of the CCP function.
These are initially recognised at fair value according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial and subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market price of difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy each security.
The difference between the settlement price of each security or will be subject to a financial reorganisation or default on, or be delinquent at trade date and the market price of that security at the period end is on, its payment obligations are considered indicators that the trade receivable recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
e Held to maturity The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the and fixed maturities which the Group has the intention and ability to hold to income statement.
After initial measurement held to maturity financial investments are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate less Cash and cash equivalents impairment.
The amortisation of any premium or discount is included in the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, term deposits and interest income.
investments in money market funds and other instruments and structures that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to f Cash and cash equivalents restricted insignificant risk of changes in value.
These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial and Assets held for sale variation margins and default fund contributions as collateral against default Assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are initially be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Borrowings Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
the effective interest rate method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Any gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Share capital The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees and are held at and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is deducted from forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
Financial risk management The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian Companies The Group seeks to protect its financial performance from exposure to capital, by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
In order to qualify credit, sovereign, liquidity and market including foreign exchange, fair value for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria as regards and cash flow interest rate risks.
documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability of measurement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the Financial risk management is not speculative.
It is performed at a Group relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units transactions.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and manage regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that at LCH.
Clearnet Group and CC&G that operate in accordance with local the hedge continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be regulation and under locally approved risk and investment policies.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement The Financial Risk Committee FRC, a sub-Committee of the Executive within finance costs.
Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement Committee, a sub-Committee of the FRC which is also chaired by the in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging foreign exchange, interest rates, credit risks and the investment of excess instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that Both Committees ensure that treasury and risk operations are performed time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures and ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction regular updates, on a range of key criteria as well as new developments, is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported are provided through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework to the in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
See Principal Risk and Uncertainties, pages 48-53, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
114 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and its capital base comprises The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide equity capital and debt capital.
superior returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be However, the Group recognises the risk that its entities available at renewal.
Maintaining the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management consideration.
whether regulated or unregulated may not maintain sufficient capital to meet commercial requirements The Group can manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or or they may invest in projects that fail to generate a increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular return that is value enhancing.
basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
Regulated entities continuously monitor compliance with the capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms The Group incorporates a number of regulated entities of reference of the FRC includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management within its structure.
It considers that increases in the Policy seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust regulatory capital requirements of those companies evaluation of the impact of new investments by the Group on its capital position.
and a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own performance or financial market conditions are the As at 31 March 2014, 803.6 million of cash and cash equivalents was held to meet a number of regulatory principal risks to managing its capital.
and operational requirements across the Groups regulated entities.
This amount materially increased during the year as a result of the inclusion of LCH.
Clearnet Groups total cash and cash equivalents, in addition to the existing 200 million generally set aside by other LSEG operations.
We anticipate that Group companies cash and cash equivalents are sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks, including requirements under EMIR.
The level of cash set aside by the Group for these purposes remains subject to on-going review with regulators in Europe and the US.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and meet the Groups objective of maintaining an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items against a target range of one to two times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies including gross debt to EBITDA and EBITDA coverage of interest expense in considering increases to its borrowings.
As at 31 March 2014 net leverage was 1.9 times 2013: 1.2 times, towards the top end of the Groups target range but having reduced during the year following the debt funding of the majority acquisition of LCH.
Clearnet Group and its subsequent capital raise in May 2013.
The Group is in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and debt service and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 115 Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach In their roles as central counterparty CCP clearers CCPs to financial market participants, the Groups CCPs To address the market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards guarantee final settlement of transactions acting as against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical buyer towards each seller and as seller towards each and organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least daily, to cover buyer.
They manage substantial credit risks as part the exposures and theoretical costs which the CCP would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of their operations including unmatched risk positions of the members default.
Margins are calculated using established international risk models and are debited from that might arise from the default of a party to a cleared participants accounts through central bank accounts and via commercial bank payment systems.
For more information see Principal Risk of cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is re-valued daily.
As at 31 March 2014, the total aggregate and Uncertainties, pages 48-53. margin liability of clearing members amounted to 68.3 billion, against which the Group had received 35.8 billion in cash and 34.4 billion in non-cash securities.
The maximum margin liability during the year was 77.2 billion.
Notwithstanding revised regulations in Europe that require CCPs to invest predominantly in secured Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the markets in instruments or structures such as reverse repos, the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis of the results CC&G and the LCH.
Clearnet Group CCPs will continue of periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
As at 31 March 2014, the total of to be able to invest up to five per cent of their margin clearing member contributions to the default funds amounted to 9.0 billion in aggregate across the Groups CCPs.
and default fund cash unsecured.
Through this The maximum amount during the year was 9.1 billion.
Furthermore, in accordance with recent regulatory changes, un-secured investment by its CCPs as well as by each of the Groups CCPs has reinforced its capital position to meet the more stringent requirements, including certain other operations observing agreed investment holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework policy limits, the Group will continue to face the risk in the event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
of direct loss from a deterioration or failure of one or more of its unsecured deposit counterparties.
Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory body including through direct investments Concentration risk may arise through having large, in highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and connected individual exposures and significant exposures bi-lateral reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral which are subject to a haircut to groups of counterparties whose likelihood of default is on their market value and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash driven by common underlying factors.
This is a particular that is invested unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are focus of the investment approach at the Groups CCPs.
applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
The investment portfolio at 31 March 2014 totalled 47.4 billion in aggregate, of which a weighted average 99.7 per cent was invested securely with an overall More broadly, the Groups credit risk relates to its maturity of 87 days, including material amounts invested over a very short timeframe to support liquidity needs.
customers and counterparties being unable to meet their The maximum portfolio size during the year was 54.1 billion.
Associated liquidity risks are considered in the obligations to the Group either in part or in full, including: investment mix and discussed further below.
customer receivables repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and settlement of derivative financial instruments uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 March 2014 was 10.4 per cent of the total investment portfolio to the French Government including cash held at Banque fide France.
Group Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers financial position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so concentration risk on its receivables is deemed as low.
Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting the exposure to up to 50 million for 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent through to a maximum 25 million overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions are undertaken with well-capitalised counterparties, authorised by policy, to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
116 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Sovereign risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress amongst sovereigns through market concerns Specific risk frameworks manage sovereign risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral and over the levels of government debt and the ability of all clearing members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits certain governments to service their debts over time, and counterparty and clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial could have adverse effects particularly on the Groups market indicators, to ensure the Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign CCPs, potentially impacting cleared products, margin risk and respond quickly to anticipated changes.
Risk Committees maintain an on-going watch over these risks collateral, investments, the clearing membership and and the associated policy frameworks to protect the Group against potentially severe market volatility in the the financial industry as a whole.
The Group has material investments of more than 1 billion in the following sovereigns as at 31 March 2014: Sovereign Treasury Exposures Group Aggregate billion France 4.9 Italy 4.5 USA 3.9 Belgium 2.2 Germany 1.5 UK 1.0 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity risk Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not significantly impacted to the extent that they are unable to meet their daily by seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations as they payment obligations.
fall due and to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory constraints impacting the Groups CCPs and certain other regulated entities, In addition, the Groups CCPs and certain other subsidiary funds can generally be lent across the Group or remitted through dividend payments and this is an important companies are required to maintain a level of liquidity component of the Group Treasury cash management policy and approach.
consistent with regulatory requirements to ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets and Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect to maintain operations in the event of a single or multiple assumptions about more difficult market conditions.
market stress event or member failure.
This includes the potential requirement to liquidate the position of Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending a clearing member under a default scenario including group to cover its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the covering the associated losses and the settlement next 24 months.
The financial strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the year new, obligations of the defaulting member.
committed, revolving three and five year credit facilities totalling 700 million were arranged by LSEG to underpin the Groups financial flexibility.
The new facilities extend the Groups average drawn debt maturity The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment profile to just under 5 years and underpin facility headroom over the medium term: the next scheduled debt or settlement bank could fail or that its systems maturity is in July 2016.
At 31 March 2014, 422 million of the Groups facilities were unutilised.
encounter operational issues, creating liquidity pressures and the risk of possible defaults on payment The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access or receivable obligations.
to central bank refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to arrange appropriate levels of back The Group uses third party custodians to hold securities up liquidity to underpin the dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, ensuring that the and is therefore exposed to the custodians insolvency, maximum potential outflow under extreme market conditions is covered see Credit Risk section above.
its negligence, a misuse of assets or poor administration.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements and ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 March 2014 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years m m m m Borrowings 278.7 399.4 545.6 Trade and other payables 401.5 CCP liabilities 503,747.4 Derivative financial instruments 3.4 4.0 504,431.0 399.4 549.6 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over At 31 March 2013 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years m m m m Borrowings 0.4 499.2 297.2 Trade and other payables 230.0 3.2 0.2 CCP liabilities 146,088.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 1.1 2.4 146,318.6 3.2 500.5 299.6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 117 Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group operates in the UK, Italy, France and Sri Lanka The Group seeks, where it can, to match the currency of its debt liabilities with its EBITDA generation in the same and, through its FTSE International Limited and LCH.
currency whilst endeavouring to balance the currency of its assets with the currency of its liabilities.
The Group Clearnet Group Limited subsidiaries, has growing reinforces this methodology by regularly distributing its currency cash earnings in dividends and by absorbing businesses in the USA and Asia.
With the exception of currency earnings through interest payments on sterling debt, re-denominated through the use of cross-currency MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan Rupee reporting entity, which swaps or by drawing debt in the same currency, where this is practicable.
A proportion of the Groups debt is held invoices a material proportion of its revenues in US dollars, or effectively held in euro.
As at 31 March 2014, 400.5 million of drawn debt was euro denominated 2013: nil and LCH.
Clearnet Limited a euro reporting entity, which and 248.5 million 2013: 255.5 million of cross-currency swaps, directly linked to sterling debt, were designated incurs a majority of its costs in sterling, Group companies as a hedge of the net investment in the Italian Group.
A profit of 4.3 million for the financial year 2013: profit of generally invoice revenues, incur expenses and purchase 5.7 million on foreign currency borrowings, inter company loan assets and liabilities and cross-currency swap assets in their respective local currencies.
As a result, hedges was recognised in equity.
The net investment hedge was fully effective.
foreign exchange risk arises mainly from the translation of the Groups foreign currency earnings, assets and Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in accordance liabilities into its reporting currency, sterling, and from with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of more than 1 million or equivalent per annum should occasional, large intercompany transactions.
be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables within a short timeframe.
Hedge accounting of derivatives is considered to mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
The Group faces less significant foreign exchange exposures from transaction risk on dividends that are The Group reviews sensitivities to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
As at remitted in currencies other than the currency of the 31 March 2014, the Group has considered movements in the euro over the last year and has concluded that a 10 recipient operation.
per cent movement in rates is a reasonable level to measure the risk to the Group.
At 31 March 2014, if sterling had weakened or strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, post tax profit The Group may be exposed from time to time by for the year would have been, respectively, 0.3 million higher or 0.4 million lower 2013: 0.4 million higher and strategic investments in currencies other than sterling.
0.3 million lower : however, equity would have been 19.0 million lower 2013: 5.7 million lower and 23.2 million higher 2013: 7.0 million higher.
This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of euro denominated trade receivables, trade payables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss including euro denominated cash and borrowings.
If, on the other hand, the average sterling : euro exchange rate for the year had moved 5 cents, this would have changed the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items by approximately 12 million.
Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the impact Group interest rate management policy has been updated recently to reflect the change in the Groups net of changes in market rates on cash flows associated debt dynamic following the majority acquisition of LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited which maintains a significant with cash and cash equivalents, investments in net cash position.
The revised policy focusses on protecting the Groups credit rating and requires a minimum financial assets and borrowings held at floating rates.
coverage of interest expense by EBITDA to be maintained of 7 times and a maximum floating rate component of 50 per cent of total debt.
As at 31 March 2014, interest expense cover was at 8.0 times 2013: 9.9 times and The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure through the floating rate component of total debt was 23 per cent.
the impact of changes in the reference rates used to calculate member liabilities versus the yields achieved Group interest rate risk on cash and cash equivalents and investments in financial assets reflects underlying through their investment activities.
investments generally over short durations and so the Group is more exposed to movements in short term rates.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets have generally been invested for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is generally reset daily.
This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a one percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 March 2014, at the Group level, if interest rates on sterlingdenominated and euro-denominated cash and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would actually have been 6.5 million higher 2013: 6.3 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 March 2014, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for euro, US dollar and sterling liabilities respectively, had been one percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post-tax profit for the Group would have been 0.8 million lower.
This deficit would be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is re-invested.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
The significant judgements and estimates for the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows: Goodwill tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 13: Purchased intangible assets valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised: Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 16: and Contingent Liabilities assessment based on managements judgement concerning the particular facts and circumstances surrounding commitments and contingencies.
118 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segmental Information Segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows: Post Trade Services Post Trade Capital CC&G and Services LCH.
Information Technology Markets Monte Titoli Clearnet Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 309.5 98.4 263.0 348.7 64.0 4.7 1,088.3 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 10.9 11.8 Revenue 309.5 99.3 263.0 348.7 74.9 4.7 11.8 1,088.3 Net treasury income through CCP business 47.6 62.2 109.8 Other Income 3.5 15.0 11.5 Total income 309.5 146.9 321.7 348.7 74.9 19.7 11.8 1,209.6 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 144.7 83.5 81.1 169.7 11.8 8.7 11.7 511.2 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 116.5 Non-recurring items 41.6 Operating profit 353.1 Net finance expense 68.8 Profit before taxation 284.3 Other income statement items: Depreciation and software amortisation 25.3 5.5 23.0 15.6 5.3 0.2 12.6 62.3 The segmental reporting incorporates LCH.
Clearnets results since its acquisition by the Group on 1 May 2013.
Clearnet has not been included within the following tables.
Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered 1,014.0 million 2013: 658.5 million and Technology Services 64.0 million 2013: 56.1 million.
Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli, saw an expected sharp decline in net treasury income following completion of the migration to a minimum 95 per cent secured investment portfolio, partially offset by a modest increase in revenue resulting in total income decreasing to 146.9 million 2013: 208.5 million.
Net treasury income through CCP business of 109.8 million comprises gross interest income of 261.1 million less gross interest expense of 151.3 million.
Interest from investment in securities amount to 34.8 million.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2013 restated are as follows: Post Trade Capital Services CC&G Information Technology Markets and Monte Titoli Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 267.5 91.8 306.3 56.1 4.7 726.4 Inter-segmental revenue 21.3 21.3 Revenue 267.5 91.8 306.3 77.4 4.7 21.3 726.4 Net treasury income through CCP business 116.7 116.7 Other Income 9.8 9.8 Other non-recurring income 18.3 18.3 Total income 267.5 208.5 306.3 77.4 32.8 21.3 871.2 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 118.9 144.3 147.1 20.2 0.5 0.8 430.2 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 88.8 Non-recurring income 18.3 Non-recurring expenses 11.3 Operating profit 348.4 Net finance expense 49.5 Profit before taxation 298.9 Other income statement items: Depreciation and software amortisation 27.0 5.6 14.6 5.4 0.4 12.6 40.4 Net treasury income through CCP business of 116.7 million comprises gross interest income of 128.9 million less gross interest expense of 12.2 million.
Interest from investment in securities amount to 12.5 million.
The comparatives are shown following restatement for reallocation of technology costs across other segments.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 119 Geographical disclosure 2014 2013 m m Revenue UK 659.5 432.9 Italy 283.5 255.4 France 87.0 1.9 Other 58.3 36.2 Total 1,088.3 726.4 Revenue has been restated to be allocated based on the location of the group entity which earns the revenue which better represents our operating reviews.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: 2014 2013 m m Cost of sales 74.1 60.0 Employee costs 303.9 167.3 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 62.3 40.4 Amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and non-recurring costs 158.1 100.1 IT costs 92.0 64.5 Other costs 166.1 90.5 Total expenses 856.5 522.8 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: 2014 2013 Notes m m Salaries and other short term benefits 237.6 128.1 Social security costs 37.4 19.2 Pension costs 16 17.3 7.5 Share based compensation 11.6 12.5 Total 303.9 167.3 The average number of employees in the Group was: 2014 2013 UK 1,329 753 Italy 503 428 France 205 7 Sri Lanka 659 654 Other 151 120 Total 2,847 1,962 The Company has no employees.
Average is calculated from date of acquisition of the subsidiary company by the Group.
120 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 2014 2013 Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 13 116.5 88.8 Transaction credit 18.3 Transaction costs 14.9 7.6 Restructuring costs 28.8 3.7 Pension curtailment credit 2.1 Total affecting operating profit 158.1 81.8 Total affecting profit before tax 158.1 81.8 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 11.8 9.1 Current tax on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 2.2 2.2 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 9.1 1.0 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 23.1 12.3 Total charge to income statement 135.0 69.5 Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services related to potential or completed acquisitions.
Restructuring costs primarily relate to the integration of the LCH business in the current year.
The transaction credit in 2013 relates to funds received from the TMX Group following the termination of the 2010 merger agreement.
Net finance expense 2014 2013 Notes m m Finance income Bank deposit and other interest income 5.2 2.4 Other finance income 0.3 0.3 5.5 2.7 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 71.2 48.2 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 16 0.8 2.0 Other finance expenses 2.3 2.0 74.3 52.2 Net finance expense 68.8 49.5 9.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 23 per cent 24 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Taxation charged to the income statement 2014 2013 Notes m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the year 43.5 30.5 Overseas tax for the year 77.6 78.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.2 16.4 119.9 92.7 Deferred tax: 15 Deferred tax for the year 4.7 0.3 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1.8 0.5 Deferred tax liability on amortisation of purchased intangible assets 11.8 9.1 Taxation charge 101.6 83.4 The adjustments in respect of previous years corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns agreed with relevant tax authorities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 121 Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement 2014 2013 m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 3.5 2.0 Deferred tax loss credit: Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial gain loss 1.7 1.7 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 1.0 0.5 Movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.7 0.4 Adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.6 0.1 1.5 3.9 Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The income statement tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as explained below: 2014 2013 m m Profit before taxation 284.3 298.9 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 65.4 71.7 Expenses not deductible income not taxable 4.3 2.2 Adjustment arising from change in UK tax rate 2.4 0.7 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 19.1 17.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 3.0 16.8 Amortisation of purchased intangibles 13.4 12.3 Taxation charge 101.6 83.4 10.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring items and unrealised gains and losses to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
2014 2013 Basic earnings per share 63.0p 80.4p Diluted earnings per share 61.4p 79.0p Adjusted basic earnings per share 107.1p 105.3p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 104.4p 103.4p m m Profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 170.1 217.0 Adjustments: Amortisation and non-recurring items: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 116.5 88.8 Transaction costs 14.9 7.6 Transaction cost contribution from TMX Group 18.3 Restructuring costs 28.8 3.7 Pension curtailment costs 2.1 Other adjusting items: Unrealised net investment loss included in other income 3.5 Tax effect of amortisation and non-recurring items 23.1 12.3 Tax effect of other adjusting items 1.2 Amortisation, non-recurring and adjusting items, and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 18.1 2.5 Adjusted profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders 289.3 284.0 Weighted average number of shares million 270.1 269.8 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 7.0 4.8 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 277.1 274.6 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the ESOP.
122 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Dividends 2014 2013 m m Final dividend for 2013 paid 19 August 2013: 19.8p per Ordinary share 2012: 19.0p 53.5 51.2 Interim dividend for 2014 paid 6 January 2014: 10.1p per Ordinary share 2013: 9.7p 27.3 26.2 80.8 77.4 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014 of 20.7p, per share, which is estimated to amount to 56.0 million, to be paid on 19 August 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 123 13.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Italian Group, LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets.
The acquisition of the LCH.
Clearnet Group, the EuroTLX business within the Italian Group, and the FTSE TMX business during the year resulted in an increase of goodwill in the Group of 166.1 million in the year.
This value is preliminary and will be finalised during the following year.
During the year additions relating to internally generated software was 103.0 million.
124 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to eight cash generating units CGUs, including the CGU resulting from the acquisition of the LCH.
The Italian Groups Issuer, Equities Trading, Derivatives Trading and Fixed Income Trading CGUs which were in place as at 31 March 2013 were combined into a single Capital Markets CGU on 1 April 2013, reflecting the way in which those businesses are managed.
Similarly, MillenniumITs Software and Enterprise Service Provider CGUs which were in place as at 31 March 2013 were combined into a single MillenniumIT CGU on 1 April 2013.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 March 2019.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below: Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount Impact of rate used in 31 March restructuring of Acquisitions of Foreign 31 March value in use 2013 CGUs subsidiaries exchange 2014 calculations m m m m m Italian group: Issuer 18.6 18.6 n a Equities Trading 62.6 62.6 n a Derivatives Trading 28.0 28.0 n a Fixed Income Trading 70.7 70.7 n a Capital Markets 179.9 15.0 4.0 190.9 9.9% Information Services 115.9 2.3 113.6 9.9% Technology Services 17.8 0.4 17.4 10.1% Post Trade Services 367.0 7.3 359.7 9.8% MillenniumIT: Software 0.8 0.8 n a Enterprise Service Provider 0.8 0.8 n a MillenniumIT 1.6 0.2 1.4 17.3% Turquoise 7.4 7.4 14.1% FTSE Group 76.7 27.4 5.7 98.4 11.0% LCH.
Clearnet Group 123.7 3.5 120.2 12.4% 766.3 166.1 23.4 909.0 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reflect current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking into account an expected further recovery in underlying financial markets.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 1.8 per cent for each of the Italian CGUs, 13.5 per cent for MillenniumIT, and 3.1 per cent for Turquoise, the FTSE Group and the LCH.
Clearnet Group represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 16 year period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2018, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, Sri Lanka and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 125 Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of reasonable changes in these assumptions is shown below: Impact on value in use of: Excess of 5% 5% 0.5% reduction 0.5% increase value in use over reduction increase in long term in pre-tax carrying value in revenues in costs growth rate discount rate Cash generating unit m m m m m Italian group: Capital Markets 478.1 102.6 53.3 66.7 82.6 Information Services 205.2 32.7 12.8 25.4 31.6 Technology Services 43.2 12.7 8.9 4.4 5.4 Post Trade Services 420.7 88.9 41.6 60.9 75.5 Management believes goodwill allocated to the LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 March 2014.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Other Total Company m m m m 31 March 2012 3,320.6 375.2 67.0 3,762.8 Other movements during the year 5.2 11.1 16.3 31 March 2013 3,320.6 380.4 78.1 3,779.1 Capital contribution to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings I Ltd 460.4 460.4 Impairment of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 10.6 10.6 Other movements during the year 380.4 10.4 370.0 31 March 2014 3,310.0 548.9 3,858.9 Country of % Principal Country of principal equity and Principal subsidiaries: activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company: BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services & market technology Italy Italy 99.99 Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP for clearing Italy Italy 99.99 FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider UK UK 100 LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited CCP clearing services UK UK 57.80 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and centralised custody Italy Italy 98.80 MillenniumIT Software Private Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Societa per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility UK UK 51.36 On 5 April 2013, the Group entered into a transaction that resulted in the Group acquiring a 75 per cent stake in FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited for a total consideration of 78.1 million.
On 1 May 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of a further 55.5 per cent stake in LCH.
Clearnet, resulting in a majority stake of 57.8 per cent in LCH.
Clearnet for a consideration of 470.3 million.
Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
126 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions and Accelerated tax deferred tax and other temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 31 March 2012 2.0 117.3 14.8 100.5 Tax charged credited to the income statement: 0.4 9.1 0.6 9.3 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 1.6 1.6 allowance on share options awards 0.6 0.6 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.4 0.4 foreign exchange 0.4 0.4 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 31 March 2013 1.6 108.6 17.2 89.8 Tax credited to the income statement: 1.1 11.8 5.4 18.3 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme actuarial loss 2.5 2.5 allowance on share options awards 1.0 1.0 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.7 0.7 foreign exchange 0.7 0.7 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 5.7 72.3 5.8 60.8 31 March 2014 8.4 168.4 26.2 133.8 Assets at 31 March 2014 8.4 33.8 42.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2014 168.4 7.6 176.0 Net assets liabilities at 31 March 2014 8.4 168.4 26.2 133.8 Assets at 31 March 2013 1.6 17.6 19.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2013 108.6 0.4 109.0 Net liabilities assets at 31 March 2013 1.6 108.6 17.2 89.8 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The purchased intangible assets of the Italian group create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 59 million 2013: 57 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in a separate trustee administered fund and the funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and Aviva Investors during the year.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and the pension commitments of LCH.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
The only scheme operated by FTSE International is a defined contribution scheme.
Defined benefit schemes The UK defined benefit scheme was a non-contributory scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91 per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 127 The defined benefit scheme operated by LCH.
Clearnet was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
The scheme was closed to further employee contributions on 31 March 2013.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the UK, Italy and LCH entities.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of four to eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six to ten per cent of pensionable pay.
LCH pays fixed contributions to the defined contribution scheme and there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2014 2013 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans UK Pension Other plans Notes m m m m m Restated Restated Defined contribution schemes 3.4 5.5 7.6 3.4 2.2 Defined benefit scheme current service cost 0.9 0.5 0.6 1.9 Total pension charge included in employee costs 6 4.3 6.0 7.0 3.4 4.1 Net finance expense 8 0.7 0.4 0.5 1.7 0.3 Total recognised in the income statement 5.0 5.6 7.5 5.1 4.4 Defined benefit assets obligations for UK pension scheme 2014 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK LSEG UK LSEG UK LSEG UK m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities quoted 8.4 87.7 9.4 39.0 39.3 37.2 Bonds quoted 104.2 76.8 110.8 67.5 219.5 218.5 Property 4.3 11.4 24.4 23.3 13.3 Cash 4.4 5.8 Pensioner buy in policy 155.4 142.1 Foreign exchange 2.8 133.5 Total fair value of assets 276.7 167.5 273.7 264.4 282.1 269.0 Present value of funded obligations 300.6 153.0 291.4 274.2 244.5 264.4 Deficit surplus 23.9 14.5 17.7 9.8 37.6 4.6 UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: 2014 2014 2013 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK Inflation rate RPI 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% Inflation rate CPI 2.4% 2.4% 2.4% Rate of increase in salaries 3.4% n a 3.4% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.6% 2.2% 3.6% Discount rate 4.5% 4.5% 4.5% Life expectancy from age 60 years Non retired male member 28.6 n a 28.0 Non retired female member 30.5 n a 30.8 Retired male member 27.1 29.3 26.5 Retired female member 29.2 31.3 29.3 The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CM1 2013 projections and applied a 1.25 per cent 1.00 per cent for male female long term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSEG UK scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate CPI Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 4.1m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 20.1m Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 22.9m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 8.8m 128 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2014 2013 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK Other plans m m m m m Benefit obligation as at 1 April 291.4 7.9 274.2 6.7 Liabilities acquired in a business combination 160.6 11.1 Pension expense income : Current service cost 0.5 0.6 1.9 Interest cost 12.9 6.1 0.6 13.5 0.3 Subtotal included in the income statement 12.9 6.6 13.5 2.2 Re-measurement losses gains Actuarial gains losses financial assumptions 13.6 0.3 22.2 0.1 Actuarial losses demographic assumptions 1.3 0.2 Actuarial losses gains experience 4.3 0.5 9.5 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 5.6 13.6 12.7 0.1 Benefits paid 9.3 2.4 5.4 9.0 1.4 Foreign exchange 1.8 0.2 0.3 Benefit obligation as at 31 March 300.6 153.0 13.4 291.4 7.9 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the period 2014 2013 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK Other plans m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at 1 April 273.7 264.4 Assets acquired in a business combination 169.6 3.6 Pension income: Interest income 12.2 6.5 0.1 11.8 Subtotal included in the income statement 12.2 6.5 0.1 11.8 Re-measurement gains: Actuarial losses gains 2.6 7.0 0.3 5.9 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 2.6 7.0 0.3 5.9 Contributions by employer 3.6 0.1 0.6 Expenses 0.9 Benefits paid 9.3 2.4 3.7 9.0 Foreign exchange 0.8 Fair value of scheme assets as at 31 March 276.7 167.5 0.4 273.7 The actual return on plan assets was 9.6 million 2013: 17.7 million.
Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: 2014 2013 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK Other plans m m m m m Recognised up to 1 April 19.7 1.0 12.9 0.9 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 8.2 6.6 0.3 6.8 0.1 Cumulative amount recognised at 31 March 27.9 6.6 0.7 19.7 1.0 The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2012 by an independent qualified actuary.
The Group is currently in discussion on the contributions to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2014.
The next actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2015 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 129 The Group estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average to fall due over 20 years.
History of experience gains and losses for the UK pension scheme 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets: Experience loss gain m 2.6 5.9 23.4 5.3 25.6 Percentage of scheme assets 0.9% 2.2% 8.9% 1.9% 9.5% Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Experience loss gain m 4.3 9.5 3.9 1.5 7.5 Impact of changes in assumptions m 1.3 22.2 20.4 25.3 34.9 Total m 5.6 12.7 24.3 26.8 27.4 Percentage of scheme liabilities Experience loss gain 1.4% 3.3% 1.4% 0.6% 2.8% Impact of changes in assumptions 0.4% 7.6% 7.4% 10.3% 13.2% Total 1.8% 4.3% 8.8% 10.9% 10.4% 17.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Trade receivables 133.5 121.2 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 5.2 6.1 Trade receivables net 128.3 115.1 Amounts due from Group undertakings 534.1 579.4 Other receivables 38.3 5.9 Prepayments and accrued income 83.9 64.7 250.5 185.7 534.1 579.4 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 2014 2013 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 50.7 0.1 40.9 Greater than 3 months past due 5.2 11.6 6.0 9.7 5.2 62.3 6.1 50.6 The carrying amount of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 m m Sterling 122.9 98.3 Euro 90.7 58.4 Other Currencies 36.9 29.0 250.5 185.7 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2014 2013 m m 1 April 6.1 7.8 Provision for receivables impairment 3.4 1.4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 0.7 0.9 Provisions no longer required 3.4 2.2 Foreign exchange 0.2 31 March 5.2 6.1 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
130 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Financial instruments by category The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and Available value through Held to Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss maturity Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2014 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 337,211.5 337,211.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 117,702.6 117,702.6 Other receivables from clearing members 1,295.3 3,147.2 4,442.5 Financial assets held at fair value 9,707.8 1,433.3 11,141.1 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 24,735.1 5,926.7 2,616.7 33,278.5 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 143,733.0 5,926.7 352,682.2 1,433.3 503,776.2 Assets held at fair value 18.7 18.7 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 143,733.0 5,926.7 352,701.9 1,433.3 503,794.9 Trade and other receivables 133.5 133.5 534.1 534.1 Cash and cash equivalents 919.2 919.2 Available for sale financial assets 4.8 4.8 Cross currency interest rate swaps 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 Total 144,785.7 5,931.5 352,708.6 1,433.3 504,859.1 534.1 6.7 540.8 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 337,211.5 337,211.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 117,702.6 117,702.6 Other payables to clearing members 48,808.2 48,808.2 Financial liabilities held at fair value 25.1 25.1 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 503,747.4 503,747.4 Trade and other payables 401.5 401.5 204.4 204.4 Other non-current liabilities 79.2 79.2 Provisions 19.4 19.4 Borrowings 1,223.7 1,223.7 822.6 822.6 Interest rate swaps 3.4 3.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Total 7.4 505,471.2 505,478.6 4.0 1,027.0 1,031.0 The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The Group has no financial instruments in this category.
For assets and liabilities classified as level 2, the fair value is calculated using valuation techniques with market observable inputs.
Frequently applied techniques include forward pricing and swap models using present value calculations.
The models incorporate various inputs including foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves.
Level 1 CCP trading assets and liabilities were 8,467.8 million 2013: 3,426.6 million, Level 2 CCP trading assets and liabilities were 328,733.4 million 2013: nil.
Level 1 Financial assets held at fair value were 10,275.8 million 2013: 12.6 million, Level 2 Financial assets held at fair value were 865.3 million 2013: nil.
The cross currency interest rate swaps amounting to six contracts of 50 million each, effectively exchange some of the proceeds of the 2016 and the 2019 250 million bonds from sterling into euros to better match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of earnings, to reduce exposure to euro denominated net assets and to protect sterling cash flow.
These are designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting as both legs of the swap are at fixed rates and the cash flow components of the swaps exactly match the terms of the underlying bonds.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group recognised the 2.3 million movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves 2013: 2.5 million.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 131 Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the year to hedge the fair value of USD denominated exposures.
These hedges forward buy and sell USD payables and receivables, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the hedged item revaluation in the income statement.
This also offers more predictable sterling cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 March 2014, USD18m of receivables and USD12.7m of payables were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the hedges was 3k in aggregate.
Other non-current liabilities includes a CAD51.3m financial liability relating to the FTSE-TMX Canadian Dollar denominated investment.
This financial liability has been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in FTSE-TMX.
The Groups financial assets held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies note on pages 112-113.
As at 31 March 2014, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 2013: nil and none of these assets were past due 2013: nil.
The financial instruments of the Group and the Company at the previous years balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Assets at fair Assets at fair Loans and Available value through Loans and value through receivables for sale profit or loss Total receivables profit or loss Total 31 March 2013 m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 3,426.6 3,426.6 Receivables for repurchase transactions 127,036.2 127,036.2 Other receivables from clearing members 7,144.8 7,144.8 Financial assets held at fair value 12.6 12.6 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 2,681.1 5,795.1 8,476.2 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 136,862.1 5,795.1 3,439.2 146,096.4 Assets held at fair value 6.1 6.1 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 136,862.1 5,795.1 3,445.3 146,102.5 Trade and other receivables 121.0 121.0 579.4 579.4 Cash and cash equivalents 446.2 446.2 0.1 0.1 Available for sale financial assets 11.9 11.9 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Forward foreign exchange contract 0.3 0.3 Total 137,429.3 5,807.0 3,449.6 146,685.9 579.5 4.0 583.5 Group Company Derivatives used Other financial Derivatives used Other financial for hedging liabilities Total for hedging liabilities Total m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 3,426.6 3,426.6 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 127,036.2 127,036.2 Other payables to clearing members 15,610.4 15,610.4 Financial liabilities held at fair value 14.9 14.9 Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business 146,088.1 146,088.1 Trade and other payables 233.4 233.4 160.9 160.9 Provisions 27.3 27.3 Borrowings 796.8 796.8 796.4 796.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.1 Total 3.5 147,145.7 147,149.2 3.5 957.3 960.8 132 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet.
Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 March 2014 m m m Derivative financial assets 24,807,530 24,806,500 1,030 Reverse repurchase agreements 513,873 187,152 326,721 Other movements during the year 88,284 87,294 990 Total assets 25,409,687 25,080,946 328,741 Derivative financial liabilities 24,807,530 24,806,500 1,030 Reverse repurchase agreements 513,873 187,152 326,721 Other 88,284 87,294 990 Total liabilities 25,409,687 25,080,946 328,741 All offset amounts are held in the CCP trading assets and CCP trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 328,741.6 million to nil.
Default funds for derivatives of 4,018.7 million, repos of 1,497.1 million and other transactions of 377.0 million are held by the Group.
In addition, the Group holds margin of 14,954.8 million for derivatives, 12,506.5 million for repos and 4,896.3 million for other transactions, as well as additional variation margin amounts which are not allocated by business line.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Cash at bank 683.9 217.0 0.1 Short term deposits 235.3 229.2 919.2 446.2 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH.
Clearnet Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by subsidiaries on behalf of its clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of the clearers as managers of the clearing and guarantee system see note 18.
Cash and cash equivalents include amounts held by regulated entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 March 2014, the Group set aside 803.6 million 2013: 200.0 million for such purposes, with the amount subject to regular review with regulators in the UK, France and Italy.
Trade and other payables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes m m m m Trade payables 43.9 30.4 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 31 182.0 132.2 Social security and other taxes 17.2 12.5 Other payables 110.5 26.4 1.0 3.3 Accruals and deferred income 229.9 164.1 21.4 25.4 401.5 233.4 204.4 160.9 Current 401.5 230.0 204.4 160.9 Non-current 3.4 401.5 233.4 204.4 160.9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 133 22.
Borrowings Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 278.7 0.4 26.0 278.7 0.4 26.0 Non-current Bonds 796.6 796.5 796.7 796.5 Preferred securities 148.4 Deferred arrangement fees 0.1 0.1 945.0 796.4 796.7 796.4 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Interest rate Carrying value at percentage at Notes Facility 31 March 2014 31 March 2014 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jul 2016 250.0 165.1 LIBOR 0.8 Multi-currency revolving credit facility Jul 2018 450.0 112.7 LIBOR 0.95 Total Bank Facilities 700.0 277.8 Notes due July 2016 Jul 2016 250.0 251.0 6.125 Notes due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 248.2 9.125 Notes due November 2021 Nov 2021 300.0 297.4 4.75 LCH.
Clearnet preferred securities May 2017 165.6 148.4 6.576 Total Bonds 965.6 945.0 Total Committed Facilities 1,665.6 1,222.8 Current borrowings The Groups committed bank facility arrangements of 700 million were partially utilised at 31 March 2014 with 277.8 million drawn.
In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day to day liquidity requirements across its operations.
As at 31 March 2014, 0.9 million was the aggregate drawing against these facilities.
CC&G has unlimited direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged secured and unsecured credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totalled 450 million at the 31 March 2014, to further support its operational and liquidity requirements.
As a bank, Clearnet SA has full and unlimited access to the liquidity operations provided by the central bank, including refinancing securities at Banque fide France to support its normal day to day requirements.
134 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Non-current borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which was unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 6.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In June 2009, the Company issued another 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors which were unchanged throughout the financial year.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In November 2012, the Company issued a further 300 million bond under its euro medium term notes programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75 per cent per annum.
Clearnet Group Limited issued through Freshwater Finance plc 200 million of Perpetual Preferred Securities to underpin its capital structure.
20 million of these Securities were subsequently repurchased in the market by LCH.
The coupon on these Securities is currently a fixed rate of 6.576 per cent per annum and interest is paid annually.
In May 2017 this coupon is replaced by a rate of three month Euribor plus 2.1 per cent per annum, and a first call date attached to the Securities is May 2018.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 2014 2013 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 278.7 278.7 0.4 0.4 after more than one year 945.0 1,066.2 796.4 942.4 1,223.7 1,344.9 796.8 942.8 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 2014 2013 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within one year 26.0 26.0 after more than one year 796.6 910.3 796.4 942.4 822.6 936.3 796.4 942.4 The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 822.6 248.5 574.1 796.4 255.5 540.9 Euro 400.5 248.5 649.0 255.5 255.5 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 Total 1,223.7 1,223.7 796.8 796.8 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 135 23.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 919.2 446.2 0.1 Bank borrowings 278.7 0.4 26.0 Derivative financial liabilities 3.4 0.1 637.1 445.7 26.0 0.1 Due after one year Deferred arrangement fees 0.1 0.1 Bonds 796.6 796.5 796.6 796.4 Preferred Securities 148.4 Derivative financial assets 6.7 4.3 6.7 4.0 Derivative financial liabilities 4.0 3.5 4.0 3.5 Total net debt 305.2 349.9 819.9 795.7 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the year 491.7 227.6 0.1 0.3 Bond issue proceeds 297.6 297.6 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 192.1 257.8 26.0 247.8 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 299.6 187.8 26.1 49.5 Foreign exchange movements 11.2 2.6 0.5 0.4 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 1.4 2.4 2.2 2.6 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 Acquired debt 242.4 Net debt at the start of the year 349.9 538.0 795.7 743.3 Net debt at the end of the year 305.2 349.9 819.9 795.7 24.
Provisions Property m Group 1 April 2012 30.1 Utilised during the year 4.1 Interest on discounted provision 1.3 31 March 2013 27.3 Utilised during the year 9.7 Interest on discounted provision 1.8 31 March 2014 19.4 Current 2.8 Non-current 16.6 31 March 2014 19.4 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between one and 15 years to expiry.
The Company has no provisions.
136 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Ordinary share capital 2014 2013 Authorised millions m millions m 79 Ordinary shares of 6 p 271.1 18.8 271.1 18.8 86 More information about the shares and rights attached to the ordinary shares is given in the Directors Report on pages 98 and 99.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Profit before taxation 284.3 298.9 64.4 159.1 Depreciation and amortisation 178.6 129.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 1.5 Profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary and joint venture 6.9 Net finance expense income 68.8 49.5 79.3 148.9 Decrease in inventories 0.8 0.5 Decrease in trade and other receivables 37.2 3.0 9.7 3.2 Decrease in trade and other payables 118.6 9.6 6.7 10.2 Borrowing costs capitalised 0.5 0.6 Goodwill valuation amendment 1.2 Decrease increase in CCP financial assets 92,323.0 43,590.5 Decrease increase in CCP clearing business liabilities 92,236.4 43,594.4 Defined benefit pension obligation contributions in excess of lower than expenses charged 3.3 1.0 Provisions utilised during the year 9.7 6.1 Increase decrease in assets held at fair value from operating activities 9.5 8.0 Share scheme expense 13.4 13.1 Foreign exchange losses gains on operating activities 6.5 4.3 1.1 2.5 Cash generated from absorbed by operations 515.4 487.5 13.0 0.1 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 548.7 480.5 1.7 0.1 Non-recurring items 33.3 7.0 14.7 515.4 487.5 13.0 0.1 27.
Commitments and contingencies Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 1.7 million 2013: 1.6 million and nil 2013: 13.2 million respectively.
Clearnet Group Limited is currently engaged in correspondence and discussions regarding concerns raised by administrators in relation to a past default exercise which could give rise to a claim against it.
The amount and likelihood of success of any such claim, if made, is currently uncertain and accordingly no provision for any liability has been made in the interim statements.
28. Business combinations Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2014 The Group made three acquisitions during the period.
On 5 April 2013, the Group and TMX Group Limited completed a transaction to combine their fixed income businesses into a new business, FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited.
The transaction resulted in the Group acquiring a 75 per cent stake in FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited for a total consideration of 78.2 million.
The non-controlling interest NCI has an option to sell the remaining 25 per cent interest to the Group after six years or earlier in other limited scenarios.
Clearnet resulting in a majority stake of 57.8 per cent in LCH.
The total investment of 470.3 million includes deferred consideration of 20.0 million, payable on 30 September 2017 subject to acceleration or delay in certain limited circumstances.
The investment is inclusive of the Groups participation in the capital raise of LCH.
Clearnet issued share capital of 158.2 million.
On 23 September 2013, the Group acquired a 70 per cent interest in EuroTLX SIM SpA for a consideration of 26.1 million and 0.9 million in deferred consideration.
The NCI has an option to sell the remaining 30 per cent interest to the Group.
The value of the option is dependent on achieving growth and cost synergies in the next financial year.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 137 Contribution post acquisition Fair value of Operating Date acquired Total investment Goodwill assets acquired Revenue profit m m m m m m LCH.
Clearnet comprises cash consideration of 292.1 million, deferred consideration of 20.0 million and the Groups participation in the capital raise of 158.2 million.
Clearnet value of assets acquired is 273.7 million raised from all shareholders as part of the capital raise.
If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2013, estimated Group revenue for the year would have been 1,124 million, with operating profit before acquisition amortisation and exceptional items of 525 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
The assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital LCH.
The fair value adjustments include: LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited The additional 245.2 million of intangible assets arising on consolidation represents 47.4 million relating to various technologies, 33.4 million relating to software licences, 152.1 million relating to customer relationships and 12.3 million relating to trade names.
The fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their remaining useful life from the date of completion.
The goodwill of 123.8 million arising on consolidation represents the growth of future expected income streams from customers and its assembled workforce.
EuroTLX SIM SpA The purchased intangibles of 10.9 million primarily relates to customer relations of 10.0 million.
The goodwill of 15.6 million arising on consolidation includes value attributed to its assembled workforce.
FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited The purchased intangibles of 74.1 million mainly relate to customer relations of 69.1 million.
The goodwill of 27.4 million arising on consolidation represents the potential for the Group to expand into new territories such as the USA 16.3 million, Australia 7.4 million and China 3.7 million.
138 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Leases The Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 2014 2013 2014 2013 Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than one year 30.8 25.3 1.1 1.4 More than one year but less than five years 102.4 84.0 0.6 More than five years 93.0 82.7 226.2 192.0 1.7 1.4 Operating lease payments of 34.1 million 2013: 25.6 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 1.9 million 2013: 3.0 million in the year in relation to equipment.
The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 2014 2013 m m Leases expiring in: Less than one year 5.5 8.2 More than one year but less than five years 21.2 21.2 More than five years 7.0 10.9 33.7 40.3 The Company has no lease commitments.
Share Schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2004 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and for awards made since 2008, adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 70-97.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end 642,936 2013: 1,128,556 shares were held by the trust, funded by an interest free loan from the Group.
The Company has no employees, but in accordance with SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 139 The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average Weighted average Number remaining Number remaining outstanding contractual life outstanding contractual life Share options Less than 7 153,935 0.3 Between 7 and 8 10,506 85,680 1.7 Between 8 and 9 22,272 29,696 0.5 More than 9 105,255 0.5 113,804 2.6 SAYE Less than 7 439,487 0.5 465,024 1.2 Between 8 and 9 212,911 0.5 220,046 1.0 More than 9 214,485 0.7 LTIP Nil 6,392,726 1.3 6,492,473 1.4 Total 7,397,642 1.3 7,560,658 1.6 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Performance Related Equity Plan Matching Shares Share Save Plan 12 Jun 2013 12 Aug 2013 3 Sep 2013 5 Feb 2014 12 Jun 2013 30 Sep 2013 10 Jan 2014 Grant date share price 13.45 15.71 15.74 18.34 13.45 15.37 17.99 Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years 3.07 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Exercise price n a n a n a n a n a n a 12.64 Dividend yield 2.20% 1.90% 1.90% 1.60% 2.20% 1.90% 1.70% Risk-free interest rate 0.70% 0.70% 0.90% 1.00% 0.70% 0.80% 1.10% Volatility 30% 30% 30% 29% 30% 30% 30% Fair value 6.06 Fair value TSR 4.11 5.06 5.13 6.05 4.11 4.98 Fair value EPS 12.59 14.84 14.86 17.48 12.59 14.49 The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the Black-Scholes model was used.
The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical three-year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
140 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Transactions with Related Parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: 2014 2013 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 9.9 8.9 Pensions 0.9 0.5 Share based payments 10.7 4.6 21.5 14.0 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loan agreements with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 March 2014 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions due Interest in millions owed to from as at 31 March charge credit Interest rate as at 31 Loan counterparty 2014 2013 Term March 2014 2014 2013 London Stock Exchange plc 181.1 m 88.7 m 25 years from May 2006 with LIBOR plus 5.0 m 6.8 m five equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange 13.2m 14.2m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Employee Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group nil 450.0m Five years from March 2009, EURIBOR plus nil 24.4m Holdings Italy Limited Italian repayable in full on maturity 4.0% per annum Branch in March 2014.
London Stock Exchange Group nil 94.5m 20 years from January 2008 EURIBOR plus nil 2.6m Holdings Italy Limited Italian with five equal repayments 1.2% per annum Branch commencing in January 2024.
London Stock Exchange Group 9.6 m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 0.1m nil Holdings Italy Limited utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2013.
London Stock Exchange Group 474.9m 463.6m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 23.3m 22.1m Holdings Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
London Stock Exchange Group nil 0.6 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil Holdings R Limited utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2011.
Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia nil nil One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus nil 0.5 m S. p. A. date which was January 2012.
1.2% per annum Monte Titoli S. p. A. nil 31.9 m One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus 0.2 m 0.4 m date which was January 2012, 1.2% per annum extended for further six months to July 2013.
Societa Mercato Titoli di Stato S. p. A. nil 22.2 m One year from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus 0.3 m 0.2 m date which was 1 August 2013.
1.2% per annum LSE Reg Holdings Limited 0.2m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus nil nil utilisation date which was 1.2% per annum December 2013.
LSE Reg Holdings Limited 1.3m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil utilisation date which was 1.2% per annum December 2013.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 49.8m 13.8m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus 0.8m 0.3m utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2012.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 2.8m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2012.
During the year the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 5.0 million 2013: 8.0 million to London Stock Exchange plc, 0.2 million 2013: nil to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Inc, 0.1 million 2013: nil to London Stock Exchange OV Limited, 0.1 million 2013: nil to UnaVista Limited, 2.7 million 2013: 2.8 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd, 1.0 million 2013: 0.7 million to Millennium Information 2.0 million 2013: 1.2 million to FTSE Group and 0.2 million 2013: nil to LCH.
The Company received dividends of 118.2 million 2013: 112,4 million and 60.0 million 2013: 60.0 million respectively from its subsidiaries London Stock Exchange plc and London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 141 32.
Other Statutory Information Auditors remuneration payable to  LLP PwC and its associates comprise the following: 2014 2013 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.1 1.0 Audit related assurance services 0.4 0.4 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.6 0.2 Corporate finance 0.2 0.6 Other assurance services 0.1 Total expenses 2.8 2.5 Further details of the services provided by PwC are given in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 68.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: 2014 2013 m m Salary and fees 3.4 2.6 Performance bonus 2.7 2.6 Gains made on share awards 4.8 4.9 Benefits 0.4 0.3 11.3 10.4 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 0.7 0.3 12.0 10.7 During the year no Directors 2013: none had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and one Director 2013: one had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors emoluments are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 70-97.
