STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Statement of directors responsibilities 113 Statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
risk are discussed on pages 127-131.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for the Groups cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group funding at 31 December 2014 was 2,240 million which is committed until and Company financial statements in accordance with International July 2016 or beyond 2014: 1,649 million, described further in the Financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of the The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss for that period.
account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue them consistently: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: 62-63 of this Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge make judgements that are reasonable: and belief: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, Group taken as a whole: other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: the report of the Directors contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the state whether the Group financial statements have been prepared position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, taken as a it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that By Order of the Board are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006, other applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors Lisa Condron are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Company Secretary Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 17 March 2015 fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Strategic Report sections of the Annual Report on pages 2-61.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 54-61.
114 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc Opinion on financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the on page 113, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2014 statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our and of the groups profit for the nine months then ended: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing the group financial statements have been properly prepared in UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied Scope of the audit of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: What we have audited the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the We have audited the financial statements of London Stock Exchange directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Group plc for the nine months ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Income, Group Balance Sheet, Company Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Statement, Company Cash Flow Statement, Group Statement of Changes statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially in Equity and Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the implications for our report.
parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement and responses to those risks This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in The table below shows the risks we identified that have had the greatest effect accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members directing the efforts of the engagement team together with our audit response those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for to the risk.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc 115 Risk Response The risk that goodwill and other intangible assets may Audit procedures over the risk that goodwill may be impaired be impaired We examined the cash flow forecasts which support managements goodwill impairment review.
The Group holds significant intangible assets on its balance We assessed the reasonableness of those forecasts and the evidence supporting the underlying sheet, including goodwill, customer and supplier relationships, assumptions, by comparing to approved budgets, considering prior budget accuracy, and brands, software licences, intellectual property, and internally comparing expected growth rates to relevant market expectations.
We tested the weighted-average cost of capital discount rates assigned to the cash generating On an annual basis, management are required to perform an units, as well as the long-term growth rate, with reference to our understanding of the business, impairment assessment for goodwill, and to assess for indicators comparisons to other similar companies and broader market considerations.
We engaged EY of impairment in respect of other intangible assets.
Where valuation experts to support us with this analysis, and also assessed the work of managements indicators of impairment of other intangible assets are identified, third-party expert in reaching our own conclusion.
a full impairment assessment is performed.
These assessments involve significant management judgment in the application of We performed sensitivity analysis on the key inputs to impairment models, to understand the valuation models and assumptions.
impact that reasonable alternative assumptions would have on the overall carrying value.
As a consequence, there is a greater risk of misstatement in these Audit procedures over the risk that other intangible assets may be impaired balances, either by fraud or error, including through the potential override of controls by management.
For other intangible assets, we tested managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment exist, by reference to factors specific to each class of assets no such indicators were This risk is also described in the Report of the Audit Committee identified.
Examples included customer retention rates within specific business lines, future plans on page 76 of the Annual Report, as well as in Note 4 to the in respect of the use of developed software and the current returns made on intellectual property.
We also assessed the appropriateness of the amortisation period, and compared managements forecasts against historic data, to understand whether the periods remained appropriate.
Error identified As described in Note 2 to the financial statements, during the course of the interim review of the six months to 30 September 2014, errors were identified in respect of the accounting for acquisitions that had occurred in prior periods, relating to goodwill and deferred tax.
We performed audit procedures to substantiate the adjustment made, including validating the inputs to managements calculations, assessing the reasonableness of tax rates used and testing the accounting impact on brought forward balances.
Risk of fraud in recognition of revenue in secondary Secondary capital markets trading capital markets trading and fees or revenue shares for clearing arrangements For secondary capital markets trading, we increased our sample sizes by 75% for transactional testing, whereby we agreed a random selection of transactions back to supporting audit evidence, Compensation tied to the performance of the entity may create such as receipt of cash or the underlying contractual agreements: where appropriate, we also an incentive for management to manipulate results.
We have identified two revenue streams as having heightened We also used analytical tools to identify outliers in high volumes of transactional data for focused risk of misstatement, being capital markets trading, and fees or follow-up testing.
This analysis included comparing the fee per transaction to volume notional revenue sharing in respect of clearing arrangements.
They were traded, and investigating any particularly high values which were outliers to the overall population.
selected for the following reasons: Secondary capital markets revenue involves complex pricing Clearing arrangements structures based on product types, customer activity and volumes.
This complexity leads to a heightened risk that In respect of fee and revenue sharing arrangements, we critically assessed the accounting revenue may not be recognised appropriately, either as treatment adopted by management, and performed testing to gain assurance that the specific a result of fraud or error.
contracts had been accounted for in accordance with this policy.
Contracts relating to fee or revenue sharing in respect of revised clearing arrangements, between LCH.
Clearnet and We also tested the associated invoicing process for consistency with the agreements in place.
third-party participants, in some cases involve complex calculations to determine the correct level of revenue to recognise within the Group.
116 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc continued Risk Response Risk of error in accounting for the acquisition of Frank We visited the principal accounting location of the acquired subsidiary at the planning and Russell Company completion stages of the audit, to meet with the component auditor and local management, to understand their approach to the period end reporting, key areas of judgement and their The Group undertook a significant acquisition on 2 December assessment of risk.
2014, in close proximity to the period end.
The acquired business includes activities that are not core to the Groups In addition to procedures over the period end results of the new component, we instructed existing operations, and which are currently accounted for the auditor of the acquired subsidiary to perform an audit of the financial position as at the under a non-IFRS financial reporting framework.
The acquired entity was consolidated into the Groups results Alongside the Group audit team in performing the review of work undertaken by the component from the date of acquisition.
auditor, we involved specialists in the audit of asset management companies with experience in the differences between IFRS and US GAAP, as well as individuals knowledgeable of local There is a risk of error in the: taxation rules.
Appropriate accounting for the acquisition, including the significant judgement involved in the determination Management engaged a third-party firm to perform the intangible asset fair value calculations of goodwill and other intangible assets.
We assessed the competency of the firm and examined Completeness and accuracy of disclosures relating and challenged key inputs into their analysis, including the deal model, deal value and allocation specifically to the transaction, but also in respect of the between the index and investment management divisions, the discount rates used, performance impact of new business lines on pre-existing disclosures.
forecasts and the remaining useful lives of the intangible assets identified.
The conversion of the financial performance of the component from US GAAP to IFRS.
We performed benchmarking of the above factors, where appropriate, to similar market Compressed reporting timetable, compared to participants, and undertook sensitivity analyses over these inputs to assess the impact requirements prior to the acquisition.
of reasonable alternative assumptions on the results reached.
This risk is also described in the Report of the Audit We note that there is a 12 month period to finalise the allocation of intangible assets from the Committee on page 76 of the Annual Report, as well overall goodwill balance, accordingly, managements assessment is provisional at this time.
as in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Post-balance sheet announcement We considered the announcement made after the year end, to dispose of the investment management division of the acquired entity, in the context of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
We obtained evidence of managements intentions and plans, through the review of Board minutes and market announcements, to gain assurance that the accounting and disclosure treatment adopted was appropriate.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the group to be 12 million, which is 5% of pre-tax profit, adjusted to reverse non-recurring transaction costs of 54 million disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements.
In comparison to the prior year, the level of materiality was, in part, impacted by the shorter accounting period.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% of planning materiality, namely 6 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to gain reasonable assurance that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
Audit work at individual components is undertaken based on a percentage of our total performance materiality: this is with the exception of the audit work conducted at the Group holding company, and the acquisition date audit of Frank Russell Company, which was performed to overall Group materiality level due to the nature of the Group balances and disclosures affected this financial information.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative size of the component and our view of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.2 million to 3.0 million.
We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in the light of other relevant qualitative considerations.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 500k.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Independent Auditors Report to the members of London Stock Exchange Group plc 117 An overview of the scope of our audit the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report In establishing the scope of our audit, we considered the risk of material for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is misstatement to the financial statements, as well as the internal organisation consistent with the financial statements.
We identied eight audit components, which cover the principal Matters on which we are required to report by exception locations and businesses of the Groups domestic and overseas operations.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: These were: London Stock Exchange Group plc full-scope Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our London Stock Exchange plc full-scope opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited full-scope statements: or FTSE International Limited full-scope apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italia Limited full-scope our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Turquoise Global Holdings Limited specic-scope is otherwise misleading.
MillenniumIT Software Private Limited specic-scope LSEG US Holdco, Inc. which contains the business of Frank Russell In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any Company full-scope for the acquisition audit and limited scope at inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the the period end directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those Components subject to a full scope audit account for over 90% of the Groups matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider revenue, profit before tax and profit before tax before and after the reversal should have been disclosed.
of the transaction costs noted above.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As detailed above, some components were subject to a full scope audit, in our opinion: and others were subject to audit procedures over specic accounts, with adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, these components being designated as specic scope.
All components, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches and where relevant, the specic accounts in scope, were selected to provide not visited by us: or an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors material misstatement identied above.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Having considered the timing and risks associated with its acquisition by the Group, we instructed the component auditor of LSEG US Holdco, Inc. certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not Frank Russell Company, to perform a full scope audit as at the date of made: or acquisition 2 December 2014, and limited procedures for the period we have not received all the information and explanations we require between the acquisition and period end dates.
Limited procedures were for our audit: or also performed for all other components four in total not covered above, to confirm that there were no significant risks of material misstatement in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Group financial statements.
In both cases, the limited procedures the directors statement, set out on page 112, in relation to going consisted primarily of analytical procedures, and enquiries of management.
concern: and Oversight of component auditors the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the A programme of planned visits was undertaken to ensure that the Group companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate audit team visited each of the locations where the Group audit scope was Governance Codes specified for our review.
These visits included meetings with management and component auditors, to enable further understanding of business activities and the associated risks as well as any local audit considerations.
Whilst we oversaw the work of all components, there were two components David Canning-Jones Senior statutory auditor audited by a different rm.
In these cases, local EY teams, supported the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Group team in performing enhanced review procedures over the working London papers of the other rm.
This was with the objective of gaining assurance 17 March 2015 over the quality of work performed, and the completeness and accuracy of Notes: deliverables to the Group audit team.
The maintenance and integrity of the London Stock Exchange Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially In our opinion: presented on the website.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
