142 Shareholder information London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Market structures PROCESS EXPLANATION THE GROUPS INVOLVEMENT The process of trading Electronic trading Computerised systems for matching Equities London and Italian trading platforms and Turquoise pan-European & US trading buy and sell orders of financial ETFs, ETCs London and Italian trading platforms instruments, such as equities, Bonds MTS, MOT, ORB and EuroTLX bonds and derivatives.
Derivatives LSE Derivatives, IDEM, IDEX and AGREX Clearing After a trade has been matched, LCH.
Clearnet acts as a CCP for LSE equities, derivatives and bonds, Turquoise equities usually by a trading system, it is and MTS bonds.
Clearnet also clears commodities and for global OTC derivatives cleared by a Central counterparty and non-Group venues.
It has clearing houses in the UK, France and USA.
CCP who stands in the middle of a trade as the buyer to every CC&G acts as a CCP for Italian cash equities, derivatives and fixed income.
CC&G also clears seller and the seller to every buyer.
OTC trades and non-Group venues.
If either party defaults on the trade, the CCP owns the defaulters risk and becomes accountable for its liabilities.
During the life of a trade, or that of a portfolio of trades, CCPs process all cash flows and continuously mark the trade or book to market, calling variation and initial margin in relation to prevailing risk of the overall portfolio.
Settlement Settlement is the process of Monte Titoli operates the X-TRM and EXPRESS II systems, which cover Italian pre-settlement delivering title to the financial and settlement, creating netted settlement instructions, making the actual payments and instrument to the buyer against delivering securities.
For equities, this normally takes place three days after the trade.
Netted settlement reduces a large number of positions to a single position payment.
Settlement operates both for transactions through a trading system and those completed over the counter OTC.
Custody A custodian or Central Securities Monte Titoli provides Italian custody services for financial instruments such as equities Depositary CSD undertakes the and bonds, whether dematerialised or in paper form.
fide-materialised securities are those safekeeping and administration that can be held without the need for paper certificates.
of securities on behalf of issuers and investors.
The Group will launch a new International CSD, based in Luxembourg, in the first half of 2014.
Post Trade OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Market structures 143 EXPLANATION ATTRIBUTES THE GROUPS INVOLVEMENT Trading under MiFID Exchange model Traded through trading Regulated Trading platforms offered by the London for trading platforms run by an operator Order driven Stock Exchange and Borsa Italiana, of a Regulated Market.
Neutral including securities listed and or admitted Transparent to trading on the Groups primary markets Liquid Widest stock coverage Widest client base On exchange business done off Telephone trading On exchange trade reporting and publication order book and reported to a Regulated Market.
MTF MiFID compliant secondary trading Regulated MTF services provided through Turquoise platform providing trading facilities Order driven and Euro MTS similar to those offered by Neutral exchanges regulated markets.
Transparent Can include dark pool trading see below OTC Over-the-counter bilateral market Regulated participants OTC trade reporting and publication services conducted through electronic Large or block trades systems or by telephone.
Way to trade less liquid stocks Electronically connected market consisting of dealers who are in constant contact, thereby facilitating trading directly between two parties.
What are features of lit and dark order books?
Lit order books display price and size of bids and offers so that orders are uncrossings during the trading day which increases likelihood of matching visible prior to execution.
The benefit is certainty of trade.
The challenge i resting buy and sell orders at a fair mid price.
Independent study by Liquid s potential market impact.
Dark order books mitigate market impact by Metrix observed execution quality of Turquoise Uncross best in class allowing orders to reside in an order book where the price and size of an among public dark pools by multiple criteria.
order is not displayed until after the trade.
Users of a dark book, therefore, have no certainty pre-trade that another order is in the dark book.
Regulatory development Revised MiFID MiFIR The benefit, however, is the ability to place orders without revealing ones Revised MiFID MiFIR, political agreement having been reached, intention, pre-trade.
Furthermore, an investor can peg the non-displayed are now in the rule-making stage with the EU Commission and ESMA.
price of the order in the dark book to follow the mid-point of the bid and The measures contain a broad range of market structure and conduct offer displayed on the reference lit Exchange.
After a trade, the price and of business measures, aimed at extending the scope of MiFID more size of the completed order is published.
This is important as it adds to generally to non-equities, promoting transparency, regulation, efficiency transparency for all investors, because post trade transparency is and competitiveness of EU financial markets.
Key changes of relevance pre-trade transparency for the next trade.
to the Group include non-discriminatory access to trading venues and CCPs, non-exclusive licensing of benchmark indices, the introduction Dark pool trading on Turquoise of SME Growth Markets, the extension of pre and post trade transparency Turquoise Midpoint Dark is a public order book offered equally to all to non-equity asset classes, including bonds and derivatives, and increased members.
Turquoise Midpoint Dark matches orders pegged to the regulatory requirements for high frequency trading strategies and mid-point of the Primary Best Bid and Offer of the respective Exchange.
Implementation is expected to take place by Size priority in Turquoise Midpoint matching logic is different to traditional end 2016, with full implementation of some aspects thereafter.
time priority of other public orders books and promotes larger sized orders to the front of the queue.
Size priority and user-defined Minimum Execution Size MES are key features of two distinct functionalities that Turquoise Midpoint Dark offers: Continuous Midpoint Matching, and Turquoise Uncross an innovation that provides periodic random
