122 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries shares, loans and other contributions are The Companys and Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared recognised at cost.
These are reviewed for impairment when events indicate in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the carrying amount may not be recoverable and are accounted for in the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the Companys financial statements at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC and have consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been been adopted in these financial statements: consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and amendments The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention regarding control: as modified by the revaluation of assets and liabilities held at fair value and IFRS 11, Joint arrangements: on the basis of the Groups accounting policies.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities and amendments: The Group uses a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits on Defined Benefit Plans: income statement.
This enables the Group to aid the readers understanding Employee Contributions: of its results by presenting profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items.
This is the profit IAS 27 Revised 2011, Separate financial statements and amendments: measure used to calculate adjusted earnings per share and is considered to IAS 28 Revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures: be the most appropriate as it best reflects the Groups underlying, recurring cash earnings and is the primary measure of performance monitored by Amendments to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation on the Groups Executive Committee.
Profit before acquisition amortisation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: and non-recurring items is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets on recoverable amount of the income statement.
disclosures: The Group has changed its financial year end to 31 December.
As a Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and consequence, the financial statements shows results for nine month period measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting: to 31 December 2014, with the comparatives remaining for the year to Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and Annual Improvements 31 March 2014.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries with all inter-company balances and The adoption of these standards did not have a material impact on these transactions eliminated, together with the Groups attributable share of the consolidated financial statements.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up to, or from, the date that control passes.
Control is The following standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its IFRIC since the last Annual Report, but have not been adopted either because involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns they were not endorsed by the European Union EU at 31 December 2014 or through its power over the investee.
they are not yet mandatory and the Group has not chosen to early adopt.
The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future standards, As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys amendments and interpretations is still under review: income statement has not been included in these financial statements.
The International accounting standards and interpretations Effective date Companys income for the period is disclosed within the statement of changes Amendments to IFRS 11, 'Joint arrangements' on accounting in equity.
for acquisitions of interest in a joint operations 1 January 2016 Amendment to IAS 16, 'Property, plant and equipment Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method.
The and IAS 38, 'Intangible assets', on Clarification of Acceptable Groups investments in associates are initially recognised at cost, and its share Methods of Depreciation of profits or losses after tax from associates is included in the consolidated and Amortisation 1 January 2016 income statement.
Cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted Amendments to IAS 27, 'Separate financial statements' on equity method in separate financial statements 1 January 2016 against the carrying amount of the investment in the Groups balance sheet.
Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements The financial statements of associates are used by the Group to apply the and IAS 28, 'Associates and joint ventures on sale and equity method, under which the Groups income statement reflects the Groups contribution of assets between an investor and its associate share of the results of operations of the associates.
A company is considered or joint venture 1 January 2016 an associate where the Group has a significant influence.
Significant influence Annual Improvements 2012-2014 1 January 2016 is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities and IAS 28, 'Associates and joint ventures on applying the consolidated exception for investment entities 1 January 2016 The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
Proposed amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, statements disclosure initiative 1 January 2016 at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and IFRS 14, Regulatory deferral accounts 1 January 2016 equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers' 1 January 2017 Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring accounting policies IFRS 9, Financial instruments on classification and into line with those of the Group.
measurement and amendments regarding general hedge accounting 1 January 2018 The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests through the economic entity model.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recognised in equity.
Where the non-controlling interest has an option to dispose of their holding to the Group, then these costs are recognised at the fair value of the option at the balance sheet date.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 123 Accounting policies Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which Income Statement is the Companys presentation and functional currency.
Foreign currency Revenue transactions are converted into the functional currency using the rate ruling Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement.
Translation differences on Revenue is recognised in the period when the service or supply is provided.
non-monetary items, such as equities held at fair value through profit or The sources of revenue are: loss, are reported as part of their fair value gain or loss.
Exceptions to this are a Maintenance contracts, membership and other fees revenue is where the non-monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the fee relates: operation or are designated as hedges of a net investment, or as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
b Admission fees revenue is recognised at the time of admission to trading: c Clearing fee income and rebates, together with other fee income and net The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional settlement fees, are recognised on a transaction by transaction basis in currency different from the presentation currency are converted into the accordance with the Groups fee scales: presentation currency as follows: d Royalties revenue is recognised at the date at which they are earned or a assets and liabilities including goodwill, purchased intangible assets and measurable with certainty: fair value adjustments are converted at the closing balance sheet rate: e IT products where there is no significant service obligation the revenue is b income and expenses are translated and recorded in the income recognised upon delivery and acceptance of the software or hardware by statement at the average monthly rates prevailing: and the customer, in other circumstances revenue is recognised on provision of contracted services: c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
f IT solutions where software is sold requiring significant modification, integration or customisation, the consideration is allocated between the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the different elements on a fair value basis.
Revenue is recognised using a net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowing and other currency percentage of completion method.
The stage of completion is determined instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to by reference to the costs incurred to date as a proportion of the total shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, estimated costs or the services performed to date as a percentage of total exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the services to be performed.
Provision is made for all foreseeable future losses income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
in the period in which they are identified: g Software and Licence fees revenue is recognised when the performance Finance income and expense under the contract has occurred and the revenue has been earned: and Finance income and expense comprises interest earned on cash deposited with financial counterparties and interest paid on borrowings which reflect h Other all other revenue is recognised in the month in which the service the agreed market-based or contractual rate for each transaction undertaken is provided.
Borsa Italiana group defers some of the income received from during the financial period.
cash trading and FTSE MIB futures trading and clearing.
This deferral results in revenues being recognised at the average price of transactions Recurring fees and charges levied on committed bank facilities and the forecast for the full year, as pricing levels reduce during the year when payments and cash management transactions and services provided by the incremental volume targets are achieved.
Groups banks are charged to the income statement as accrued.
Credit facility arrangement fees are capitalised and then amortised back to the income The main source of revenue is through fees.
statement over the term of the facility subject to protected utilisation.
Fees and charges are included within other finance costs.
Non-recurring items Items of income and expense that are material by size and or nature and are Fair value gains and losses on financial instruments include the movement non-recurring are classified as non-recurring items on the face of the income in the market valuations of derivative instruments held as fair value hedges.
statement within their relevant category.
The separate reporting of these items together with amortisation of purchased intangible assets helps give Balance Sheet an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included in the financial statements Pension costs at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes the service cost, representing benefits Freehold buildings, fixed plant and plant and equipment are stated at accruing to employees, is included as an operating expense.
The interest cost cost and are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over and expected return on plan assets is calculated by applying the discount rate the estimated useful economic lives of the assets which are as follows: to the net defined benefit liability or asset at the start of each annual reporting a Freehold buildings 30 to 50 years: period.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, b Fixed plant three to 20 years: and changes in actuarial assumptions or differences between actual and expected c Plant and equipment three to 15 years.
returns on assets are recognised at each period end net of tax in the statement of comprehensive income.
The net asset or liability recognised on the balance Leasehold properties and improvements are included at cost and depreciated sheet comprises the difference between the present value of pension to residual value over the shorter of the period of the lease or the useful obligations and the fair value of scheme assets.
For defined contribution economic life of the asset.
schemes, the expense is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Leases Share based compensation Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership The Group operates a number of equity settled share based compensation are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made plans for employees.
The charge to the income statement is determined by under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightthe fair value of the options granted or shares awarded at the date of grant line basis.
Lease incentives are spread over the term of the lease.
and recognised over the relevant vesting period.
124 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The Group leases certain plant and equipment where the Group has arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
These are classified as amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred taxation is determined using finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement tax rates that are substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of expected to apply when the asset is realised or liability settled.
Deferred tax the minimum lease payments.
assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that they will be recoverable against future taxable profits.
Each lease payment is apportioned between the finance charge and the liability so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
Classification of financial assets Plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over Financial assets excluding clearing business the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale and loans and receivables.
Intangible assets The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling assets at initial recognition.
interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the held for liquidity purposes, they are initially recognised at fair value and liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised directly in the to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results income statement.
These assets are financial instruments not designated in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate as hedges.
consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
b Available-for-sale financial assets Investments other than term deposits and interests in joint ventures, On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the assets and associates and subsidiaries are designated as available-for-sale and are liabilities acquired.
These may include brand names, customer relationships, recorded on trade date at fair value plus transaction costs with changes in licences and software intellectual property, all of which are recorded as fair value recognised in equity.
Where the fair value is not reliably intangible assets and held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
These measurable, the investment is held at cost less any provision for assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives impairment.
Assets such as shares in clearing and payment transmission which are as follows: operations and long term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures are usually classified as available-for-sale.
a Customer and supplier relationships two to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life exceeding 15 years : c Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or b Brands 10 to 25 years material assets are amortised over a life determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are of 25 years : and included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than c Software licenses and intellectual property two to 25 years the majority 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as nonof material assets are amortised over a life not exceeding five years.
Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
The useful economic lives are based on managements best estimate such as attrition rates on customer relationships, product upgrade cycles for software Financial assets and liabilities of the central counterparty and technology assets, market participant perspective for brands and pace of CCP business change of regulation for business.
Assets and liabilities of the CCP clearing service relate to subsidiaries that perform the CCP clearing business.
The activities include clearing of financial Third party software costs for the development and implementation of derivatives, equities and bond transactions on regulated markets.
The Group systems which enhance the services provided by the Group are capitalised enters into a contractual arrangement in respect of each side of the and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives of three to five years.
transaction, bears the risk associated with counterparties failing to honour their obligations and, in the event of a failure to deliver by any counterparty, Internal product development expenditure is capitalised if the costs can be is required itself to complete the delivery.
Accordingly, the Group must record reliably measured, the product or process is technically and commercially an asset and a liability on its balance sheet in respect of each of the sale feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group has sufficient and purchase sides of each transaction.
However, except in respect of failed resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset.
The assets transactions the Group as a CCP clearer does not bear any price risk and are recorded at cost including labour, directly attributable costs and any third the value of the sale and purchase side of each transaction are the same: party expenses, and amortised over their useful economic lives of three to consequently, the principal CCP asset and liability amounts largely match five years.
The Group has adopted the settlement date as the reference date for recognising financial assets.
Intangible assets are assessed for any indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Where indicators of impairment for a particularly Income recognised through the CCP clearing business includes net intangible asset are identified, a full impairment assessment is performed, treasury income earned on margin and default funds, held as part of our risk with any diminution in value recognised in the income statement.
When management process, and is shown separately from the Group revenues.
performing any impairment assessment, in addition to considering matters This amount has been shown separately on the face of the income statement particular to the relevant Group business area, management evaluates to distinguish this income stream from revenues arising from the Groups the overall value of the asset from the perspective of a market participant.
other activities and provides the reader with a greater understanding of Accordingly, any reduction in value recorded, represents the Groups view the operating activities of the Group.
of the market fair value of the intangible asset.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Current and deferred taxation balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries and settle the liability simultaneously.
where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Full provision is made, using the liability method, for temporary differences STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 125 Accounting treatments of CCP financial assets and liabilities include The Group hedges a proportion of its net investment in its Italian Companies the following: by designating euro borrowings as a net investment hedge.
a Derivatives, trading assets and liabilities In order to qualify for hedge accounting, a transaction must meet strict criteria These transactions are initially recorded at fair value, and are subsequently as regards documentation, effectiveness, probability of occurrence and reliability re-measured on the basis of the market price of each derivative instrument of measurement.
The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the at the period end.
Since the asset and liability positions of the CCP clearer are relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its matched, the same amount is recorded for both the assets and liabilities and risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging no net fair value gains or losses are recognised in the income statement.
Effectiveness testing is conducted at each reporting date and at the commencement and conclusion of any hedge in order to verify that the hedge b Receivables for and liabilities under repurchase transactions continues to satisfy all the criteria for hedge accounting to be maintained.
The These represent repurchase transactions repos by clearing members using ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
the Groups clearing and guarantee service.
They represent the value of transactions already settled spot and not yet settled at term.
These Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the transactions are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently period when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the measured at amortised cost, by allocating the yield on the repo pro-rated forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument over the duration of the contract the coupon accrued in the period and the expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge difference between the spot and forward prices.
Since the asset and liability accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time positions for repos are matched, the same amount is recorded for both assets remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is and liabilities and no gain or loss is recorded in the income statement.
ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction c Other receivables from and payables to clearing members and default funds is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported These comprise accounts receivable and payable deriving from the activities in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
of clearing members in derivatives, equities and bond transactions.
They mainly represent amounts to be received or paid in relation to initial and Put option written on non-controlling interests variation margins, option premiums, securities as collateral and default fund Commitments to purchase minority interests and put options granted to contributions and are initially recorded at fair value.
They are generally minority shareholders are recognised at fair value as a financial liability.
settled on the next day and, accordingly, are not discounted back to current When the financial liability is recognised initially, the redemption amount value.
Default funds absorb any losses incurred by the Group in the event of is reclassified from equity.
The changes in the measurement of the financial clearing members default where margin collateral is insufficient to cover the liability are recognised in profit and loss.
Changes in the measurement of management and close out of the positions of the defaulting members.
that financial liability do not change the relative interests in the subsidiary that are held by the parent and the  shareholder d Financial assets and liabilities at fair value and therefore are not equity transactions.
These represent quoted equity and bond securities which have already withdrawn from the settlement system but have not yet delivered to Trade receivables the intermediaries who have bought them and securities traded but Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their fair value, not yet settled as part of the CCP function.
These are initially recognised at which is usually the original invoiced amount less provision for impairment.
fair value and subsequently re-measured at fair value, based on the market A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there price of each security.
The difference between the settlement price of each is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts security at trade date and the market price of that security at the period due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial end is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement.
difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or e Held to maturity will be subject to a financial reorganisation or default on, or be delinquent on, These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable its payment obligations are considered indicators that the trade receivable is payments and fixed maturities which the Group has the intention and impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets ability to hold to maturity.
After initial measurement held to maturity carrying amount and the present value of the portion deemed recoverable.
financial investments are subsequently measured at amortised cost The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance using the effective interest rate less impairment.
The amortisation of account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
any premium or discount is included in interest income.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the income statement.
f Cash and cash equivalents restricted These include amounts received from clearing members to cover initial Cash and cash equivalents and variation margins and default fund contributions as collateral against Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, term deposits and default or insolvency and are deposited with banks.
Such amounts are investments in money market funds and other instruments and structures initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recognised at that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to amortised cost using the effective interest method.
insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Assets held for sale Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging value less costs to sell.
instrument, and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging interest rate risk on borrowings.
Any Borrowings gain or loss is recognised in the income statement within finance expenses.
Bank borrowings are initially recorded at the fair value of amounts received, net of direct issue costs and transaction costs including upfront facility fees.
The Group designates as cash flow hedges both foreign currency derivatives Subsequently, these liabilities are carried at amortised cost, and interest is and hedges of interest rate movements associated with highly probable charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the forecast transactions.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating effective interest rate method.
Similarly direct issue costs and transaction to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity.
costs including upfront facility fees are charged to the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
126 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Preference shares Preference shares or components of preference shares are classified on initial recognition as financial liability or equity based on the terms of the contract.
They are classified as a financial liability if the terms imposes a contractual obligation to deliver cash.
Provisions A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, whether legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provision is made in the financial statements for the lower of the cost of fulfilling lease commitments for property space surplus to business requirements after taking into account income from sub-letting, and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil the lease commitments.
Such provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital The Companys own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted from equity until they vest unconditionally for employees and are held at cost.
Consideration paid in respect of these treasury shares is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Prior period adjustment On business combinations the Group recognises a deferred tax liability against the intangible assets acquired.
The deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of the amortisation of the acquired intangibles which have no or partial tax base for the Group.
The deferred tax is recognised and released to the income statement over the same period as the amortisation of the acquired intangible assets.
The recognition of the deferred tax is an accounting treatment to ensure that the effective tax rate is maintained for the Group and is not impacted by amortisation costs which are not tax deductible.
There were no cash or working capital impacts of these movements or to the balance sheet of the parent company.
It was identified that the deferred tax recognised was insufficient.
As a consequence, the release of the liability to the income statement, which results in a reduction in the Groups income statement tax charge, was understated.
The correction of these entries result in an increase in deferred tax liability, goodwill and a resulting credit to the income statement as the deferred tax liability is unwound over the useful economic lives of the associated purchased intangibles.
In addition in circumstances where the underlying assets have been recognised in a currency other than sterling there is an adjustment in relation to the retranslation of these balances.
The effect of these adjustments on the prior year is shown by restating each of the affected financial statement line items as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 m m Effect on equity Increase in goodwill 4.3 189.4 Decrease increase in deferred tax liabilities 10.5 158.1 Net impact on equity 14.8 31.3 The amounts disclosed above for the year ended 31 March 2014, exclude the cumulative effect disclosed for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The cumulative impact for the year ended 31 March 2014 on goodwill is 193.7 million, deferred tax creditor is 147.6 million and net equity is 179.3 million.
Year ended 31 March 2014 m Effect on the income statement Profit for the financial period as originally stated 182.7 Taxation charge reduction 15.3 Profit for the financial period restated 198.0 Effect on the other comprehensive income Other comprehensive loss for the period as originally stated 54.1 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 0.5 Other comprehensive loss for the period restated 54.6 Attributable to: Equity holders 0.5 Non-controlling interests STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 127 Year ended 31 March 2014 Effect on earnings per share Basic earnings per share as originally stated 63.0p Prior period adjustment 5.5p Adjustment due to rights issue 5.5p Basic earnings per share restated 63.0p Diluted earnings per share as originally stated 61.4p Prior period adjustment 5.3p Adjustment due to rights issue 4.8p Diluted earnings per share restated 61.9p There was no effect on adjusted basic earnings per share or adjusted diluted earnings per share as the deferred tax adjustment is treated as an adjusting item to the operating profit.
Financial risk management The Group seeks to protect its financial performance and the value of its business from exposure to capital, credit, concentration, country, liquidity and market including foreign exchange, fair value and cash flow interest rate and other price risks.
Financial risk management is not speculative.
It is performed both at a Group level, where the treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks from a Group perspective and also locally, where operating units manage their regulatory and operational risks.
This includes clearing operations at the Groups CCPs at LCH.
Clearnet Group and CC&G and investment management activities at the Frank Russell Company, that adhere to local regulation and operate under locally approved risk and investment policies.
The Financial Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Executive Committee and chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets monthly to oversee the consolidated financial risks of the Group.
In addition, the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Financial Risk Committee which is also chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets regularly to monitor the management of and controls around foreign exchange, interest rates, credit and concentration risks and the investment of excess liquidity in addition to its oversight of the Groups funding arrangements.
Both committees provide the Groups senior management with assurance that the treasury and risk operations are performed in accordance with Group Board approved policies and procedures.
Regular updates, on a range of key criteria as well as new developments, are provided through the Enterprise Risk Management Framework to the Group Risk Committee.
See Risk Management Oversight, pages 50-53, for further detail on the Groups risk framework.
Capital risk Risk description Risk management approach The Group is profitable and strongly cash generative The Group focuses upon its overall cost of capital as it seeks, within the scope of its risk appetite, to provide superior and its capital base comprises equity and debt capital.
returns to its shareholders, fulfil its obligations to the relevant regulatory authorities and other stakeholders and ensure that it is not overly dependent upon short and medium term debt that might not be available at renewal.
Maintaining However, the Group recognises the risk that its entities the flexibility to invest for growth is a key capital management consideration.
may not maintain sufficient capital to meet their obligations or they may make investments that fail to As at 31 December 2014, the book value of the Groups consolidated equity before non-controlling interests was generate a positive or value enhancing return.
2,526.5 million 31 March 2014: 1,565 million and the book value of its consolidated debt was 1,726.4 million 31 March 2014: 1,223.7 million.
The Group can manage its capital structure and react to changes in economic The Group comprises regulated and unregulated conditions by varying returns to shareholders, issuing new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
It considers that: reviews dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group maintains comfortable levels of debt increases in the capital requirements of its facility headroom.
regulated companies, or negative yields on its investments of cash, or Whilst the Company is unregulated, the regulated entities within the Group continuously monitor compliance with the a scarcity of debt or equity driven by its own capital requirements set by their respective competent authorities and the terms of reference of the Financial Risk performance or financial market conditions Committee includes oversight of the Groups Capital Management Policy.
The Capital Management Policy seeks to ensure that compliance with local regulations is maintained and that there is a robust evaluation, undertaken by the Groups either separately or in combination are the principal Investment Committee, of the impact of new investments, across the Group, on its capital position.
Regulated entities risks to managing its capital.
within the Group have to date predominantly issued equity and hold cash to satisfy their local regulatory capital requirements and, as at 31 December 2014, 1,011.3 million of cash and cash equivalents was held to meet regulatory and operational requirements across these entities 31 March 2014: 803.6 million.
This amount increased during the period as a result of the inclusion of Frank Russell Companys cash and cash equivalents held predominantly to meet the regulatory requirements of its investment management business, in addition to LCH.
Clearnet Groups total cash and cash equivalents, and maintaining the 200 million generally set aside by other Group operations.
We believe that Group companies cash and cash equivalents are sufficient to comfortably support current regulatory frameworks.
The level of cash set aside by the Group for these purposes remains subject to on-going review with regulators, particularly in Europe and the USA.
To maintain the financial strength to access new capital at reasonable cost and sustain an investment grade credit rating, the Group monitors its net leverage ratio which is operating net debt i. e. net debt excluding cash and cash equivalents set aside for regulatory and operational purposes to adjusted EBITDA Group consolidated earnings before net finance charges, taxation, impairment, depreciation and amortisation and non-recurring items against a target range of 1-2 times.
The Group is also mindful of potential impacts on the key metrics employed by the credit rating agencies in considering increases to its borrowings.
To underpin its financial flexibility and protect its investment grade credit rating, the Group raised over 960 million before associated costs from shareholders during the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 through a Rights Issue.
This provided a balance to the new debt also raised in the period to appropriately fund the acquisition of Frank Russell Company, pushing net leverage up towards 2.4 times in early December 2014.
As at 31 December 2014 net leverage had reduced back to 2.1 times March 2014: 1.9 times, a little above the top end of the Groups target range.
The Group is comfortably in compliance with its bank facility ratio covenants net leverage and debt service and these measures do not inhibit the Groups operations or its financing plans.
128 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Credit and concentration risk Risk description Risk management approach In their roles as central counterparty CCP clearers CCPs to financial market participants, the Groups CCPs To address the market participant and latent market risk, the Groups CCPs have established financial safeguards guarantee final settlement of transactions acting as against single or multiple defaults.
Clearing membership selection is based upon supervisory capital, technical and buyer towards each seller and as seller towards each organisational criteria.
Each member must pay margins, computed and collected at least daily, to cover the exposures buyer.
They manage substantial credit risks as part of and theoretical costs which the CCP would incur in order to close out open positions in the event of the members their operations including unmatched risk positions default.
Margins are calculated using established and internationally acknowledged risk models and are debited from that might arise from the default of a party to a cleared participants accounts through central bank accounts and via commercial bank payment systems.
For more information see Principal Risk cash collateral are required and non-cash collateral is re-valued daily.
As at 31 December 2014, the total aggregate and Uncertainties, pages 54-61. margin liability of clearing members amounted to 70.6 billion 31 March 2014: 68.3 billion, against which the Group had received 38.8 billion in cash 31 March 2014: 35.8 billion and 31.8 billion in non-cash securities 31 March 2014: Notwithstanding regulations in Europe and the US 34.4 billion.
The maximum aggregate margin liability during the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 was 80.1 that require CCPs to invest predominantly in secured billion year to 31 March 2014: 77.2 billion.
instruments or structures such as government bonds and reverse repos, CC&G and the LCH.
Clearnet Group Clearing members also contribute to default funds managed by the CCPs to guarantee the integrity of the markets in CCPs continue to be able to invest up to 5 per cent of the event of multiple defaults in extreme market circumstances.
Amounts are determined on the basis of the results of their margin and default fund cash unsecured.
Through periodic stress testing examined by the risk committees of the respective CCPs.
As at 31 December 2014, the total this potential unsecured investment by its CCPs as aggregate of clearing member contributions to the default funds amounted to 10.3 billion in aggregate across the well as by certain other regulated and unregulated Groups CCPs 31 March 2014: 9.0 billion.
The maximum aggregate amount during the 9 month period to 31 operations observing agreed investment policy limits, December 2014 was 10.6 billion year to 31 March 2014: 9.1 billion.
Furthermore, each of the Groups CCPs has the Group will continue to face the risk of direct loss recently reinforced its capital position to meet the more stringent regulatory requirements applicable to it, including from a deterioration or failure of one or more of its holding a minimum amount of dedicated own resources to further underpin the protective credit risk framework in the unsecured investment counterparties.
event of a significant market stress event or participant failure.
Concentration risk may arise through Group entities Investment counterparty risk for CCP margin and default funds is managed by investing the cash element in having large individual or connected exposures to instruments or structures deemed secure by the relevant regulatory bodies including through direct investments in groups of counterparties whose likelihood of default highly rated, regulatory qualifying sovereign bonds and supra-national debt, investments in tri-party and bi-lateral is driven by common underlying factors.
This is a reverse repos receiving high quality government securities as collateral which are subject to a haircut on their market particular focus of the investment approach at the value and, in certain jurisdictions, deposits with the central bank.
The small proportion of cash that is invested Groups CCPs.
unsecured is placed for short durations with highly rated counterparties where strict limits are applied with respect to credit quality, concentration and tenor.
The investment portfolio at 31 December 2014 totalled 43.5 billion in More broadly, the Groups credit risk relates to its aggregate 31 March 2014: 47.4 billion, of which a weighted average 99.1 per cent 31 March 2014: 99.7 per cent was customers and counterparties being unable to meet invested securely with an overall maturity of 85 days 31 March 2014: 87 days, including material amounts invested their obligations to the Group either in part or in full, over a very short timeframe to support liquidity needs.
The maximum portfolio size during the 9 month period to 31 including: December 2014 was 51.6 billion year to 31 March 2014: 54.1 billion.
Associated liquidity risks are considered in the customer receivables investment mix and discussed further below.
repayment of invested cash and cash equivalents settlement of derivative financial instruments To address concentration risk, the Group maintains a diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid investments and uses a broad range of custodians, payment and settlement banks and agents.
The largest concentration of treasury exposures as at 31 December 2014 was 11.4 per cent of the total investment portfolio to the US Government 31 March 2014: 10.4 per cent to the French Government.
Group Credit risk is controlled through policies developed at a Group level.
Group companies make a judgement on the credit quality of their customers based upon the customers financial position, the recurring nature of billing and collection arrangements and, historically, a low incidence of default.
Furthermore, the Group is exposed to a large number of customers and so concentration risk on its receivables is deemed by management as low.
Credit risk of cash and cash equivalents is managed by limiting the exposure to credit rating reference points potentially overlaid by a default probability assessment.
Up to 50 million can be invested for up to 12 months with counterparties rated long term AAA or equivalent through to a maximum 25 million overnight with counterparties rated short term A-2 or equivalent.
Derivative transactions and other treasury receivable structures are undertaken or agreed with well capitalised counterparties and are authorised by policy, to limit the credit risk underlying these transactions.
The Frank Russell Company does not guarantee the performance of its investment management business.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 129 Country risk Risk description Risk management approach Distress can result from the risk that certain governments Specific risk frameworks manage country risk for both fixed income clearing and margin collateral and all clearing may be unable or find it difficult to service their debts.
members are monitored regularly against a suite of sovereign stress scenarios.
Investment limits and counterparty and This could have adverse effects, particularly on the Groups clearing membership monitoring are sensitive to changes in ratings and other financial market indicators, to ensure the CCPs, potentially impacting cleared products, margin Groups CCPs are able to measure, monitor and mitigate exposures to sovereign risk and respond quickly to anticipated collateral, investments, the clearing membership and changes.
Risk Committees maintain an on-going watch over these risks and the associated policy frameworks to the financial industry as a whole.
protect the Group against potentially severe volatility in the sovereign debt markets.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group has material investments of 1 billion or more in aggregate in the following sovereigns: Group Aggregate Sovereign Treasury Exposures 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Country billion billion USA 5.8 3.9 France 5.0 4.9 Italy 3.7 4.5 Germany 2.2 1.5 Spain 1.6 nil Belgium 1.5 2.2 Liquidity, settlement and custodial risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups operations are exposed to liquidity risk to the Group businesses are profitable, generate strong free cash flow and operations are not significantly impacted by extent that they are unable to meet their daily payment seasonal variations.
The Group maintains sufficient liquid resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and obligations.
to invest in capital expenditure, make dividend payments, support acquisitions or repay borrowings.
With the exception of regulatory constraints impacting the Groups CCPs, the Frank Russell Company investment management businesses In addition, the Groups CCPs, the Frank Russell Company and certain other regulated entities, funds can generally be lent across the Group or remitted through dividend payments investment management businesses and certain other and this is an important component of the Group Treasury cash management policy and approach.
subsidiary companies are required to maintain a level of liquidity consistent with regulatory requirements to Management monitors forecasts of the Groups cash flow and overlays sensitivities to these forecasts to reflect ensure the smooth operation of their respective markets assumptions about more difficult market conditions.
and to maintain operations in the event of a single or multiple market stress event or member failure.
This Treasury policy requires that the Group maintains adequate credit facilities provided by a diversified lending group to cover includes the potential requirement to liquidate the its expected funding requirements and ensure a minimum level of headroom for at least the next 24 months.
The financial position of a clearing member under a default scenario strength of lenders to the Group is monitored regularly.
During the 9 month period to 31 December 2014, new, committed, including covering the associated losses and the revolving credit facilities totalling 600 million were arranged by the Company to underpin the Groups financial flexibility.
settlement obligations of the defaulting member.
The new facilities bolster facility headroom over the medium term moving the Groups average drawn debt maturity profile to three and a half years: the next scheduled debt maturity is in July 2016.
At 31 December 2014, and having completed The Group is exposed to the risk that a payment or the $2.7 billion acquisition of Frank Russell Company, 510.9 million of the Groups facilities were unutilised.
settlement bank could fail or that its systems encounter operational issues, creating liquidity pressures and the risk The Groups CCPs maintain sufficient cash and cash equivalents and, in certain jurisdictions, have access to central bank of possible defaults on payment or receivable obligations.
refinancing or commercial bank liquidity support credit lines to meet the cash requirements of the clearing and settlement cycle.
Revised regulations require CCPs to arrange appropriate levels of back up liquidity to underpin the The Group uses third party custodians to hold securities dynamics of a largely secured cash investment requirement, ensuring that the maximum potential outflow under and is therefore exposed to the custodians insolvency, extreme market conditions is covered see Credit and concentration risk section above.
The Groups CCPs monitor its negligence, a misuse of assets or poor administration.
their liquidity needs daily under stressed and unstressed assumptions.
In addition, certain Group companies, including the CCPs, maintain operational support facilities from banks to manage intraday and overnight liquidity.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Where possible, the Group employs guaranteed delivery versus payment settlement techniques and manages CCP margin and default fund flows through central bank or long-established, bespoke commercial bank settlement mechanisms.
Monies due from clearing members remain the clearing members liability if the payment agent is unable to effect the appropriate transfer.
Custodians are subject to minimum eligibility requirements and ongoing credit assessment, robust contractual arrangements and are required to have appropriate back-up contingency arrangements in place.
At 31 December 2014 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years m m m m Borrowings 832.3 107.9 728.6 314.3 Trade and other payables 727.4 CCP liabilities 451,467.5 453,027.2 107.9 728.6 314.3 At 31 March 2014 Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years m m m m Borrowings 312.6 109.0 487.5 564.3 Trade and other payables 401.5 CCP liabilities 503,747.4 Derivative financial instruments 3.4 4.0 504,464.9 109.0 487.5 568.3 The prior year borrowings have been adjusted to include interest payable on the debt that is not accrued.
130 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Market risk Foreign Exchange Risk description Risk management approach The Group extended its geographic footprint during the The Group seeks, where it can, to match the currency of its debt liabilities to the currency of its earnings whilst 9 month period to 31 December 2014 and now operates endeavouring to balance the currency of its assets with the currency of its liabilities.
The Group reinforces this primarily in the UK, North America and Europe, has methodology by regularly distributing its currency cash earnings in dividends and by absorbing currency earnings growing and strategically important businesses in Asia, whilst protecting sterling earnings through interest payments on sterling debt, re-denominated through the use and other alliances and investments across the globe.
of cross-currency swaps, or by arranging debt in the same currency, where this is practicable.
A proportion of the Its principal currencies of operation are sterling, Group's debt is held in or swapped into euro and a proportion is held in US dollars.
As at 31 December 2014, 140.2 US dollars and the euro.
million of drawn debt was euro denominated 31 March 2014: 400.5 million and 389.5 million 31 March 2014: 248.5 million of cross-currency swaps, directly linked to sterling debt, were designated as a hedge of the net With the exception of MillenniumIT a Sri Lankan Rupee investment in the Italian Group.
As at 31 December 2014, 662.1 million of drawn debt was US dollar denominated reporting entity, which invoices a material proportion 31 March 2014: nil and provided a hedge of the net investment in the Frank Russell Company.
A profit of 13.0 of its revenues in US dollars, and LCH.
Clearnet Limited a million for the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 year to 31 March 2014: profit of 4.3 million on foreign euro reporting entity, which incurs a majority of its costs currency borrowings, inter company loan assets and liabilities and cross-currency swap hedges was recognised in sterling, Group companies generally invoice revenues, in equity.
The net investment hedges were fully effective.
incur expenses and purchase assets in their respective local currencies.
As a result, foreign exchange risk arises Whilst transactional foreign exchange exposure is limited, the Group hedges material transactions in accordance mainly from the translation of the Groups foreign with Group Treasury policy which requires that cash flows of more than 1 million or equivalent per annum should currency earnings, assets and liabilities into its reporting be hedged with appropriate derivative instruments or by settling currency payables or receivables within a short currency, sterling, and from occasional, high value timeframe.
Hedge accounting of derivatives is considered to mitigate material levels of income statement volatility.
In addition to projecting and analysing its earnings and debt profile by currency, the Group reviews sensitivities Intragroup dividends may create short term transactional to movements in exchange rates which are appropriate to market conditions.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group FX exposures but play their part in controlling the level of has considered movements in the euro and the US dollar over the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 and has translational FX exposures the Group faces.
concluded that a 10 per cent movement in rates is a reasonable level to measure the risk to the Group.
At 31 December 2014, if sterling had weakened or strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro and or the US dollar The Group may be exposed from time to time to strategic with all other variables held constant, the impact on post tax profit for the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 investments in currencies other than sterling.
and on equity at the 31 December 2014 is set out, with comparatives, in the table below: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Post tax profit Equity Post tax profit Equity m m m m Euro Sterling weaken 4.3 14.2 0.3 19.0 Sterling strengthen 3.9 12.4 0.4 23.2 US Sterling weaken 2.8 58.7 dollar Sterling strengthen 2.6 53.3 This reflects foreign exchange gains or losses on translation of euro and US dollar denominated trade receivables, trade payables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss including euro and US dollar denominated cash and borrowings.
If the average sterling exchange rate for the 9 month period to 31 December 2014 had moved 10 euro cents against the euro, this would have changed the Groups operating profit for the year before amortisation of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items by up to 19.1 million.
Market risk Cash Flow and Fair Value Interest Rate Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Groups interest rate risk arises through the impact Group interest rate management policy focuses on protecting the Groups credit rating.
It specifies a minimum of changes in market rates on cash flows associated coverage of interest expense by EBITDA to be maintained of 7 times and a maximum floating rate component with cash and cash equivalents, investments in of 50 per cent of total debt.
This approach reflects i a focus on the Groups cost of debt rather than its net debt financial assets and borrowings held at floating rates.
given the material cash and cash equivalents held specifically for regulatory purposes, ii the short duration allowed for investments of cash and cash equivalents held for regulatory purposes which, by their nature, The Groups CCPs face interest rate exposure through generate low investment yields, iii a view that already low market yields are unlikely to move materially lower the impact of changes in the reference rates used to and iv the broad natural hedge of floating rate borrowings provided by the significant balances of cash and calculate member liabilities versus the yields achieved cash equivalents held effectively at floating rates of interest.
As at 31 December 2014, interest expense cover was measured over the 12 month period to 31 December 2014 at 9.4 times 31 March 2014: 8.0 times and the floating rate component of total debt was 46 per cent.
In the Groups CCPs, interest bearing assets are generally invested for a longer term than interest bearing liabilities, whose interest rate is reset daily.
This makes investment revenue vulnerable to volatility in overnight rates and shifts in spreads between overnight and term rates.
Interest rate exposures and the risk to CCP capital are managed within defined risk appetite parameters against which sensitivities are monitored daily.
In its review of the sensitivities to potential movements in interest rates, the Group has considered interest rate volatility over the last year and prospects for rates over the next 12 months and has concluded that a 1 percentage point upward movement with a limited prospect of material downward movement reflects a reasonable level of risk to current rates.
At 31 December 2014, at the Group level, if interest rates on sterlingdenominated, euro-denominated and US dollar-denominated cash and borrowings had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would actually have been 1.5 million higher 31 March 2014: 6.5 million higher mainly as a result of higher interest income on floating rate cash and cash equivalents partially offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2014, at the CCP level in aggregate, if interest rates on the common interest bearing member liability benchmarks of Eonia, Fed Funds and Sonia, for euro, US dollar and sterling liabilities respectively, had been 1 percentage point higher, with all other variables held constant, the daily impact on post-tax profit for the Group would have been 1.0 million lower 31 March 2014: 0.8 million lower.
This deficit would be recovered as investment yields increase as the portfolio matures and is re-invested.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 131 Market risk Other Price Risk Risk description Risk management approach The Frank Russell Company investment management The Group announced on 5 February 2015 that it intends to sell the investment management business of Frank business has material funds under management.
Russell Company in its entirety with a sale process commencing directly.
Other price risk arises if, as a result of changes in At 31 December 2014, 67 per cent of the Frank Russell Company investment management businesss assets market prices, the fair value or cash flows associated under management was invested in equities and alternatives.
If the value of these assets had decreased by 10 with Frank Russell Companys managed financial per cent, Frank Russell Companys total Net Investment Management Revenue for its year to 31 December instruments fluctuates and potentially decline 2014 would have seen a corresponding fall of approximately 29 million.
Significant judgements and estimates Judgements and estimates are regularly evaluated based on historical experience, current circumstances and expectations of future events.
The significant judgements and estimates for the period ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: Goodwill tested for impairment annually.
The recoverable amounts of relevant cash generating units are based on value in use calculations using managements best estimate of future performance and estimates of the return required by investors to determine an appropriate discount rate.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 14: Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination valued on acquisition using appropriate methodologies and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives.
These valuations and lives are based on managements best estimates of future performance and periods over which value from the intangible assets is realised: Defined benefit pension asset or liability determined based on the present value of future pension obligations using assumptions determined by the Group with advice from an independent qualified actuary.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in note 18: and Fair value measurement of financial instruments Level 3 The inputs used in estimating the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments include expected timing and level of future cash flows, timing of settlement, discount rates and net asset values of certain investments.
The Group holds investments in preferred securities and investment funds for which there is no active market.
These interests, in the absence of a recent and relevant secondary market transaction, are classified as Level 3 because the valuations require significant levels of management judgement.
Segmental Information The Group is organised into operating units based on its service lines and has seven reportable segments.
The executive committee monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segmental disclosures for the period ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: Post Trade Post Trade Services Services Capital CC&G and LCH.
Information Technology Investment Markets Monte Titoli Clearnet Services Services Management Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 249.1 71.5 238.7 281.0 47.3 79.7 4.1 971.4 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 7.1 8.0 Revenue 249.1 72.4 238.7 281.0 54.4 79.7 4.1 8.0 971.4 Net treasury income through CCP business 23.2 45.9 69.1 Other income 0.1 3.4 3.5 Total income 249.1 95.6 284.7 281.0 54.4 79.7 7.5 8.0 1,044.0 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures associates 0.1 0.1 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 125.2 47.1 81.4 145.1 4.6 9.7 4.3 0.2 417.6 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 92.6 Impairment of purchased intangibles and goodwill 22.0 Non-recurring items 60.9 Operating profit 242.1 Net finance expense 51.1 Profit before taxation 191.0 Other income statement items Depreciation and software amortisation 9.5 4.1 19.9 8.8 2.0 0.6 0.2 1.4 43.7 Revenue from external customers principally comprises fees for services rendered 920.0 million year ended 31 March 2014: 1,019.6 million and Technology Services 47.3 million year ended 31 March 2014: 64.0 million.
132 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The acquisition of Frank Russell Company resulted in two identifiable cash generating units within the business.
Those being Information Services, which was combined into the existing operating segment within the Group, and Investment Management which was recognised in its own segment.
com which was acquired during the period was combined within the Capital Markets segment.
Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli, saw an expected decline in net treasury income due to a complete period of being required to hold a minimum 95 per cent secured investment portfolio, partially offset by a modest increase in revenue resulting in total income decreasing to 95.6 million year ended 31 March 2014: 146.9 million.
Net treasury income through CCP business of 69.1 million year ended 31 March 2014: 109.8 million comprises gross interest income of 127.0 million year ended 31 March 2014: 261.1 million less gross interest expense of 57.9 million year ended 31 March 2014: 151.3 million.
Interest from investment in securities amount to 21.4 million year ended 31 March 2014: 34.8 million.
Comparative segmental disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows: Post Trade Services CC&G Post Trade Capital and Monte Services LCH.
Information Technology Markets Titoli Clearnet Services Services Other Eliminations Group m m m m m m m m Revenue from external customers 309.5 98.4 263.0 348.7 64.0 4.7 1,088.3 Inter-segmental revenue 0.9 10.9 11.8 Revenue 309.5 99.3 263.0 348.7 74.9 4.7 11.8 1,088.3 Net treasury income through CCP business 47.6 62.2 109.8 Other income 3.5 15.0 11.5 Total income 309.5 146.9 321.7 348.7 74.9 19.7 11.8 1,209.6 Operating profit before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items 144.7 83.5 81.1 169.7 11.8 8.7 11.7 511.2 Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 116.5 Non-recurring income 41.6 Operating profit 353.1 Net finance expense 68.8 Profit before taxation 284.3 Other income statement items: Depreciation and software amortisation 25.3 5.5 23.0 15.6 5.3 0.2 12.6 62.3 Geographical disclosure Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Revenue UK 564.9 659.5 Italy 214.8 283.5 France 76.5 87.0 USA 49.8 Other 65.4 58.3 Total 971.4 1,088.3 Revenue has been restated to be allocated based on the location of the group entity which earns the revenue which better represents our operating reviews.
31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Total assets UK 143,498.8 183,570.2 Italy 129,079.4 141,116.3 France 182,027.6 182,593.1 USA 3,109.5 Other 282.3 577.3 Total 457,997.6 507,856.9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 133 6.
Expenses by nature Expenses comprise the following: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Cost of sales 101.5 74.1 Employee costs 261.7 303.9 Depreciation and non-acquisition software amortisation 43.7 62.3 Impairment and amortisation of purchased intangibles assets and non-recurring costs 175.5 158.1 IT costs 93.6 92.0 Other costs 126.0 166.1 Total expenses 802.0 856.5 Foreign exchange gains or losses included in the income statement are immaterial.
Employee costs Employee costs comprise the following: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Notes m m Salaries and other short term benefits 210.9 237.6 Social security costs 33.4 37.4 Pension costs 18 13.1 17.3 Share based compensation 4.3 11.6 Total 261.7 303.9 The average number of employees in the Group was: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 UK 1,504 1,329 Italy 537 503 France 174 205 Sri Lanka 688 659 USA 1,312 55 Other 477 96 Total 4,692 2,847 The Company has no employees.
Average is calculated from date of acquisition of the subsidiary company by the Group.
134 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Restated Notes m m Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 14 92.6 116.5 Transaction costs 54.6 14.9 Transaction credit 2.4 Restructuring costs 0.9 28.8 Restructuring credit 3.8 Integration costs 11.6 Pension curtailment credit 2.1 Impairment of purchased intangibles and goodwill 14 22.0 Total affecting operating profit 175.5 158.1 Charge for new transaction related revolving credit facility 1.8 Total affecting profit before tax 177.3 158.1 Tax effect on items affecting profit before tax Deferred tax on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 33.1 27.1 Current tax on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 1.4 2.2 Tax effect on other items affecting profit before tax 6.3 9.1 Total tax effect on items affecting profit before tax 40.8 38.4 Total charge to income statement 136.5 119.7 Transaction costs comprise charges incurred for ongoing services related to potential or completed acquisitions.
The transaction credit relates to a reduction in obligations arising from the acquisition of LCH.
The restructuring credit relates to contributions made by third parties to cover restructuring costs incurred in previous periods.
Restructuring and integration costs principally relate to the acquisition, restructuring and integration of LCH.
Clearnet and Frank Russell Company.
Of the impairment recognised during the period, 21.8 million relates to licenses belonging to a cash generating unit within LCH.
Clearnets business in the USA, that was recognised on the acquisition of the LCH.
Following a review it was determined that the cash flows required to maintain the current valuation are too uncertain.
Consequently, it was considered appropriate to impair the asset.
The Group remains committed to developing the business to provide clearing services in the USA and continues to investigate all opportunities as they arise.
The remaining 0.2 million relates to the goodwill on EDX London Limited.
Following the transfer of the UK derivatives business to its parent company, the remaining goodwill allocated to the business was impaired.
Net finance expense Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Notes m m Finance income Bank deposit and other interest income 1.8 5.2 Other finance income 0.5 0.3 2.3 5.5 Finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 49.2 71.2 Defined benefit pension scheme interest cost 18 0.5 0.8 Other finance expenses 1.9 2.3 Non-recurring credit facility arrangement fees 1.8 53.4 74.3 Net finance expense 51.1 68.8 Net finance expense includes amounts earned from clearing members cash collateral deposits which attract negative interest rates and amounts where the Group earns negative interest in its cash deposits.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 135 10.
Taxation The standard UK corporation tax rate was 21 per cent 23 per cent for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Period ended Year ended Taxation charged to the income statement 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Restated Notes m m Current tax: UK corporation tax for the period 45.4 43.5 Overseas tax for the period 48.4 77.6 Adjustments in respect of previous years 9.6 1.2 84.2 119.9 Deferred tax: 17 Deferred tax for the period 3.0 4.7 Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.4 1.8 Deferred tax liability on amortisation and impairment of purchased intangible assets 33.2 27.1 Taxation charge 53.6 86.3 The adjustments in respect of previous years' corporation tax are mainly in respect of tax returns agreed with relevant tax authorities.
Period ended Year ended Taxation on items not credited charged to income statement 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Current tax credit: Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 2.8 3.5 Gain on cash flow hedges 17.2 Deferred tax loss credit: Defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement 0.7 1.7 Tax allowance on share options awards in excess of expense recognised 1.5 1.0 Movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.9 0.7 Adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.6 11.3 1.5 Factors affecting the tax charge for the period The income statement tax charge for the period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21 per cent year ended 31 March 2014: 23 per cent as explained below: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Restated m m Profit before taxation 191.0 284.3 Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 40.1 65.4 Expenses not deductible 9.4 2.7 Adjustment arising from change in UK tax rate 0.8 2.4 Overseas earnings taxed at higher rate 25.2 19.1 Adjustments in respect of previous years 10.0 3.0 Amortisation and impairment of purchased intangibles 9.2 0.3 Deferred tax previously not recognised 2.7 Taxation charge 53.6 86.3 136 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Earnings per share Earnings per share is presented on four bases: basic earnings per share: diluted earnings per share: adjusted basic earnings per share: and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Basic earnings per share is in respect of all activities and diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilution effects which would arise on conversion or vesting of share options and share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
Adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share exclude amortisation of purchased intangible assets, non-recurring items and unrealised gains and losses to enable a better comparison of the underlying earnings of the business with prior periods.
Year ended Period ended 31 March 31 December 2014 2014 Restated Basic earnings per share 37.9p 63.0p Diluted earnings per share 37.4p 61.9p Adjusted basic earnings per share 75.6p 98.6p Adjusted diluted earnings per share 74.7p 96.9p Earnings per share for the year ended 31 March 2014 has been restated for the prior year adjustment Note 2 and the Rights Issue on 11 September 2014 Note 28.
Profit and adjusted profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent: Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 123.0 184.9 Total profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent for basic earnings Adjustments: Amortisation and non recurring items: Amortisation of purchased intangible assets 92.6 116.5 Transaction costs 54.6 14.9 Transaction credit 2.4 Restructuring costs 0.9 28.8 Restructuring credit 3.8 Pension curtailment costs 2.1 Integration costs 11.6 Impairment of purchased intangibles and goodwill 22.0 Charge for new revolving credit facility 1.8 Other adjusting items: Unrealised net investment gain loss included in other income 0.1 3.5 Tax effect of amortisation and impairment of purchased intangibles and non-recurring items 40.8 38.4 Tax effect of other adjusting items 1.2 Amortisation, non-recurring and adjusting items, and taxation attributable to non-controlling interests 13.8 17.6 Adjusted profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders 245.6 289.3 Weighted average number of shares million 324.7 293.3 Effect of dilutive share options and awards million 4.2 5.2 Diluted weighted average number of shares million 328.9 298.5 The weighted average number of shares excludes those held in the ESOP.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 137 12.
Dividends Period ended Year ended 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Final dividend for 31 March 2014 paid 19 August 2014: 20.7p per Ordinary share 2013: 19.8p 56.2 53.5 Interim dividend for 31 March 2014 paid 6 January 2014: 10.1p per Ordinary share 27.3 56.2 80.8 The Board has proposed a final dividend in respect of the period ended 31 December 2014 of 12.8p per share, which is estimated to amount to 44.4 million, to be paid in June 2015.
The approved interim dividend in respect of the period ended 30 September 2014 of 9.7p per share amounting to 33.6 million and was paid on 5 January 2015.
Neither of these dividends are reflected in this financial information.
The Company has no property, plant and equipment.
138 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
The goodwill arising on consolidation represents the growth potential and assembled workforces of the Frank Russell Group, Italian Group, LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise.
The Company has no intangible assets.
The acquisition of the Frank Russell Group and Bonds.
com Group resulted in an increase of goodwill in the Group of 484.7 million in the period.
This value is preliminary and will be finalised during the following year.
During the period, additions relating to internally generated software was 48.5 million 31 March 2014: 106.8 million.
The carrying value of licenses held under finance leases at 31 December 2014 was 1.4 million 31 March 2014: nil.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 139 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to 10 cash generating units CGUs, including the CGUs resulting from the acquisition of the Frank Russell Group.
The recoverable amounts of these CGUs have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted cash flow projections prepared by management covering the five year period ending 31 December 2019.
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using the estimated long term growth rates and applying the pre-tax discount rates referred to below.
The amount of the net book value of goodwill allocated to each CGU is set out below.
Net book value of goodwill Pre-tax discount 31 March rate used in 2014 Acquisitions of Foreign 31 December value in use restated subsidiaries Impairment exchange 2014 calculations m m m m m Italian Group: Capital Markets 234.7 8.7 14.0 229.4 11.0% Information Services 166.6 9.6 157.0 11.3% Technology Services 31.3 1.8 29.5 11.2% Post Trade Services 357.5 15.3 342.2 11.2% MillenniumIT 1.3 0.1 1.4 16.6% Turquoise 7.6 7.6 10.6% FTSE Group 186.4 1.2 187.6 7.1% LCH.
Clearnet Group 117.1 6.5 110.6 8.9% Frank Russell Group Information Services 333.4 1.5 334.9 N A Investment Management 142.6 0.5 143.1 N A EDX London Ltd 0.2 0.2 N A 1,102.7 484.7 0.2 43.9 1,543.3 Management has based its value in use calculations for each CGU on key assumptions about short and medium term revenue and cost growth, long term economic growth rates used to determine terminal values and pre-tax discount rates.
The values assigned to short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions reflect current trends, anticipated market and regulatory developments, discussions with customers and suppliers, and managements experience, taking into account an expected further recovery in underlying financial markets.
Long term growth rates assumed to be 1.7 per cent for each of the Italian CGUs, 4.0 per cent for MillenniumIT, 3.5 per cent for Turquoise and the FTSE Group, and 2.6 per cent for the LCH.
Clearnet Group represent managements internal forecasts based on external estimates of GDP and inflation for the 16 year period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2019, and do not exceed the long term average growth rates for the countries in which the CGUs operate.
Pre-tax discount rates are based on a number of factors including the risk-free rates in Italy, France, Sri Lanka, USA and the UK as appropriate, the Groups estimated market risk premium and a premium to reflect the inherent risks of each of the CGUs.
Based on the results of the impairment tests performed management believes there is no impairment of the carrying value of the goodwill in any CGU with the exception of EDX.
140 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Value in use calculations for each CGU are sensitive to changes in short and medium term revenue and cost growth assumptions, long term growth rates and pre-tax discount rates.
The impact on value in use of reasonable changes in these assumptions is shown below: Impact on value in use of: Excess of 0.5% reduction 0.5% increase value in use over 5% reduction in 5% increase in long-term in pre-tax carrying value revenues in costs growth rate discount rate m m m m m Italian group: Capital Markets 430.2 32.5 78.4 49.3 44.7 Information Services 77.0 10.6 19.2 13.7 11.7 Technology Services 53.3 0.3 8.1 4.0 3.5 Post Trade Services 251.3 83.6 46.7 39.1 34.0 Management believes goodwill allocated to the Frank Russell Group, LCH.
Clearnet Group, FTSE Group, MillenniumIT and Turquoise CGUs is unlikely to be materially impaired under any reasonable changes to key assumptions.
The excess of value in use over carrying value is determined by reference to the net book value as at 31 December 2014.
Revenue and cost sensitivities assume a five per cent change in revenues or costs for each of the five years in the value in use calculations.
Investment in associates The following table illustrates the summarised financial information of the Groups investment in associates.
Company m 1 April 2013 0.6 Disposal 0.3 31 March 2014 0.3 Acquisition of associates 11.9 Share of profit 0.1 Share of capital decrease and dividend distribution 0.2 31 December 2014 12.1 The Groups share of the results of its principal associate, is its interest in Ping AN Russell Investment Management Shanghai Co Limited.
The principal activities of the associate includes undertaking research, development and promotion, as well as providing investment consultation, investment management and investment plan implementation and execution services.
The financial information relating to the Groups share of its principal associate is listed below: Profit loss Country of Assets Liabilities Revenues after tax % interest incorporation m m m m held Ping AN Russell Investment Management Shanghai Co Limited China 17.0 4.3 0.5 0.1 49.0 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Group financial statements Notes to the financial statements 141 16.
Investment in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Other Total Company m m m m 1 April 2013 3,320.6 380.4 78.1 3,779.1 Capital contribution to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings I Ltd 460.4 460.4 Impairment of London Stock Exchange Group Holdings R Ltd 10.6 10.6 Other movements during the year 380.4 10.4 370.0 31 March 2014 3,310.0 548.9 3,858.9 Capital contribution to LSEGH US Holdco Inc. 441.1 441.1 Capital contribution to LSEGH Luxembourg Ltd 581.8 581.8 Other movements during the period 7.3 7.3 31 December 2014 3,891.8 997.3 4,889.1 Country of Country of principal % equity and Principal subsidiaries: Principal activity incorporation operations votes held Held directly by the Company: London Stock Exchange plc Recognised investment exchange UK UK 100 Held indirectly by the Company: BIt Market Services S. p. A.
Retail information services & Italy Italy 99.99 market technology Borsa Italiana S. p. A. Recognised investment exchange Italy Italy 99.99 Cassa di Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. CCP for clearing Italy Italy 99.99 FTSE International Ltd Market indices provider UK UK 100 LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited CCP clearing services UK UK 57.80 Monte Titoli S. p. A. Pre-settlement, settlement and Italy Italy 98.80 centralised custody Millennium Information Technologies Software Ltd IT solutions provider Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 100 Societa per il Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A.
Wholesale fixed income bonds Italy Italy 60.37 Turquoise Global Holdings Ltd Multi-lateral trading facility UK UK 51.36 Frank Russell Company Global asset manager USA USA 100 and index business On 2 December 2014, the Group entered into a transaction that resulted in the Group acquiring a 100 per cent stake in Frank Russell Company for a total consideration of 1,678.5 million.
On 8 May 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of Bonds.
com, resulting in a majority stake of 60.37 per cent in the company for a consideration of 8.8 million.
Under Regulation 7 of The Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008, the Group elected not to prepare partnership accounts for its indirect partnership interest in London Stock Exchange Connectivity Solutions LP, as its results are contained in the consolidated group accounts.
A full list of subsidiaries will be annexed to the next annual return of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
142 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited is the only subsidiary that has material non-controlling interests within the Group.
Financial information relating to this subsidiary is provided below: Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interests 329.3 342.5 Losses profits allocated to material non-controlling interests 13.2 3.0 Accumulated balances included goodwill, purchased intangibles and associated amortisation and impairments attributable to non-controlling interests.
The summarised financial information of LCH.
Clearnet Group is provided below.
This information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations.
Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 Summarised statement of profit and loss m m Revenue 238.5 262.0 Profit for the period 27.6 33.3 Total comprehensive income 30.7 38.8 Attributable to non-controlling interests 13.0 16.4 Dividends paid to non controlling interests Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 Summarised statement of financial position m m Non-current assets 219.1 268.6 Current assets 325,870.2 369,397.4 Current liabilities 325,270.7 368,851.4 Non-current liabilities 166.9 152.9 Total equity 651.7 661.7 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 376.7 382.5 Non-controlling interests 275.0 279.2 Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 47.7 603.6 LCH.
Clearnet Group was acquired on 1 May 2013.
Their results have been incorporated from that date.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 143 17.
Deferred tax The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Acquisition Provisions and Accelerated tax deferred tax and other temporary depreciation amortisation differences Total Group m m m m 31 March 2013 1.6 108.6 17.2 89.8 Adjustment in prior year Note 2 158.1 158.1 1 April 2013 restated 1.6 266.7 17.2 247.9 Tax credited to the income statement: 1.1 27.1 5.4 33.6 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 1.7 1.7 allowance on share options awards 1.0 1.0 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.7 0.7 foreign exchange 4.3 4.3 adjustments relating to change in UK tax rate 0.6 0.6 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 5.7 5.8 11.5 Deferred tax recognised on acquisition 72.3 72.3 31 March 2014 restated 8.4 316.2 26.4 281.4 Transfer between categories 2.8 5.5 8.3 Tax charged credited to the income statement: 0.7 33.2 1.9 30.6 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income: defined benefit pension scheme remeasurement loss 0.7 0.7 allowance on share options awards 1.5 1.5 movement in value of available for sale financial assets 0.9 0.9 foreign exchange 0.4 10.5 10.1 Balance sheet transfer of pre-acquisition balances 4.5 37.9 33.4 Deferred tax recognised on acquisition 578.8 578.8 31 December 2014 5.6 845.8 57.2 783.0 Assets at 31 December 2014 10.5 66.0 76.5 Liabilities at 31 December 2014 4.9 845.8 8.8 859.5 Net assets liabilities at 31 December 2014 5.6 845.8 57.2 783.0 Assets at 31 March 2014 restated 8.4 33.8 42.2 Liabilities at 31 March 2014 restated 316.2 7.4 323.6 Net assets liabilities at 31 March 2014 restated 8.4 316.2 26.4 281.4 The deferred tax assets are recoverable against future taxable profits and are due after more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of 57.2 million year ended 31 March 2014: 26.4 million in respect of provisions and other temporary differences mainly relates to deferred and accrued compensation in Russell group 28.5 million year ended 31 March 2014: nil, share based payments 5.4 million year ended 31 March 2014: 5.6 million, retirement benefits 5.6 million year ended 31 March 2014: 4.8 million, trading losses 4.3 million year ended 31 March 2014: 0.5 million and other provisions and temporary differences 13.4 million year ended 31 March 2014: 15.5 million.
The purchased intangible assets of the Italian group create a deferred tax liability due to the difference between their accounting and tax treatment.
This liability is amortised at the same rate as the intangible assets.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 20.4 million year ended 31 March 2014: 17.0 million within certain Group subsidiaries.
The assets would be recognised in the future only if suitable taxable income were to arise within the Group.
There was no deferred tax in the Company.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates separate defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the defined benefit and defined contribution schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the Group in a separate trustee administered fund and the funds are primarily managed by Schroder Investment Management Limited, Legal & General Investment Management Limited, PIMCO Europe Limited and Aviva Investors during the period.
The Other plans relate to the severance and leaving indemnity scheme Trattamento di Fine Rapporto TFR operated by the Italian group in accordance with Italian law, the employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT and the pension commitments of LCH.
The Company has no retirement benefit obligations.
The only scheme operated by FTSE International and Frank Russell Company are a defined contribution schemes.
144 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Defined benefit schemes The UK defined benefit scheme was a non-contributory scheme and closed to new members in 1999.
With effect from 31 March 2012, the scheme also closed to accrual of future benefits for active members and it has been agreed that the benefits for affected members will remain linked to their salary with the Group.
Pension scheme obligations and costs are determined by an independent qualified actuary on a regular basis using the projected unit credit method.
The obligations are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme and are reflected in the Group balance sheet.
The TFR operated by the Italian group is classified as an unfunded defined benefit scheme for funds accumulated prior to 1 July 2007.
The service cost, representing deferred salaries accruing to employees, was included as an operating expense and was determined by law at 6.91 per cent of salary payments subject to certain adjustments.
The scheme obligation comprises accumulated service costs and is revalued by law at a rate equal to 75 per cent of national life price index 1.5 per cent by an independent qualified actuary.
Since 1 July 2007, the Group retains no obligation, as contributions are made directly into Italian state funds in the manner of a defined contribution scheme.
The employee benefit and retirement plan operated by MillenniumIT is classified as a defined benefit plan.
The net obligation in respect of this plan is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Once an employee is continuously employed for more than five years, he or she is entitled to a payment equivalent to half a months gross salary multiplied by the number of years in service at MillenniumIT.
The defined benefit scheme operated by LCH.
Clearnet was closed to new members from 30 September 2009.
The scheme was closed to further employee contributions from 31 March 2013.
Defined contribution schemes The Groups defined contribution schemes are now the only schemes open to new employees in the UK, Italy and LCH entities.
For the UK pension plan, a core contribution of four to eight per cent of pensionable pay is provided and the Group will match employee contributions up to a maximum of six to ten per cent of pensionable pay.
LCH pays fixed contributions to the defined contribution scheme and there is no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Period ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total Notes m m m m m m m m Defined contribution schemes 2.5 5.2 4.7 12.4 3.4 5.5 7.6 16.5 Defined benefit scheme current service cost and expenses 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.8 Total pension charge included in employee costs 7 3.0 5.3 4.8 13.1 4.3 6.0 7.0 17.3 Net finance expense income 9 0.8 0.6 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.4 0.5 0.8 Total recognised in the income statement 3.8 4.7 5.1 13.6 5.0 5.6 7.5 18.1 Defined benefit assets obligations for pension schemes Period ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of assets: Equities quoted 9.1 94.6 0.1 103.8 8.4 87.7 0.1 96.2 Bonds quoted 126.7 105.3 0.2 232.2 104.2 76.8 0.1 181.1 Property 0.8 0.1 0.9 4.3 0.1 4.4 Cash 6.2 7.3 0.1 13.6 4.4 5.8 0.1 10.3 Pensioner buy in policy 162.0 162.0 155.4 155.4 Foreign exchange 5.4 0.1 5.5 2.8 2.8 Total fair value of assets 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 276.7 167.5 0.4 444.6 Present value of funded obligations 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 300.6 153.0 13.4 467.0 Deficit surplus 27.1 16.0 12.7 23.8 23.9 14.5 13.0 22.4 UK pension plan actuarial assumptions are set out below: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK LSEG UK LCH UK Inflation rate RPI 3.1% 3.1% 3.4% 3.4% Inflation rate CPI 2.1% 2.1% 2.4% 2.4% Rate of increase in salaries 3.1% n a 3.4% n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.4% 2.2% 3.6% 2.2% Discount rate 3.7% 3.7% 4.5% 4.5% Life expectancy from age 60 years Non retired male member 28.6 30.4 28.6 30.4 Non retired female member 30.5 32.8 30.5 32.6 Retired male member 27.1 28.1 27.1 29.3 Retired female member 29.2 30.4 29.2 31.3 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 145 The mortality assumptions are based on the standard tables S1NA published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries adjusted to take account of projected future improvements in life expectancy from the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS mortality survey, which was published in 2008.
We have used an allowance for CMI 2013 projections and applied a 1.25 per cent 1.00 per cent for male female long term trend rate in respect of future mortality improvements.
Sensitivities The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the LSEG UK scheme obligations are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme obligations Inflation rate CPI Increase by 0.5% Increase by 5.4m Rate of increase in pensions payment Increase by 0.5% Increase by 23.6m Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Reduce by 25.6m Mortality rate Increase by 1 year Increase by 10.9m The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation Period ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation as at beginning of period year 300.6 153.0 13.4 467.0 291.4 7.9 299.3 Liabilities acquired in a business combination 160.6 11.1 171.7 Pension expense income : Current service cost 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.6 0.1 Interest cost 10.0 5.1 0.3 15.4 12.9 6.1 0.6 19.6 Subtotal included in the income statement 10.0 4.9 0.4 15.3 12.9 6.6 19.5 Re-measurement losses gains : Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 30.6 31.7 1.1 63.4 13.6 0.3 13.3 Actuarial gains losses demographic assumptions 3.2 3.2 1.3 0.2 1.5 Actuarial gains losses experience 2.1 0.2 2.3 4.3 0.5 3.8 Other actuarial movements through the income statement 0.1 0.1 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 28.5 28.5 1.0 58.0 5.6 13.6 8.0 Benefits paid 7.2 1.8 1.1 10.1 9.3 2.4 5.4 17.1 Foreign exchange 1.2 0.6 0.6 1.8 0.2 1.6 Benefit obligation as at end of period year 331.9 185.8 13.1 530.8 300.6 153.0 13.4 467.0 Movement in fair value of scheme assets during the period Period ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans Total m m m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets as at beginning of period year 276.7 167.5 0.4 444.6 273.7 273.7 Assets acquired in a business combination 169.6 3.6 173.2 Pension income: Interest income 9.2 5.7 14.9 12.2 6.5 0.1 18.8 Subtotal included in the income statement 9.2 5.7 14.9 12.2 6.5 0.1 18.8 Re-measurement gains: Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 23.1 29.3 52.4 2.6 7.0 0.3 9.3 Subtotal included in other comprehensive income 23.1 29.3 52.4 2.6 7.0 0.3 9.3 Contributions by employer 3.5 0.5 0.2 4.2 3.6 0.1 3.7 Expenses 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.9 0.9 Benefits paid 7.2 1.8 0.2 9.2 9.3 2.4 3.7 15.4 Foreign exchange 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Fair value of scheme assets as at end of period year 304.8 201.8 0.4 507.0 276.7 167.5 0.4 444.6 The actual return on plan assets was 67.2 million year ended 31 March 2014: 9.6 million.
146 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Defined benefit actuarial gains and losses recognised The experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions of the pension scheme during the year are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income: Period ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 March 2014 LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans LSEG UK LCH UK Other plans m m m m m m Recognised up to beginning period year 27.9 6.6 0.7 19.7 1.0 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the period year 5.4 0.6 0.8 8.2 6.6 0.3 Cumulative amount recognised at end of period year 33.3 7.2 1.5 27.9 6.6 0.7 The last actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme was carried out at 31 March 2012 by an independent qualified actuary.
The Group is currently in discussion on the contributions to the defined benefit scheme during the year to 31 March 2015.
The next actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2015 may result in an adjustment to future contribution levels.
The Group estimates the present value of the duration of defined benefit obligations on average to fall due over 20 years.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 Note m m m m Trade receivables 152.8 133.5 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 5.0 5.2 Trade receivables net 147.8 128.3 Amounts due from Group undertakings 34 653.8 534.1 Other receivables 169.8 38.3 Prepayments and accrued income 253.5 83.9 0.6 571.1 250.5 654.4 534.1 The carrying values less impairment provision of trade and other receivables are reasonable approximations of fair values.
Trade receivables that are not past due are not considered to be impaired.
The ageing of past due debtors for the Group is as follows: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Impaired Not impaired Impaired Not impaired m m m m 0 to 3 months past due 50.5 50.7 Greater than 3 months past due 5.0 35.1 5.2 11.6 5.0 85.6 5.2 62.3 The carrying amount of the Group's trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m Sterling 155.5 122.9 Euro 101.0 90.7 US Dollar 301.2 Other Currencies 13.4 36.9 571.1 250.5 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 147 Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 m m 1 April 5.2 6.1 Provision for receivables impairment 2.2 3.4 Receivables written off during the period year as uncollectible 0.4 0.7 Provisions no longer required 1.9 3.4 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 31 December 31 March 5.0 5.2 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in operating expenses in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables and the other categories of financial assets do not contain impaired assets.
Financial assets and financial liabilities The financial instruments of the Group and Company are categorised as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available for instruments instruments Held-tosale at fair at fair value at fair value Loans and maturity value through through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 293,722.9 293,722.9 Receivables for repurchase transactions 113,084.8 113,084.8 Other receivables from clearing members 2,908.3 2,908.3 Financial assets held at fair value 11,112.9 9,123.9 20,236.8 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 21,493.0 21,493.0 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 137,486.1 11,112.9 302,846.8 451,445.8 Assets held at fair value 12.4 12.4 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 137,486.1 11,112.9 302,859.2 451,458.2 Other non-current assets 42.9 21.9 64.8 Trade and other receivables 567.5 3.6 571.1 654.4 654.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,052.0 75.2 1,127.2 0.2 0.2 Available for sale financial assets 4.8 4.8 Derivatives not designated as hedges Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging Fair value hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 22.7 22.7 22.7 22.7 Total 139,148.5 11,117.7 302,983.0 453,249.2 654.6 22.7 677.3 There were no transfers between categories during the period.
148 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Group Company Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities value through liabilities at value through at amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 293,722.8 293,722.8 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 113,084.8 113,084.8 Other payables to clearing members 44,650.1 44,650.1 Financial liabilities held at fair value 9.8 9.8 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing 157,734.9 293,732.6 451,467.5 Trade and other payables 727.4 727.4 195.0 195.0 Borrowings 1,726.4 1,726.4 923.7 923.7 Provisions 14.4 14.4 Other non-current liabilities 43.1 34.4 77.5 Other non-current payables 73.3 73.3 Total 160,319.5 293,767.0 454,086.5 1,118.7 1,118.7 There were no transfers between categories during the period.
The financial instruments of the Group and Company at the previous year's balance sheet date were as follows: Group Company Financial Financial Available instruments instruments at Held-tofor sale at at fair value fair value Loans and maturity fair value through profit Loans and through profit receivables assets through OCI or loss Total receivables or loss Total 31 March 2014 m m m m m m m m Assets as per balance sheet Financial assets of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading assets 337,211.5 337,211.5 Receivables for repurchase transactions 117,702.6 117,702.6 Other receivables from clearing members 4,442.5 4,442.5 Financial assets held at fair value 1,433.3 5,926.7 9,707.8 17,067.8 Cash and cash equivalents of clearing members 27,351.8 27,351.8 Financial assets of the CCP clearing business 149,496.9 1,433.3 5,926.7 346,919.3 503,776.2 Assets held at fair value 18.7 18.7 Total financial assets for CCP clearing 149,496.9 1,433.3 5,926.7 346,938.0 503,794.9 Other non-current assets 38.0 38.0 Trade and other receivables 250.5 250.5 534.1 534.1 Cash and cash equivalents 919.2 919.2 Available for sale financial assets 4.8 4.8 Derivatives used for hedging Fair value hedges: Cross currency interest rate swaps 6.7 6.7 6.7 6.7 Total 150,704.6 1,433.3 5,931.5 346,944.7 505,014.1 534.1 6.7 540.8 Balances on certain CCP financial assets at the prior year end were re-categorised in the current period.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 149 Group Company Financial Financial Financial liabilities at fair Financial liabilities at fair liabilities at value through liabilities at value through amortised cost profit and loss Total amortised cost profit and loss Total 31 March 2014 m m m m m m Liabilities as per balance sheet Financial liabilities of the CCP clearing business: CCP trading liabilities 337,211.5 337,211.5 Liabilities under repurchase transactions 117,702.6 117,702.6 Other payables to clearing members 48,808.2 48,808.2 Financial liabilities held at fair value 25.1 25.1 Total financial liabilities of the CCP clearing 166,510.8 337,236.6 503,747.4 Trade and other payables 394.0 7.5 401.5 204.3 204.3 Borrowings 1,223.7 1,223.7 822.6 822.6 Provisions 19.4 19.4 Other non-current liabilities 53.3 25.90 79.2 Derivatives used for hedging Fair value hedges: Interest rate swaps 3.4 3.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 Total 168,201.2 337,277.4 505,478.6 1,026.9 4.0 1,030.9 There were no transfers between catagories during the year.
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2014: Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value CCP trading assets: Derivative instruments: Futures 3,715.9 3,715.9 Options 1,184.3 1,184.3 Commodities derivatives 138.4 138.4 Non-derivative instruments: CCP Transactions 5.7 288,678.6 288,684.3 Financial assets held at fair value: Equities and bonds 6,957.8 6,957.8 Securities 6,491.8 6,491.8 Government backed, bank issued certificates of deposits 6,799.6 6,799.6 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 25,293.5 288,678.6 313,972.1 150 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 4.8 4.8 Derivatives not used for hedging: Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.4 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 22.7 22.7 Other non-current assets: Investments in subordinated trust 11.9 11.9 Investment Funds 2.7 5.3 8.0 Investment in preferred securities 2.0 2.0 Trade and other receivables: Investments in subordinated trusts 3.6 3.6 Cash and cash equivalents: Money market mutual funds 75.2 75.2 Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities: Derivative instruments: Futures 3,715.9 3,715.9 Options 1,184.3 1,184.3 Commodities derivatives 138.4 138.4 Non-derivative instruments: CCP balances 5.7 288,678.5 288,684.2 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 9.8 9.8 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 5,054.1 288,678.5 293,732.6 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 26.8 26.8 Euro denominated Put Option 7.6 7.6 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 151 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2014: Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial assets measured at fair value: CCP trading assets: Derivative instruments: Futures 6,150.3 6,150.3 Options 1,846.9 1,846.9 Commodities derivatives 471.5 471.5 Non-derivative instruments: CCP Transactions 9.4 328,733.40 328,742.8 Financial assets held at fair value Equities and bonds 6,777.6 6,777.6 Securities 5,926.7 5,926.7 Government backed, bank issued certificates of deposit 2,948.9 2,948.9 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 24,131.3 328,733.4 352,864.7 Available for sale financial assets: Investment in unquoted equity Euroclear 4.8 4.8 Derivatives used for hedging: Cross currency interest rate swaps 6.7 6.70 Group Quoted prices in active Significant observable Significant markets inputs unobservable inputs Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair Value m m m m Financial liabilities measured at fair value: CCP trading liabilities: Derivative instruments: Futures 6,150.3 6,150.3 Options 1,846.9 1,846.9 Commodities derivatives 471.5 471.5 Non-derivative instruments: CCP balances 9.4 328,733.4 328,742.8 Financial liabilities held at fair value: Equities and bonds 25.1 25.1 Fair value of transactions with CCP members 8,503.2 328,733.4 337,236.6 Derivatives used for hedging: Interest rate swaps 3.4 3.4 Cross currency interest rate swaps 4.0 4.0 Other non-current liabilities: Canadian dollar denominated Put Option 25.9 25.9 Euro denominated Put Option Trade and other payables: Euro denominated Put Option 7.5 7.5 152 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs, which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 1, the fair value is based on market price quotations at the reporting date.
For assets and liabilities classified as Level 2, the fair value is calculated using one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach with market observable inputs.
The selection of the appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of the relevant inputs as well as the reliability of the inputs.
The inputs may include currency rates, interest rate and forward rate curves and net asset values.
The results of the application of the various techniques may not be equally representative of fair value, due to factors such as assumptions made in the valuation.
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the period.
When observable market data is not available, the Group uses one or more valuation techniques e. g. the market approach or the income approach for which sufficient and reliable data is available.
These inputs used in estimating the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments include expected timing and level of future cash flows, timing of settlement, discount rates and net asset values of certain investments.
These interests, in the absence of a recent and relevant secondary market transaction, are classified as Level 3 because the valuations require significant levels of management judgment.
Within Level 3, the use of the market approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions, while the use of the income approach generally consists of the net present value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as appropriate for liquidity, credit, market and other risk factors.
The selection of appropriate valuation techniques may be affected by the availability of relevant inputs as well as the relative reliability of the inputs.
Gains and losses associated with the changes in the fair value of Level 3 financial instruments are included in other income on the consolidated income statement.
There were no changes to valuation techniques for Level 3 assets and liabilities during the period.
There were no transfers into or out of Level 3 from or to other fair value hierarchy levels during the period.
There were no gains or losses from Level 3 assets and liabilities for the period recognised in the income statement and in the statement of other comprehensive income.
The following table provides a reconciliation from opening balance to closing balance of Level 3 assets: Investment funds Investment in preferred securities m m Balance at 1 April 2014 Acquisition of Frank Russell Company 5.1 2.0 Distributions 0.2 Contributions 0.4 Balance at 31 December 2014 5.3 2.0 The management has assessed that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities categorised as Loans and receivables, Held to Maturity and Financial liabilities at amortised cost approximate their carrying values.
The fair value of the Groups borrowings is disclosed in Note 25.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value consist largely of securities restricted in use for the operations of the Groups CCPs as managers of their respective clearing and guarantee systems.
The nature and composition of the CCP clearing business assets and liabilities are explained in the accounting policies note on pages 124-125.
As at 31 December 2014, there were no provisions for impairment in relation to any of the CCP financial assets 31 March 2014: nil and none of these assets were past due 31 March 2014: nil.
Other non-current assets include financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss of 21.9 million 31 March 2014: nil, prepayments relating to tax and insurances of 35.4 million 31 March 2014: nil, rental deposits of 0.4 million 31 March 2014: 0.2 million, deferred commissions of 1.3 million 31 March 2014: nil, finance lease recoverable of 1.9 million 31 March 2014: nil and other financial assets are 3.9 million 31 March 2014: 37.8 million.
Other non-current liabilities include deferred consideration of 15.9 million 31 March 2014: 19.4 million, put options of 34.4 million 31 March 2014: 26.0 million, non-current lease obligations of 5.1 million 31 March 2014: nil, and other financial liabilities related to the clearing business of 22.1 million 31 March 2014: 33.8 million.
Other non-current payables include incentive compensation liabilities of 31.7 million 31 March 2014: nil, deferred compensation of 12.9 million 31 March 2014: nil, unrecognised tax benefit of 3.0 million 31 March 2014: nil and long term liabilities including tenant improvements and rentals of 25.7 million 31 March 2014: nil.
Hedging activities and derivatives Derivative financial assets of 22.7 million represents the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps amounting to 10 contracts totalling 500.0 million.
These effectively exchange some of the obligations and coupons of the 2016 and the 2019 250 million bonds from sterling into euros in order to more closely match the currency of borrowings to the Groups currency of net assets and earnings.
This results in a reduction in translation exposure on euro STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 153 denominated net assets and the protection of sterling cash flows.
These swaps have been designated as a hedge of the Groups net investment in the Italian group and qualify for effective hedge accounting.
For the period ended 31 December 2014, the Group recognised the 20.0 million movement in mark to market value of these derivatives in reserves 31 March 2014: 2.3 million.
Foreign exchange forward contracts were arranged during the period to hedge the fair value of USD and JPY denominated exposures.
These hedges forward buy and sell payables and receivables denominated in USD and JPY, with the mark to market adjustments offsetting the hedged item revaluation in the income statement.
This also offers more predictable cash flows to the Group at maturity.
At 31 December 2014, a payable of USD12.7 million and receivable of JPY4.2 billion were hedged forward into the next financial year.
The market value of the hedges was 0.4 million in aggregate.
At 31 December 2014, the Company had derivative asset of 22.7 million 31 March 2014: 6.7 million and derivative liability of nil 31 March 2014: 4.0 million.
All derivatives in the Company are cross currency interest rate swaps and classified as Level 2.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Group reports financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis on the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
The following table shows the impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2014.
Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 December 2014 m m m Derivative financial assets 21,247,763 21,246,516 1,247 Reverse repurchase agreements 456,449 169,010 287,439 Total assets 21,704,212 21,415,526 288,686 Derivative financial liabilities 21,247,763 21,246,516 1,247 Reverse repurchase agreements 456,449 169,010 287,439 Total liabilities 21,704,212 21,415,526 288,686 The impact of netting arrangements on all financial assets and liabilities that are reported net on the balance sheet as at 31 March 2014 is as follows: Gross Amount Net amount as amounts offset reported 31 March 2014 m m m Derivative financial assets 24,807,530 24,806,500 1,030 Reverse repurchase agreements 513,873 187,152 326,721 Other 88,284 87,294 990 Total assets 25,409,687 25,080,946 328,741 Derivative financial liabilities 24,807,530 24,806,500 1,030 Reverse repurchase agreements 513,873 187,152 326,721 Other 88,284 87,294 990 Total liabilities 25,409,687 25,080,946 328,741 All offset amounts are held in the CCP trading assets and CCP trading liabilities within the Groups financial instruments.
As CCPs, the Groups operating companies sit in the middle of members transactions and hold default funds and margin amounts as a contingency against the default of a member.
As such, further amounts are available to offset in the event of a default reducing the asset and liability of 288,686.8 million 31 March 2014: 328,741.6 million to nil.
Default funds for derivatives of 5,689.8 million 31 March 2014: 4,018.7 million, repurchase agreements of 1,452.3 million 31 March 2014: 1,497.1 million and other transactions of 312.6 million 31 March 2014: 377.0 million are held by the Group.
In addition, the Group holds margin of 49,400.6 million for derivatives, 22,249.2 million for repurchase agreements and 2,305.4 million for other transactions, as well as additional variation margin amounts which are not allocated by business line.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Company 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Cash at bank 929.7 683.9 0.2 Short term deposits 197.5 235.3 1,127.2 919.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents are held with authorised counterparties of a high credit standing, in secured investments at LCH.
Clearnet Group companies and at CC&G and unsecured interest bearing current and call accounts, short term deposits and AAA rated money market funds elsewhere in the Group.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by the counterparties holding cash and cash equivalents, and there are no material differences between their book and fair values.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include amounts held by certain subsidiaries on behalf of their clearing members, the use of which is restricted to the operation of the clearers as managers of the clearing and guarantee system see note 20.
Cash and cash equivalents include amounts held by regulated 154 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued entities for regulatory and operational purposes.
At 31 December 2014, the Group set aside 1,011.3 million year ended 31 March 2014: 803.6 million for such purposes, with the amount boosted by cash and cash equivalents set aside at Frank Russell Company, and subject to regular reviews with regulators in the UK, France, Italy and the USA.
Assets held for sale During the period the Group decided to put up for sale a freehold property and related plant and equipment held by a subsidiary undertaking.
The assets are currently being marketed and a sale is expected within the next financial year.
31 December 2014 m Property, plant and equipment 5.3 5.3 The carrying amount of the asset is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
There have been no transactions recognised during the period in the statement of comprehensive income relating to the asset classified as held for sale.
Borrowings Group Company 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Current Bank borrowings and trade finance loans 789.9 278.7 127.0 26.0 789.9 278.7 127.0 26.0 Non-current Bonds 796.7 796.6 796.7 796.6 Preferred securities 139.8 148.4 936.5 945.0 796.7 796.6 The Group has the following committed bank facilities and unsecured notes: Interest rate Carrying value at percentage at 31 December 31 December Notes Facility 2014 2014 Type Expiry Date m m % Drawn value of Facilities Multicurrency revolving credit facility Jul 2016 250.0 84.7 LIBOR 0.8 Multicurrency revolving credit facility Jun 2017 600.0 577.4 LIBOR 0.6 Multicurrency revolving credit facility Jul 2018 450.0 127.0 LIBOR 0.95 Total Bank Facilities 1,300.0 789.1 Notes due July 2016 Jul 2016 250.0 250.7 6.125 Notes due October 2019 Oct 2019 250.0 248.4 9.125 Notes due November 2021 Nov 2021 300.0 297.6 4.75 LCH.
Clearnet preferred securities May 2017 155.8 139.8 6.576 Total Bonds 955.8 936.5 Total Committed Facilities 2,255.8 1,725.6 The carrying value of drawn facilities and bonds at 31 March 2014 was 277.8 million and 945.0 million, respectively.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 155 Current borrowings The Group arranged 600 million of new, committed facilities in June 2014 increasing total committed bank lines to 1,300 million.
These facilities were partially utilised at 31 December 2014, with 789.1 million drawn 31 March 2014: 277.8 million.
In addition, a number of Group entities have access to uncommitted operational, money market and overdraft facilities which support post trade activities and day to day liquidity requirements across its operations.
As at 31 December 2014, 0.8 million 31 March 2014: 0.9 million was the aggregate drawing against these facilities.
CC&G has direct intra-day access to refinancing with the Bank of Italy to cover its operational liquidity requirements in the event of a market stress or participant failure.
In addition, it has arranged commercial bank back-up credit lines with a number of commercial banks, which totaled 400 million at 31 December 2014, for overnight and longer durations to broaden its liquidity resources consistent with requirements under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR.
Clearnet SA has a French banking licence and is able to access refinancing at the European Central Bank to support its liquidity position.
Clearnet Limited is deemed to have sufficient fungible liquid assets to maintain an appropriate liquidity position and, following the announcement by the Bank of England on 5 November 2014, is eligible to apply for participation in the sterling monetary framework to further support the CCP in member or market stress scenarios.
Noncurrent borrowings In July 2006, the Company issued a 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in July 2016.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in January and July each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.679 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on movements in the Companys credit rating with Moodys which was unchanged throughout the financial period.
The bond coupon remained at 6.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In June 2009, the Company issued another 250 million bond which is unsecured and is due for repayment in October 2019.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
The issue price of the bond was 99.548 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is dependent on the Companys credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors which were unchanged throughout the financial period.
The bond coupon remained at 9.125 per cent per annum throughout this period.
In November 2012, the Company issued a further 300 million bond under its euro medium term notes programme launched at the same time which is unsecured and is due for repayment in November 2021.
Interest is paid semi-annually in arrears in May and November each year.
The issue price of the bond was 100 per 100 nominal.
The coupon on the bond is fixed at 4.75 per cent per annum.
Clearnet Group Limited issued through Freshwater Finance plc a 200 million of Perpetual Preferred Securities to underpin its capital structure.
20 million of these Securities were subsequently repurchased in the market by LCH.
The coupon on these Securities is currently a fixed rate of 6.576 per cent per annum and interest is paid annually.
In May 2017, this coupon is replaced by a rate of 3 month Euribor plus 2.1 per cent per annum, and is the trigger point for a first call of the Securities.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Group m m m m Borrowings within one year 789.9 789.9 278.7 278.7 after more than one year 936.5 1,067.8 945.0 1,066.2 1,726.4 1,857.7 1,223.7 1,344.9 The fair values of the Companys borrowings are as follows: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value Company m m m m Borrowings within one year 127.0 127.0 26.0 26.0 after more than one year 796.7 920.0 796.6 910.3 923.7 1,047.0 822.6 936.3 The fair values of borrowings are based on discounted cash flows using a rate based on borrowing cost.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest at an agreed margin over LIBOR.
The carrying amounts of the Group's borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 923.7 389.5 534.3 822.6 248.5 574.1 Euro 140.1 389.5 529.6 400.5 248.5 649.0 USD 662.1 662.1 Sri Lankan Rupees 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 Total 1,726.4 1,726.4 1,223.7 1,223.7 156 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The carrying amounts of the Company's borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Drawn Swapped Effective Drawn Swapped Effective Currency m m m m m m Sterling 923.7 389.5 534.2 822.6 255.5 567.1 Euro 389.5 389.5 255.5 255.5 Total 923.7 923.7 822.6 822.6 26.
Analysis of net debt Group Company 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Due within one year Cash and cash equivalents 1,127.2 919.2 0.2 Bank borrowings 789.9 278.7 127.0 26.0 Derivative financial assets 0.4 Derivative financial liabilities 3.4 337.7 637.1 126.8 26.0 Due after one year Bonds 796.7 796.6 796.7 796.6 Preferred securities 139.8 148.4 Derivative financial assets 22.7 6.7 22.7 6.7 Derivative financial liabilities 4.0 4.0 Total net debt 576.1 305.2 900.8 819.9 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Group Company 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Increase decrease in cash in the period year 254.5 491.7 0.2 0.1 Bank loan repayments less new drawings 519.9 192.1 101.0 26.0 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 265.4 299.6 100.8 26.1 Foreign exchange movements 29.4 11.2 0.2 0.5 Movement on derivative financial assets and liabilities 23.8 1.4 20.0 2.2 Bond valuation adjustment 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Acquired debt 242.4 Net debt at the start of the period year 305.2 349.9 819.9 795.7 Net debt at the end of the period year 576.1 305.2 900.8 819.9 27.
Provisions Property m Group 1 April 2013 27.3 Utilised during the year 9.7 Unwinding of discount on provision 1.8 31 March 2014 19.4 Utilised during the period 6.9 Unwinding of discount on provision 0.8 Acquired during the period 1.1 31 December 2014 14.4 Current 0.9 Non-current 13.5 31 December 2014 14.4 The property provision represents the estimated net present value of future costs for lease rentals and dilapidation costs less the expected receipts from sub-letting space which is surplus to business requirements.
The leases have between one and 15 years to expiry.
The provision acquired during the year relates to property provisions held by Frank Russell Company.
The Company has no provisions.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 157 28.
Share capital and premium number of Ordinary Share 1 shares shares premium Total millions m m m At 1 April 2013 and 1 April 2014 271.1 18.8 18.8 Issue of shares to the Employee Benefit Trust 1.5 0.1 0.1 Rights issue 74.3 5.0 957.7 962.7 At 31 December 2014 346.9 23.9 957.7 981.6 1 79 Ordinary shares of 6 p 86 The Group announced a 3 for 11 Rights Issue on 22 August 2014 in relation to the acquisition of the Frank Russell Company.
The Rights Issue took place 79 on 11 September 2014 and constituted 74,347,813 new ordinary shares of par value 6 86 p at 1,295p.
This generated share premium of 957.7 million.
The new ordinary shares issued during the Rights Issue have the same rights as the other shares in issue.
During the period, the Group also issued 1,500,000 ordinary shares at par value to the Employee Benefit Trust in relation to the Groups employee share option scheme.
More information about the shares and rights attached to the ordinary shares is given in the Directors Report on pages 110-112.
Net cash flow generated from operations Group Company Period ended Year ended Period ended Year ended 31 Dec 2014 31 Mar 2014 31 Dec 2014 31 Mar 2014 m m m m Profit before taxation 191.0 284.3 166.0 64.4 Depreciation and amortisation 136.3 178.6 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 Profit on acquisition disposal of shares in subsidiary and joint venture 0.1 6.9 Net finance expense income 51.1 68.8 128.5 79.3 Increase decrease in inventories 5.9 0.8 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 0.7 37.2 3.7 9.7 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 14.2 118.6 10.4 6.7 Impairment of goodwill and intangibles 22.0 Decrease in CCP financial assets 20,425.6 92,323.0 Increase in CCP clearing business liabilities 20,380.1 92,236.4 Defined benefit pension obligation - contributions in excess of expenses charged 3.1 3.3 Provisions utilised during the period 6.9 9.7 Reduction in obligation arising from acquisition 2.4 Decrease increase in assets held at fair value from operating activities 5.0 9.5 Share scheme expense 4.2 13.4 Foreign exchange losses on operating activities 9.8 6.5 13.7 1.1 Cash generated from absorbed by operations 413.4 515.4 30.5 13.0 Comprising: Ongoing operating activities 481.3 548.7 4.1 1.7 Non-recurring items 67.9 33.3 34.6 14.7 413.4 515.4 30.5 13.0 30.
Commitments and contingencies Contracted capital commitments and other contracted commitments not provided for in the financial statements of the Group were 1.9 million year ended 31 March 2014: 1.7 million and nil year ended 31 March 2014: nil, respectively.
In the normal course of business, the Group and Company receive legal claims in respect of commercial, employment and other matters.
Where a claim is more likely than not to result in an economic outflow of benefits from the Group or Company, a provision is made representing the expected cost of settling such claims.
At 31 December 2014, there are currently no provisions recognised for such legal claims year ended 31 March 2014: nil.
31. Business combinations Acquisitions in the period to 31 December 2014 The Group made two acquisitions during the period.
On 2 December 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of the entire issue share capital of Frank Russell Company Russell.
Russell operates in two segments, those being information services through its index business and investment management.
The index business is a leading provider of benchmarks to US-focused equity funds and also provides customised and innovative index solutions for clients.
The investment management business has $273 billion assets under management at the end of December 2014 and is a leading provider of multi-asset class investment solutions to institutional and retail investors worldwide.
158 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The acquisition of Russell continues the Groups ongoing diversification strategy, builds on the Groups core strengths in intellectual property, and accelerates its geographic expansion, particularly in the USA, the largest global financial services market.
Following this acquisition, approximately one-third of the Groups revenues will come from North America.
The consideration paid by the Group at completion was 1,678.5 million.
Approximately 962.7 million of the consideration was financed from the net proceeds of a Rights Issue.
The Group made a Rights Issue to all its existing shareholders on 11 September 2014.
The 3 for 11 Rights Issue of 74,347,813 new shares at 1,295p per new share.
The remaining consideration was financed in US dollar by the Group from existing multi-currency bank debt facilities, including a 600 million multi-currency revolving credit facility during the period.
On 8 May 2014, the Group acquired 100 per cent of Bonds.
com Group, a US-based electronic trading platform for U. S. corporate and emerging market bonds.
The acquisition was made via MTS Markets International Inc MTS, a subsidiary of the Group.
The transaction meets the growing customer and regulatory demand for access to transparent, electronic, cost-effective platforms for the trading of fixed income securities.
Going forward, MTS intends to utilise its extensive expertise in fixed income to provide Bonds.
com with support and investment to further build its product offering, enabling U. S. fixed income traders to meet their domestic and international needs.
The consideration paid by the Group was 8.8 million.
Contribution post acquisition Fair value of Operating Date acquired Total investment Goodwill assets acquired Revenue profit loss Acquisition m m m m m Frank Russell Company 2 December 2014 1,678.5 476.0 1,209.9 89.8 14.4 Bonds.
com Group 8 May 2014 8.8 8.7 0.1 1.6 1.6 1,687.3 484.7 1,210.0 91.4 12.8 From the date of acquisition, Russell contributed 89.8 million of revenue and 14.4 million to profit before tax from continuing operations of the Group.
From the date of acquisition, Bonds.
com contributed 1.6 million of revenue.
It made an operating loss before tax of 1.6 million during the period.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 April 2014, estimated Group revenue for the period from continuing operations would have been 863.7 million, with operating profit before acquisition amortisation and exceptional items of 133.9 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies and based on available information.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities arising out of each acquisition at the relevant acquisition date are as follows: Bonds.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 159 The fair value adjustments include: Frank Russell Company The additional 1,508.0 million of intangible assets arising on consolidation represents 30.7 million relating to various technologies, 799.7 million relating to customer relations and 677.6 million relating to trade names.
Deferred tax liability on these intangible assets was 576.9 million.
The fair values of these purchased intangible assets are being amortised over their remaining useful life from the date of completion.
The goodwill of 476.0 million arising on consolidation represents the growth of future expected income streams from Russells customer base and the value of expected synergies arising from the acquisition.
com Group The Group is currently undertaking a full allocation exercise of the purchased intangibles of Bonds.
com, until that is complete the excess of consideration over net assets acquired of 8.7 million is held as goodwill.
Acquisitions in the year to 31 March 2014 The Group made three acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2014.
On 5 April 2013, the Group and TMX Group Limited completed a transaction to combine their fixed income businesses into a new business, FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited.
The transaction resulted in the Group acquiring a 75 per cent stake in FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets Limited for a total consideration of 78.2 million.
The non-controlling interest NCI has an option to sell the remaining 25 per cent interest to the Group after six years or earlier in other limited scenarios.
The Group recognised 27.4 million in goodwill and 74.1 million of other intangible assets.
On 1 May 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of a further 55.5 per cent stake in LCH.
Clearnet resulting in a majority stake of 57.8 per cent in LCH.
The total investment of 470.3 million includes deferred consideration of 20.0 million, payable on 30 September 2017 subject to acceleration or delay in certain limited circumstances.
The investment is inclusive of the Groups participation in the capital raise of LCH.
Clearnet issued share capital of 158.2 million.
The Group recognised 123.8 million in goodwill and 245.2 million of other intangible assets.
On 23 September 2013, the Group acquired a 70 per cent interest in EuroTLX SIM S. p. A. for a consideration of 26.1 million and 0.9 million in deferred consideration.
The NCI has an option to sell the remaining 30 per cent interest to the Group.
The value of the option is dependent on achieving growth and cost synergies in the next financial year.
The Group recognised 15.6 million in goodwill and 10.9 million of other intangible assets.
There were no material changes to the preliminary fair values.
Leases Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group leases various office properties and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The total future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are due as follows: Property Equipment 31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 2014 2014 Leases expiring in: m m m m Less than one year 46.0 30.8 0.3 1.1 More than one year but less than five years 145.1 102.4 0.1 0.6 More than five years 120.0 93.0 311.1 226.2 0.4 1.7 Operating lease payments of 20.6 million 31 March 2014: 34.1 million were charged to the income statement in the year in relation to property and 0.7 million 31 March 2014: 1.9 million in the year in relation to equipment.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The total future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases for property where the Group is lessor are due as follows: Property 31 December 31 March 2014 2014 Leases expiring in: m m Less than one year 5.7 5.5 More than one year but less than five years 19.5 21.2 More than five years 4.1 7.0 29.3 33.7 160 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: 31 December 2014 Minimum Present value of payments payments m m Leases expiring in: Less than one year 6.1 5.8 More than one year but less than five years 5.3 5.2 Total minimum lease payments 11.4 11.0 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 11.0 11.0 The Group had no lease commitments at 31 March 2014.
The Company has no lease commitments.
Finance lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has finance lease contracts for certain property rentals and software licenses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: 31 December 2014 Minimum Present value of payments payments Leases expiring in: m m Less than one year 0.7 0.6 More than one year but less than five years 2.3 2.1 Total minimum lease payments 3.0 2.7 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 2.7 2.7 The Group had no lease commitments at 31 March 2014.
Share Schemes The London Stock Exchange Group Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved at the 2014 AGM, has two elements, a conditional award of Performance Shares and an award of Matching Shares linked to investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares the latter element is not applicable to executive directors.
Vesting of these awards is dependent upon the Companys total shareholder return performance and adjusted basic earnings per share.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 80-109.
The SAYE scheme and International Sharesave Plan provide for grants of options to employees who enter into a SAYE savings contract and options were granted at 20 per cent below fair market value.
Share awards were granted at nil cost to employees and other share options were granted at fair market value or above.
All unvested awards as at 8 September 2014, were adjusted by the Remuneration Committee, using the Theoretical Ex Rights Price formula, to take account of the deprecatory effect of the Rights Issue and to preserve the value of the awards.
The Group has an ESOP discretionary trust to administer the share plans and to acquire the shares to meet commitments to Group employees.
At the year end, 595,179 year ended 31 March 2014: 642,936 shares were held by the trust, funded in part by an interest free loan from the Group and in part by the issue of 1.5 million shares.
A total of 606,247 shares awards were issued to staff from the Rights Issue during the period.
These Rights Shares are included within the numbers granted during the period in the table below.
The Company has no employees but, in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, has the obligation for the assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOP trust and these have been consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
The cost of the Groups shares held by the trust are deducted from retained earnings.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 161 Movements in the number of share options and awards outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Share options SAYE Scheme LTIP Weighted average Weighted average Weighted average exercise exercise exercise Number price Number price Number price 31 March 2013 383,115 6.16 685,070 6.79 6,492,473 Granted 214,485 12.64 2,231,649 Exercised 235,139 7.12 3,501 6.43 1,902,989 0.70 Lapsed forfeited 9,943 9.27 29,171 6.80 428,407 0.30 31 March 2014 138,033 9.25 866,883 8.25 6,392,726 0.40 Granted 7,789 8.36 394,839 13.12 2,360,574 0.04 Exercised 46,560 8.83 5,568 6.23 1,578,435 0.79 Lapsed forfeited 96,163 6.23 300,971 0.79 31 December 2014 99,262 8.36 1,159,991 9.44 6,873,894 0.17 Exercisable at: 31 December 2014 44,119 7.61 9,286 8.94 31 March 2014 32,778 7.73 The weighted average share price of London Stock Exchange Group plc shares during the period was 19.69 year ended 31 March 2014: 16.08.
The range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of awards and options outstanding are as follows: 31 December 2014 31 March 2014 Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining Number contractual Number contractual outstanding life years outstanding life years Share options Less than 7 9,128 Between 7 and 8 24,168 10,506 Between 8 and 9 65,966 0.3 22,272 More than 9 105,255 0.5 SAYE Less than 7 424,262 0.1 439,487 0.5 Between 7 and 8 205,433 0.2 Between 8 and 9 212,911 0.5 More than 9 530,296 1.1 214,485 0.7 LTIP Nil 6,739,835 1.5 6,129,253 1.3 Between 8 and 9 134,059 263,473 Total 8,133,147 1.4 7,397,642 1.3 The fair value of share awards and share options granted during the year was determined using a stochastic valuation model.
The key assumptions used in the valuation were as follows: Performance Shares Matching Shares Restricted Share Award Share Save Plan Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 27 August 30 September 27 August 30 September 27 August 27 August 27 August 11 July 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 Grant date share price 20.61 18.68 20.61 18.68 20.61 20.61 20.61 19.15 Expected life 3 years 3.01 years 3 years 3.01 years 0.90 years 1.90 years 0.76 years 3.14 years Exercise price n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a. n. a.
The approach adopted by the Group in determining the fair value for the Performance and Matching Shares granted during the year was based on a Total Shareholder Return pricing model which incorporates TSR and EPS performance conditions and references the vesting schedules of the awards.
For all other share awards, including the Share Save Plan, the Black-Scholes model was used.
162 Group financial statements London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued The significant inputs into both models are the share price at grant date, expected volatility, dividend yields and annual risk-free interest rate.
The volatility assumption is based on the historical 3-year volatility as at the date of grant.
The risk-free interest rate represents the yield available on a UK zero-coupon government bond on the date of grant for a term commensurate with the vesting period of the award.
The expected life refers to the time from the date of grant to the date the awards vest.
Holders of share awards and share options are not entitled to receive dividends declared during the vesting period.
Transactions with Related Parties Key management compensation Compensation for Directors of the Company and key personnel who have authority for planning, directing and controlling the Group: Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 m m Salaries and other short term benefits 9.7 9.9 Pensions 0.8 0.9 Share based payments 7.9 10.7 18.4 21.5 Inter-company transactions with subsidiary undertakings The Company has loans with some subsidiary undertakings.
Details as at 31 December 2014 are shown in the table below: Amount in millions due Interest in millions owed to from as at charge credit 31 December 31 March Interest rate as at Period ended 31 Year ended 31 Loan counterparty 2014 2014 Term 31 Dec 2014 December 2014 March 2014 London Stock Exchange plc 158.0 m 181.1 m 25 years from May 2006 with five LIBOR plus 3.4 m 5.0 m equal annual repayments 2% per annum commencing in May 2027.
London Stock Exchange 13.2m 13.2m Repayable on demand.
Non-interest nil nil Employee Benefit Trust bearing London Stock Exchange Group 201.2m 9.6 m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 1.0m 0.1m Holdings Italy Limited utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum April 2013.
London Stock Exchange Group 416.3m 474.9m Tenth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus 16.0m 23.3m Holdings Limited utilisation date which was 4.0% per annum October 2009.
Monte Titoli S. p. A. nil nil Six months from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus nil 0.2 m date which was January 2013.
1.2% per annum Societa Mercato Titoli di Stato S. p. A. nil nil Six months from initial utilisation EURIBOR plus nil 0.3 m date which was 1 August 2013.
1.2% per annum LSE Reg Holdings Limited 2.7m 0.2m Fifth anniversary of the initial EURIBOR plus nil nil utilisation date which was 1.2% per annum December 2013.
LSE Reg Holdings Limited 0.4m 1.3m Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil utilisation date which was 1.2% per annum December 2013.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 55.7m 49.8m Fifth anniversary of the EURIBOR plus 0.6m 0.8m initial utilisation date which 1.5% per annum was April 2012.
London Stock Exchange C Limited 8.6m 2.8m Fifth anniversary of the LIBOR plus 0.1m nil initial utilisation date which 1.5% per annum was April 2012.
London Stock Exchange Group $5.8m nil Fifth anniversary of the initial LIBOR plus nil nil Holdings Luxembourg Ltd utilisation date which was 1.5% per annum December 2014.
During the period, the Company charged in respect of employee share schemes 1.5 million year ended 31 March 2014: 5.3 million to London Stock Exchange plc, 0.1 million year ended 31 March 2014: 0.2 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Inc, 0.1 million year ended 31 March 2014: 0.1 million to London Stock Exchange OV Limited, 0.1 million year ended 31 March 2014: nil to Turquoise Global Holdings Limited, nil year ended 31 March 2014: 0.1 million to UnaVista Limited, 0.7 million year ended 31 March 2014: 2.7 million to London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Ltd, 0.2 million year ended 31 March 2014: 1.0 million to Millennium Information, 0.2 million year ended 31 March 2014: 2.0 million to FTSE Group and 1.4 million year ended 31 March 2014: 0.2 million to LCH.
The Company received dividends of 156.0 million year ended 31 March 2014: 118.2 million and nil year ended 31 March 2014: 60.0 million, respectively, from its subsidiaries London Stock Exchange plc and London Stock Exchange Group Holdings Italy Limited.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Gr Gro ou up p fi fin na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Notes to the financial statements 163 35.
Other Statutory Information On 12 June 2014, the Group appointed Ernst & Young LLP as its external auditor, replacing  LLP.
Auditors' remuneration payable to Ernst and Young LLP and its associates for the current period and to  LLP and its associates for the prior year comprise the following: Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 m m Audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.5 Audit of subsidiary companies 1.0 1.1 Audit related assurance services 0.3 0.4 Other non-audit services: Taxation 0.1 0.6 Corporate finance 0.2 Other assurance services 0.1 Total expenses 2.2 2.8 Excluded from the table above, during the period ended 31 December 2014,  LLP and its associates charged 0.9 million in relation to their audits of material subsidiaries of the Group, and 1.5 million in relation to non-audit services.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, Ernst & Young LLP and its associates charged 0.6 million in relation to their audits of material subsidiaries of the Group and 0.6 million in relation to non-audit services.
Further details of the services provided by Ernst and Young LLP are given in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 74-77.
Directors emoluments comprise the following: Period ended 31 Year ended 31 December 2014 March 2014 m m Salary and fees 2.5 3.4 Performance bonus 2.1 2.7 Gains made on share awards 5.2 4.8 Benefits 0.3 0.4 10.1 11.3 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 0.5 0.7 10.6 12.0 During the period, one Director year ended 31 March 2014: one had retirement benefits accruing under defined contribution schemes and one Director year ended 31 March 2014: one had retirement benefits accruing under a defined benefit scheme.
Further details of Directors' emoluments are included in the Rmuneration Report on pages 80-109.
Events after the reporting period On 5 February 2015, the Group announced the completion of the comprehensive review focused principally on assessing the strategic fit of Russell Investment Management with the Groups long term strategy.
After careful consideration, the conclusion of the comprehensive review is to explore a sale of this business in its entirety.
The Group has already received a number of expressions of interest in a potential acquisition of Russell Investment Management reflecting the high quality of its business and market leading positions.
A sale process of the business has now commenced.
79 On 4 March 2015, the Board approved the allotment and issue of 225,476 ordinary shares of 6 86p each in the Company to satisfy options granted under the Companys Save-As-You-Earn and International Sharesave Plans.
