OTHER INFORMATION 120 Mans literary sponsorships Man sponsors two major literary prizes the annual Man Booker Prize for Fiction and the biennial Man Booker International Prize Man has sponsored the Man Booker Prize since 2002.
Launched in 1969, the prize receives worldwide recognition and aims to promote excellence in fiction by awarding the best full-length novel published in the English language that year.
2014 saw the introduction of new rules, expanding the prize to include entries from writers of all nationalities, writing originally in English and published in the UK.
Winning the Man Booker Prize is considered the ultimate accolade bymany writers.
As former prize-winner Graham Swift commented: Prizes dont make writers and writers dont writeto win prizes, but in the near-glut of literary awards now on offer its the one which, ifwerecompletely honest, we most covet.
Tasmanian born writer Richard Flanagan won the 2014 Man Booker Prize for Fiction with his novel The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Named after the famous Japanese book by the haiku poet Basho, Flanagans novel is described by the 2014 judges as a harrowing account of the cost of war to all who are caught up in it.
Flanagan was presented with the prize by the Duchess of Cornwall and Mans Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel Roman, on 14 October 2014, at Guildhall.
Janie Airey The Man Booker International Prize is awarded every two years to a living author who has published fiction either originally in English or whose work is generally available in translation in English.
It differs from the annual Man Booker Prize in that it highlights one writers overall contribution to fiction on the world stage, rather than a single work.
The 2013 prize went to US author Lydia Davis.
Sponsorship of the prizes underscores Man Groups charitable focus onliteracy and education as well as the firms commitment to excellence and entrepreneurship.
Together with the wider charitable activities of the Booker Prize Foundation, the prizes play a very important role in promoting literary excellence on a global scale that the firm is honoured to support.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
