146 Glossary Active player days aggregate number of days in the given period in which active players have contributed to rake and or placed a wager.
This can be calculated by multiplying average active players by the number of days in the period active player or active real money in relation to the Groups products, a player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager average active players or Daily average players the daily average number of players who contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the given period.
This can be calculated by dividing active player days in the given period, by the number of days in that period B2B business-to-business B2C business-to-consumer Board or Directors the Directors listed on the Companys website, www.
com bwin bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, its subsidiaries and its associated companies bwin.
party digital entertainment plc, the name of the Group formed by the Merger of PartyGaming Plc and bwin Interactive Entertainment AG Cashcade Cashcade Limited and its subsidiaries Clean EBITDA and Clean EPS EBITDA adjusted for exchange differences, reorganisation expenses, income or expenses that relate to exceptional items, and non-cash charges relating to impairments and share-based payments Company or PartyGaming or bwin.
party PartyGaming Plc prior to completion of the Merger and bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin.
party after the Merger EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Employee Trust the bwin.
party Shares Trust, a discretionary share ownership trust established by the Company in which the potential beneficiaries include all of the current and former employees and self-employed consultants of the Group Foxy Bingo www.
com, one of Europes largest active bingo sites that was acquired as part of the purchase of Cashcade FTSE4good Index Series a benchmark of tradeable indices for responsible investors.
The index is derived from the globally recognised FTSE Global Equity Index Series Gioco Digitale www.
it, one of the Groups principal bingo websites gross win margin gross win as a percentage of the amount wagered gross win customer stakes less customer winnings gross gaming revenue or GGR gross win added to rake Group or bwin.
party Group the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings IAS International Accounting Standards IASB International Accounting Standards Board IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards InterTrader Our financial markets service, formerly known as PartyMarkets.
com Kalixa The Groups payments business KPIs Key Performance Indicators such as active player days and yield per active player day Merger the merger of bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and PartyGaming Plc that was completed on 31 March 2011, accounted for under IFRS 3 as an acquisition of bwin new player sign-ups new players who register on the Groups real money sites partycasino www.
com, the Groups principal casino website partypoker www.
com, the Groups principal poker website player or unique active player Customers who placed a wager or generated rake in the period PXP PXP Solutions, a private company with a 27-year track record in the card payment processing sector rake the money charged by the Group for each qualifying poker hand played on its websites in accordance with the prevailing and applicable rake structure real money sign-ups or sign-ups new players who have registered and deposited funds into an account with real money gambling where money is wagered, as opposed to play money where no money is wagered Shareholders holders of Shares in the Company Shares the ordinary shares of 0.015 pence each in the capital of the Company sports betting placing bets on sporting events UIGEA the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act that was enacted in the US on 13 October 2006 wager a bet on a game or sporting event WIN the Groups Social Gaming business unit established in May 2012 WPT the business and substantially all of the assets of The World Poker Tour acquired by the Group on 9 November 2009 yield per active player day net revenue in the period divided by the number of active player days in that period bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Design and production by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by Pureprint Annual report & accounts 2014 F For or m mor ore e i in nf for orm ma at ti ion on v vi isit sit u us s o onl nli in ne e a at t w ww ww w.. bw bwin inp pa ar rt ty y.. co com m
