JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 36 36 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for annual report and the accounts in accordance with safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence applicable law and regulations.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under Under applicable law and regulations the Directors that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, financial statements in accordance with United Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and Statement of Corporate Governance that comply United Kingdom Accounting Standards and with that law and those regulations.
Under Company law the Directors Each of the Directors, whose names and functions must not approve the financial statements unless are listed in the Directors Report confirms that, to they are satisfied that taken as a whole, the annual the best of his her knowledge the financial report and accounts are fair, balanced and statements, which have been prepared in accordance understandable, provide the information necessary with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting for shareholders to assess the Companys Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and performance, business model and strategy and that applicable law, give a true and fair view of the they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of assets, liabilities, financial position and net return or the Company and of the total return or loss of the loss of the Company.
In order to provide these The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the confirmations, and in preparing these financial development and performance of the business and statements, the Directors are required to: position of the Company, together with a description select suitable accounting policies and then apply of the principle risks and uncertainties that it faces.
them consistently: The financial statements are published on the make judgements and estimates that are www.
co. uk website, which is maintained reasonable and prudent: by the Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of state whether applicable UK Accounting the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Standards have been followed, subject to any Kingdom governing the preparation and material departures disclosed and explained in dissemination of financial statements may differ from the financial statements: and legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepare the financial statements on a going The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the annual concern basis unless it is inappropriate to report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, presume that the Company will continue in balanced and understandable and provide the business information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategy and business model of the Company.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and For and on behalf of the Board explain the Companys transactions and disclose with Hamish Leslie Melville reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Chairman position of the Company and to enable them to 2nd April 2014 ensure that the financial statements comply with the
