JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 62 62 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Meeting of the Company held in 2014 unless Notice is hereby given that the one renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, hundred and twenty eighth Annual save that the Company may before such expiry General Meeting of The Mercantile make offers or agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be Investment Trust plc will be held at granted after such expiry and so that the Trinity House, Tower Hill, London Directors of the Company may allot shares and EC3N 4DH on 21st May 2014 at grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby 12 noon for the following purposes: had not expired.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of ended 31st January 2014. relevant securities Special Resolution 11.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy.
out above, the Directors of the Company be 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report and they are hereby empowered pursuant to for the year ended 31st January 2014.
Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 4.
To re-elect Hamish Leslie Melville as a Director of of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority the Company.
conferred by Resolution 10 as if Section 561 1 5.
To re-elect Sandy Nairn as a Director of the of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, Company.
provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an 6.
To re-elect Ian Russell as a Director of the aggregate nominal amount of 1,228,008 Company.
representing approximately 5% of the issued 7.
To re-elect Helen James as a Director of the share capital as at the date of the passing of this Company.
resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the 8.
To re-elect Jeremy Tigue as a Director of the expiry of the general authority conferred by Company.
Resolution 10 above, save that the Company may 9.
To reappoint  LLP as before such expiry make offers or agreements auditors to the Company and to authorise the which would or might require equity securities Directors to determine their remuneration.
to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the Company may allot equity Special Business: securities in pursuant of such offers or To consider the following resolution: agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special are hereby generally and unconditionally Resolution authorised, in substitution of any authorities 12.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in and in accordance with Section 551 of the accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the market purchases within the meaning of powers of the Company to allot shares in the Section 693 of the Act of its issued shares on Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or such terms and in such manner as the Directors to convert any security into, shares in the may from time to time determine.
Company rights up to an aggregate nominal PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT amount of 1,228,008, representing i the maximum number of ordinary shares approximately 5% of the Companys issued share hereby authorised to be purchased shall be capital as at the date of the passing of this 14,726,283 or if less, that number of ordinary resolution, provided that this authority shall shares which is equal to 14.99% of the expire at the conclusion of the Annual General JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 63 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 63 Notes Companys issued share capital as at the date These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the of the passing of this Resolution: reverse of the proxy form.
ii the minimum price which may be paid for an 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint another person s who need not be a member of the ordinary share shall be 25p: Company to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak iii the maximum price which may be paid for an and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than ordinary share or unit shall be an amount one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares equal to the highest of: a 105% of the held by him.
average of the middle market quotations for 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but an ordinary share taken from and calculated must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could by reference to the London Stock Exchange be the Chairman, another director of the Company or another Daily Official List for the five business days person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of immediately preceding the day on which the how to appoint the Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left or b the price of the last independent trade: blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their discretion or c the highest current independent bid: both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made count.
Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you in the market for cash at prices below the from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
prevailing net asset value per ordinary share 3.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be as determined by the Directors : lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form, no later than 12.00 p. m. two business days prior to the v the authority hereby conferred shall expire Meeting i. e. excluding weekends and bank holidays.
on 20th November 2015 unless the authority 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new is renewed at the Companys Annual General proxy appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy Meeting in 2015 or at any other general appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
meeting prior to such time: and Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where vi the Company may make a contract to two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are purchase ordinary shares under the authority received in respect of the same share in respect of the same hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and authority which contract will or may be revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the executed wholly or partly after the expiry of Company is unable to determine which was last received, none such authority and may make a purchase of of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
ordinary shares pursuant to any such 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the contract.
purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. two business Approval of dividend policy Ordinary Resolution days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
THAT the shareholders approve the Companys is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will interim dividends, which in the year under review also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of have totalled 40 pence per share.
members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a By order of the Board longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.00 p. m. Company Secretary two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time 9th April 2014 specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 64 64 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information continued Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to individual s to act as its representative s and to vote in persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy person at the Meeting see instructions given on the proxy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act form.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can 2006, each such representative s may exercise on behalf of not be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can only be the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, have a right under an agreement between him and the provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
Representatives should bring to the If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an under which it is signed.
agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, statement on its website setting out any matter relating to: the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total a the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before exercise voting rights at the AGM, the total voting rights the AGM: or b any circumstances connected with an Auditor members are entitled to exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous AGM: any members statements, members resolutions or members which the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The matters of business received by the Company after the date of Company cannot require the members requesting the this notice will be available on the Companys website publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the www.
website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
in the share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any appointment are available for inspection at the Companys statement that the Company has been required to publish on registered office during usual business hours on any weekday its website pursuant to this right.
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Company must cause to be answered at the AGM any question Director has any contract of service with the Company.
relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice put by a member attending the meeting except in certain of meeting to communicate with the Company for any circumstances, including if it is undesirable in the interests of purposes other than those expressly stated.
the Company or the good order of the meeting or if it would 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Voting Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members electronically by visiting www.
You will need meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the this is the series of numbers printed under your name on the Company entitled to receive notice of the Meeting, notice of a Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form.
Alternatively, if you resolution which those members intend to move and which have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds online portfolio may properly be moved at the Meeting: and or ii to include service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any matter www.
Full instructions are given on both other than a proposed resolution which may properly be websites.
included in the business at the Meeting.
As at 26th March 2014 being the latest business day prior to properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if capital consists of 98,240,719 Ordinary shares, carrying one passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company with any enactment or the Companys constitution or are 98,240,719. otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right Electronic appointment CREST members may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do included in the business, must be accompanied by a statement so for the Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated procedures described in the CREST Manual.
See further by the person s making it and must be received by the instructions on the proxy form.
Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
