JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 65 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 65 Glossary of Terms and Conditions Return on Net Assets include total investments and net current Total return on net asset value NAV per share, assets liabilities less cash cash equivalents and on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all excluding bank loans of less than one year.
If the dividends paid out by the Company were reinvested amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net into the shares of the Company at the NAV per share cash position.
at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value NAV In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable per share which have been declared but which are unpaid at the If the share price of an investment trust is lower than balance sheet date are deducted from the NAV per the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading share when calculating the return on net assets.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of a discount is a Return to Shareholders premium.
It is more common for an investment Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a mid-market price basis, assuming that all dividends premium.
received were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the time the Performance Attribution shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Benchmark Return Total return on the benchmark, on a mid-market Performance Attribution Definitions: value to mid-market value basis, assuming that all Asset Allocation dividends received were reinvested, without Measures the impact of allocating assets differently transaction costs, into the shares of the underlying to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios companies at time the shares were quoted weighting in different countries, sectors or asset ex-dividend.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which Stock Selection should not be taken as wholly representative of the Measures the effect of investing in securities to a Companys investment universe.
The Companys greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the investment strategy does not track this index and benchmark, or of investing in securities which are consequently, there may be some divergence not included in the benchmark.
between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Cash Effect Ongoing Charges Measures the impact on relative performance arising The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys from holding cash balances.
management fee and all other operating expenses Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses excluding finance costs payable, expressed as a The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level percentage of the average of the daily net assets of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on during the year and is calculated in accordance with relative performance.
guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
Interest Expense The method of calculating the Ongoing Charges The payment of interest has a negative effect on 2012: Total Expense Ratio or TER has changed.
TER represented the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses excluding interest, Proposed Dividend Use of Prior Year Revenue Reserve expressed as a percentage of the average of the Measures the negative effect on relative performance month end net assets during the year.
of making dividend distributions in excess of the revenue return after taxation for the year.
Gearing Net Cash Gearing represents the excess amount above Gearing Effect shareholders funds of total assets expressed as a Measures the impact on relative performance arising percentage of the shareholders funds.
JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 66 66 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 2 7 of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an 9 Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 10 5 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 67 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 67 Notes JPM Mercantile pp62 68 JPM Mercantile pp62 68 01 04 2014 11:46 Page 68 68 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Notes
