The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investor Information Appointment of AIFM and Depositary Financial Calendar During the year the Alternative Investment Fund Year end 31 January.
Managers Directive AIFMD came into force.
The Full year results announced and Annual Report aim of the directive was to create a comprehensive posted to shareholders in April.
and effective regulatory and supervisory framework for alternative investment fund managers within Annual general meeting held in May.
Half-yearly Report posted to shareholders in Under AIFMD the company is an Alternative September.
Investment Fund AIF which needs to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and How to Invest a Depositary.
In July 2014 the company announced Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS is one of a that the current manager, Allianz Global Investors number of providers offering a range of products GmbH AllianzGI, was designated the AIFM.
Allianz and services, including Share Plans, ISAs and is authorised to act as an AIFM and to conduct pension products.
ATS also maintains services its activities from its UK Branch by Bundesanstalt including online and telephone-based dealing fr  BaFin, in facilities and online valuations.
More information accordance with AIFMD and Financial Conduct is available from Allianz Global Investors either Authority requirements.
The management fee and via Investor Services on 0800 389 4696 or on the the notice period are unchanged in the restated trusts website: www.
co. uk, or Management and Administration Agreement from Alliance Trust Savings Customer Services details in note 2 on page 58.
Department on 01382 573737 or by e-mail: contact@alliancetrust.
The company has also appointed HSBC Bank PLC as its depositary in accordance with AIFMD under A list of other providers can be found at the trusts a depositary agreement between the company, website: www.
This agreement replaced the custody agreement between the company and Ordinary Dividends HSBC Bank PLC.
Depositary fees are charged in It is anticipated that dividends will be paid as addition to custody fees and are calculated on the follows: basis of net assets.
1st quarterly August Leverage and Risk Policies under AIFMD 2nd quarterly November Details of leverage and risk policies required 3rd quarterly February under AIFMD are published on the website www.
These policies represent Final May no change to the boards policies in existence prior to AIFMD and have been put in place to ensure Preference Dividends that these limits would not be breached under any Payable half-yearly 1 February and 1 August.
Benchmark Remuneration Disclosure The companys benchmark is the FTSE 100 Index.
Certain details of the AIFMs remuneration information are required to be disclosed in the annual reports of AIFs under AIFMD and this will be reported in next years Annual Financial Report when a full reporting period is available, in accordance with FCA guidance.
76 Investor Information continued The companys ordinary Market and Portfolio Information Registrars shares are listed on the The companys ordinary shares are listed on the Capita Asset Services, The Registry, London Stock Exchange.
The market price range, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU The market price range, gross yield and net asset gross yield and net asset value are shown daily Telephone: 020 8639 3399. value are shown daily in in the Financial Times and The Daily Telegraph Lines are open 9.00 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. the Financial Times under the headings Investment Companies and London time Monday to Friday.
and The Daily Telegraph Investment Trusts, respectively.
The net asset Email: ssd@capita.
co. uk under the headings Investment Companies value of the ordinary shares is calculated daily Website: www.
com and Investment Trusts, and published on the London Stock Exchange respectively.
The geographical spread Shareholder Enquiries of investments and ten largest holdings are In the event of queries regarding their holdings published monthly on the London Stock Exchange of shares, lost certificates, dividend payments, Regulatory News Service.
They are also available registered details, etc.
shareholders should contact from the managers Investors Helpline on 0800 the registrars on 020 8639 3399.
Lines are open 389 4696 or via the companys website: www.
9.00 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. London time Monday merchantstrust.
Calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
Website Changes of name and address must be notified Further information about The Merchants Trust to the registrars in writing.
Any general enquiries PLC, including monthly fact sheets, daily share price about the company should be directed to the and performance, is available on the companys Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, 199 website: www.
Telephone: 020 7065 1513. Dividend The board is recommending a final distribution of Dividend Reinvestment Plan for Ordinary 6.0p to be payable on 22 May 2015 to shareholders Shareholders DRIP on the Register of Members at the close of business The registrars offer a DRIP which gives ordinary on 24 April 2015, making a total distribution of shareholders the opportunity to use their cash 23.8p per share for the year ended 31 January 2015, dividend to buy further shares in the company an increase of 0.8% over last years distribution.
The under a low-cost dealing arrangement.
Terms and ex dividend date is 23 April 2015.
Conditions and an application form are enclosed Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to firstwith each dividend payment.
named shareholders at their registered address together with a tax voucher.
Dividends Share Dealing Services may be paid directly into shareholders bank Capita Asset Services operate an online and accounts.
Details of how this may be arranged can telephone dealing facility for UK resident be obtained from Capita Asset Services.
Dividends shareholders with share certificates.
Stamp duty mandated in this way are paid via Bankers and commission may be payable on transactions.
Tax vouchers For further information on these services please will then be sent directly to shareholders at their contact: www.
com for online dealing registered address unless other instructions have been given.
Lines are open 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday London time.
Calls to the 0871 664 0454 number are charged at 10 pence per minute plus any of your service providers network extras.
Different charges may apply to calls made from mobile telephones and calls may be recorded and monitored randomly for security and training purposes.
77 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investor Information continued Capita Asset Services For further information on these services please Share Portal offer shareholders a free contact: 020 8639 3405.
Lines are open between Capita Asset Services offer shareholders a free online service called The 9.00am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday London online service called The Share Portal, enabling Share Portal, enabling time or email IPS@capita.
shareholders to access shareholders to access a comprehensive range a comprehensive range of shareholder related information.
Through The of shareholder related Association of Investment Share Portal, shareholders can: view their current information.
and historical shareholding details: obtain an Companies AIC Capita Asset Services indicative share price and valuation: amend address The company is a member of the AIC, the trade operate an international details: view details of dividend payments: and body of the investment trust industry, which payment service for apply for dividends to be paid directly to a bank or provides a range of literature including fact sheets shareholders, whereby change existing bank details.
Copies of these they can elect either for their dividend to be publications can be obtained from the AIC, 9th Shareholders can access these services at www.
paid by foreign currency Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY, or at capitaassetservices.
com and selecting Share draft or they can request www.
an international bank Portal shareholders from the drop down menu, mandate.
or alternatively via the Portals: Quick Links, and AIC Category: UK Equity Income.
Shareholders will need to register for a Share Portal Account by completing Warning to Shareholders an on-screen registration form.
An email address is We are aware that some shareholders may required.
have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment CREST Proxy Voting matters.
These are typically from overseas based Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST organisations who target UK shareholders offering may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting to sell them, what often turn out to be, worthless Service in accordance with the procedures set out or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
can be extremely persistent and persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary International Payment Services of any unsolicited advice or offers.
Capita Asset Services operate an international Please note that it is most unlikely that either the payment service for shareholders, whereby they company or the companys Registrar, Capita Asset can elect either for their dividend to be paid by Services, would make unsolicited telephone calls foreign currency draft or they can request an to shareholders.
Any such calls would only ever international bank mandate.
This service is only relate to official documentation already circulated available for dividend payments of 10 or more.
to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
The International Payment Service will generally cost less than the fees charged by your local bank If you are in any doubt about the veracity of to convert your sterling dividend into your local an unsolicited telephone call, please call either currency.
A 5 administration fee per dividend the Company Secretary or the Registrar on the payment applies.
Your dividends are paid as cleared numbers provided above.
funds directly into your bank or sent to you as a draft.
Capita Asset Services, working in partnership with Deutsche Bank, will arrange for your dividend to be exchanged into your local currency at competitive rates based on actual market rates.
To use this service you will need to register online at: www.
com international or by contacting Capita as detailed below.
