The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2015 1 The financial statements The financial statements have Commissions in respect of underwriting are recognised when been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for the underwritten issue closes and are generally recognised the measurement at fair value through profit or loss of within the Income Statement as revenue.
Where, however, investments and derivative financial instruments, and in the company is required to take up a proportion of the accordance with applicable accounting standards, the shares underwritten, the same proportion of the commission United Kingdom Law and United Kingdom Generally received is recognised as capital, with the balance recognised Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, the Companies as revenue.
Act 2006 and the Statement of Recommended Practice - Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and 3 Investment management fees and administration expenses Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued in January 2009 by the The investment management fee is calculated on the basis Association of Investment Companies AIC.
set out in note 2 to the financial statements and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the boards In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust investment policy and prospective split of capital and income company and in accordance with guidance issued by the returns.
The split is reviewed annually.
Other administration AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Income expenses are charged in full to revenue, except custodian Statement between items of revenue and capital nature handling charges on investment transactions which are has been presented alongside the Income Statement.
All expenses are recognised on an accruals accordance with the companys Articles, net capital returns basis.
may not be distributed by way of dividend.
The accounting policies adopted in preparing the current 4 Valuation As the companys business is investing in years financial statements are consistent with those of financial assets with a view to profiting from their total previous years.
return in the form of increases in fair value, financial assets are designated as held at fair value through profit or loss in The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial and Measurement.
The company manages and evaluates statements as the assets of the company consist mainly of the performance of these investments on a fair value basis securities which are readily realisable and significantly exceed in accordance with its investment strategy, and information liabilities.
Accordingly, the directors believe that the company about the investments is provided on this basis to the board of has adequate financial resources to continue in operational directors.
existence for the foreseeable future.
The companys business, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, together with the Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are factors likely to affect its future development, performance initially recognised at fair value.
After initial recognition, these and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages continue to be measured at fair value, which for quoted 10 to 14. investments is either the bid price or the last traded price depending on the convention of the exchange on which 2 Income Franked, unfranked and overseas dividends received the investment is listed.
Gains or losses on investments are on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis.
recognised in the capital column of the Income Statement.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date which the company commits to Special dividends are recognised on an ex-dividend basis purchase or sell the assets.
and treated as a capital or revenue item depending on the facts and circumstances of each dividend.
The board reviews After initial recognition unquoted stocks are valued by the special dividends and their treatment at each meeting.
Where the company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable is accounted for on an accruals basis.
56 Statement of Accounting Policies continued for the year ended 31 January 2015 5 Derivatives Options may be purchased or written over A deferred tax asset is recognised when it is more likely securities held in the portfolio for generating or protecting than not that the asset will be recoverable.
Deferred tax capital returns, or for generating or maintaining revenue is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rate of returns.
Where the purpose of the option is the maintenance corporation tax that is expected to apply when the timing of capital the premium is treated as a capital item.
The value differences are expected to reverse.
of the option is subsequently marked to market to reflect the fair value of the option based on traded prices.
When an 8 Foreign currency In accordance with FRS 23 The Effect of option is closed out or exercised the gain or loss is accounted changes in Foreign Currency Exchanges Rates, the company for as capital.
is required to nominate a functional currency, being the currency in which the company predominately operates.
Where the purpose of the option is the generation of income, The functional and reporting currency is sterling, reflecting the premium is treated as a revenue item.
The value of the primary economic environment in which the company the option is subsequently marked to market to reflect the operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated fair value of the option based on traded prices.
Premiums into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the received on written options are amortised to revenue over the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities period to expiry.
If an option is exercised early unamortised are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling premiums are taken to capital.
at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses thereon are recognised in the capital column of the income statement 6 Finance costs In accordance with the FRS 25 Financial and taken to the capital reserve.
Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, long 9 Dividends In accordance with FRS 21 Events After term borrowings are stated at the amortised cost being the the Balance Sheet Date, the final dividend proposed on amount of net proceeds on issue plus accrued finance costs ordinary shares is recognised as a liability when approved by to date.
Finance costs are calculated over the term of the debt shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised only when on the effective interest rate basis.
Where debt is issued at a premium, the premium is amortised over the term of the debt on the effective interest rate basis.
10 Shares repurchased for cancellation and for holding in treasury For shares repurchased for cancellation, Finance costs net of amortised premiums are charged to share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the boards shares repurchased, and the capital redemption reserve investment policy and prospective split of capital and revenue is correspondingly increased in accordance with section returns.
The full cost of the repurchase is Dividends payable on the 3.65% cumulative preference stock charged to the capital reserve within Gains, Losses on Sales of are classified as an interest expense and are charged in full to Investments.
For shares repurchased for holding in treasury, the full cost is charged to the Capital Reserve.
7 Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses 11 Shares sold reissued from treasury Proceeds received is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal from the sale of shares held in treasury are treated as realised basis using the companys effective rate of corporation tax for profits in accordance with Section 731 of the Companies Act the accounting period.
Proceeds equivalent to the original cost, calculated by Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing applying a weighted average price, are credited to the Capital differences that have originated but not reversed at the Reserve to replenish the profits available for distribution: balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result proceeds in excess of the original cost are credited to the in an obligation to pay more tax or a right to pay less tax in share premium account the future have occurred.
Timing differences are differences between the companys taxable profits and its results as 12 Shares issued Share capital is increased by the nominal stated in the financial statements.
The proceeds in excess of the nominal value of shares net of expenses are allocated to the share premium account.
