The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Financial Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business Company law requires the directors to prepare financial model and strategy.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with The financial statements are published on www.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United co. uk, which is a website maintained by the companys Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The directors are responsible for law also requires that the directors must not approve the financial the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
The statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair work undertaken by the auditors does not involve consideration view of the state of affairs of the company and of the net return of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have statements, the directors are required to: occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware select suitable accounting policies and then apply them that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation consistently: and dissemination of financial statements may differ from make judgements and accounting estimates that are legislation in other jurisdictions.
reasonable and prudent: Statement under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
12 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been The directors at the date of approval of this report, each confirm to followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and the best of their knowledge that: explained in the financial statements.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company: continue in business.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development The directors confirm that they have complied with the above and performance of the business and the position of the requirements in preparing the financial statements.
company, together with a description of the principal risks and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting uncertainties that they face: and records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration performance, business model and strategy.
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of For and on behalf of the board fraud and other irregularities.
The directors each have a duty to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors have been made aware of that information.
A disclosure stating that each director has complied with that duty is given in the Directors Report.
