Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of The ii the authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an Merchants Trust PLC will be held the offices of J. P. Morgan, offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which Old School Building, 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after on Wednesday 20 May 2015 at 12 noon to transact the following such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in business.
pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
Ordinary Business 12 That the directors be empowered in accordance with 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the Financial section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot Statements for the year ended 31 January 2015 together with equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the the Auditors Report thereon.
Act either for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if sub- 2 To declare a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share.
section 1 of section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such 3 To re-elect Simon Fraser as a director.
allotment provided that: 4 To re-elect Mike McKeon as a director.
i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to a maximum number of 5 To elect Mary Ann Sieghart as a director.
10,872,846 ordinary shares: 6 To elect Sybella Stanley as a director.
ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or 7 To re-elect Paul Yates as a director.
renewed expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after this resolution is passed, or 20 8 To approve the Directors Remuneration Implementation August 2016 if earlier: and Report.
iii the said power shall allow and enable the directors to make 9 To reappoint  LLP as Auditors of an offer or agreement before the expiry of that power which the company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next would or might require equity securities to be allotted after general meeting at which financial statements are laid before such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in the company.
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if that power had not 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of expired.
13 That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section Special Business 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act Resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the company resolutions 12, 13 and 14 as special resolutions: ordinary shares, either for retention as treasury shares or for cancellation provided that: 11 That for the purposes of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the directors be generally and unconditionally i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot to be purchased shall be 16,298,396: relevant securities within the meaning of the said section ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share up to a maximum number of 36,242,821 ordinary shares is 25p: provided that: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share i the authority granted shall expire one year from the date is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middleupon which this resolution is passed but may be revoked market quotations for an ordinary share taken from the or varied by the company in general meeting and may be London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days renewed by the company in general meeting for a further immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share period not exceeding one year: and is purchased or such other amount as may be specified by the London Stock Exchange from time to time: 79 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Notice of Meeting continued iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion 5.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the office of the of the annual general meeting of the company in 2016 or, if registrars at least 48 hours excluding non-business days earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this before the meeting.
resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such 6.
Shares held in uncertificated form i. e. in CREST may be time: and voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance v the company may make a contract to purchase ordinary with the procedures set out in the CREST manual on the shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the Euroclear website www.
expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly 7.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make purpose of determination by the company of the number a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the 14 To adopt new Articles of Association.
companys Register of Members by 6pm on 18 May 2015 the record date.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the record date applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting Kirsten Salt is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Company Secretary members must be entered on the companys Register of 199 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 3TY Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed 13 April 2015 for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives new notice of the adjourned meeting, at the record date specified in that notice.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose 1.
Members entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may shares are held on their behalf by another person and who appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their have been nominated to receive communications from the stead by completion of a personalised form of proxy.
Full company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies details on how to complete the form of proxy are set out on Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have the form of proxy.
The proxy need not be a member of the a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder company.
who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
A proxy must vote in accordance with any instructions given nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish by the member by whom the proxy is appointed.
A proxy has to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement one vote on a show of hands in all cases including where one to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the member has appointed multiple proxies, except where he exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact she is appointed by multiple members who instruct him to the registered member by whom they were nominated in vote in different ways, in which case he she only has one vote respect of these arrangements.
for and one vote against the resolution.
Corporate representatives are entitled to attend and vote on 3.
A personalised form of proxy is provided with the Annual behalf of the corporate member in accordance with section Report.
Any replacement forms must be requested direct 323 of the Companies Act 2006.
Pursuant to the Companies from the registrar.
Completion of the form of proxy does not exclude a member multiple corporate representatives appointed by the same from attending the meeting and voting in person.
corporate member can vote in different ways provided they are voting in respect of different shares.
Members have a right under section 319A of the Companies 13.
As at 10 April 2015, the latest practicable date before Act 2006 to require the company to answer any question this notice is given, the total number of ordinary shares raised by a member at the AGM, which relates to the and preference stock in the company in respect of which business being dealt with at the meeting, although no members are entitled to exercise voting rights was answer need be given a if to do so would interfere unduly 108,728,464 ordinary shares of 25p each and 1,178,000 3.65% with the preparation of the meeting or involve disclosure of Cumulative Preference Stock of 1 each.
Each carries the right confidential information: b if the answer has already been to one vote and therefore, the total number of voting rights in given on the companys website: or c it is undesirable in the company is 109,906,464. the best interests of the company or the good order of the 14.
Further information regarding the meeting which the meeting.
company is required by section 311A of the Companies 12.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the Companies Act 2006 can require the company, at its expense, meeting including this notice, can be accessed at www.
to publish a statement on the company website setting merchantstrust.
out any matter which relates to the audit of the companys 15.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the directors, accounts that are to be laid before the meeting.
Any such who hold office in accordance with the companys Articles.
statement must also be sent to the companys auditors no later than the time it is made available on the website and must be included in the business of the meeting.
Annual General Meeting venue 60 Victoria Embankment 81 The Merchants Trust PLC 199 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3TY Tel: 44 0 20 7859 9000 www.
