Directors remuneration report continued What is in the rest of this report?
Policy report As a result of the new UK regulations on directors remuneration, this This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Directors remuneration report must follow a fairly prescribed format.
remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in We have sought to make it easier to understand by including tables accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and and charts.
The following two sections of the report include: Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The Policy report, which summarises the framework for Amendment Regulations 2013.
The policy has been developed remuneration and each of its elements, and which will be proposed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance to shareholders for a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting Code and the views of our major shareholders.
The Policy report AGM on 25 July 2014 will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and the policy will take formal eff ect from that date.
An Annual report on remuneration, which provides details on the following: What is the role of the Remuneration Committee Implementation of remuneration policy for financial year in setting policy?
2014 15 The Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive The remuneration earned in respect of performance during the Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee is cognisant financial year 2013 14, along with details of any share awards of the need to recruit and retain executives of the highest calibre made during the year and the Committee seeks to ensure that the remuneration policy The Annual report on remuneration will be put to shareholders for ful ls this need and allows for individuals to be properly motivated an advisory vote at the AGM on 25 July 2014. to perform in the best interests of the Company.
At the same time, the Committee seeks to formulate a remuneration policy The Committee, on behalf of the Board, actively seeks to engage with that ensures that no more than is appropriate is paid.
In addition, it shareholders and values highly the contribution their views can make is a key part of the Committees role to ensure that an appropriate in the process of formulating remuneration policy decisions.
During balance is maintained between reward and risk.
the year, the Committee engaged with the Companys major shareholders on a number of remuneration issues, including the The Committees terms of reference are available on the remuneration package for Phil Bentley, annual bonus, LTIP philosophy Companys website at www.
and the policy table within the Policy report.
The shareholders who replied were broadly supportive of the matters discussed and we How are the views of shareholders taken into account?
incorporated some of the suggestions received.
The Committees The Committee actively seeks to engage with shareholders and intention is that this Directors remuneration report clearly values highly the contribution their views can make in the process of demonstrates that we are committed to fostering an environment formulating remuneration policy decisions.
The Committee considers where remuneration is strongly linked to performance and where our shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year.
This Executive Directors are aligned with our shareholders.
We strongly feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, is believe that focusing on these factors will play a crucial role in considered as part of the Companys ongoing review of remuneration ensuring the future success of the Company, particularly at policy.
this critical time of change in the organisation.
In addition, when it is proposed that any material changes are to be The Committee would welcome any feedback you have.
made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will Simon Ball off er a meeting in order that their views can be properly re ected in Remuneration Committee Chairman any deliberations on policy formulation.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report, and a summary of key matters discussed with major shareholders during the year, are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
