Directors remuneration report continued Award granted to Phil Bentley in the year cost option awards.
A dividend award supplement will apply in The initial award to the new Chief Executive Offi cer has been accordance with the rules of the plan.
structured to take account of the signi cant uncertainty, at the time In addition to reviewing performance against the targets set out in the of his recruitment, over the future structuring of incentives at the above table, the Committee will also consider whether the underlying Company and the need to create a competitive package to enable performance of the Group warrants release of the shares.
Phil Bentley has made a very signi cant investment of reduce the vesting percentage if appropriate.
In considering 3x his salary in the Companys shares which he has undertaken to underlying performance, the Committee may take account of though retain for at least the next three years.
not necessarily in isolation the following metrics: revenue, EBITDA, The share price for the award is 0.5597, being the average share operational spending, cost of sales, capital expenditure and quantum price of the Company for the five business days commencing on and timing of cash ows.
The Performance Share Awards were granted in the form of restricted share awards.
A dividend award supplement Share ownership will apply in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Directors interests in shares as at 31 March 2014 are set out in the table on page 75.
As at that date, the Executive Directors Awards granted to Tony Rice, Tim Pennington and Nick Cooper shareholding requirements had been exceeded by Tim Pennington, in the year but had not been met by the other serving Executive Directors.
For the purposes of awards, TSR will be calculated using a one month Where the holding is not already attained it is required to be achieved average share price at the beginning and end of the performance through retention of shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax period in order to moderate the eff ect of short-term volatility.
The basis from share plans.
share price for each award is 0.4438, being the average share price There has not been any change in the Directors interests in shares of the Company for the five business days commencing on 22 May from 31 March 2014 to 20 May 2014.
The Performance Share Awards were granted in the form of nil 74 Cable & Wireless Communications
