Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance m The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the approved policy, but with the opportunity for the year of joining 5 pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set 4.5 diff erent performance measures and targets initially.
4,368k For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element 37% 4 awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other on-going remuneration 3.5 obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
3 For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as 2,568k appropriate.
27% 2.5 16% For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 2 23% remuneration policy in force at that time.
1,612k 1,568k 1.5 100% 61% 36% Service contracts and loss of offi ce payments Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors 70% 1,049k 1 agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The 54% Companys policy is that Executive Directors will be employed on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no more 0.5 487k than 12 months notice, with the Executive Director required to give 100% 46% 30% 12 months notice of termination.
0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and Corporate Services Director without any further payment or compensation, except for sums CEO earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the termination taking into account the individuals performance and Fixed pay comprises salary effective 1 April 2014, benets paid for financial year 2013 14 an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into including cash allowances and expatriate benets relating to living working in Miami and annualised for the CEO and pension of 25% of base salary.
account by the Committee when determining amounts payable on or following termination.
The Committees normal policy is to reduce Minimum performance below threshold xed pay only compensatory payments to former Executive Directors where they On-target performance in line with expectations receive remuneration from other employment during the xed pay compensation period.
The Committee will consider the particular target bonus 50% of maximum opportunity circumstances of each leaver on a case by case basis and retains vesting of 25% of the maximum under the LTIP exibility as to at what point, and to what extent payments would Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum xed pay be reduced.
maximum bonus 100% of maximum opportunity maximum vesting under LTIP Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards would lapse on Approach to recruitment and promotions cessation of employment.
However, under the rules of the LTIP, The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, redundancy, be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved disability, retirement, the company business unit employing him remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment, as detailed ceasing to be part of the Group or other circumstances at the on pages 60 to 63.
This policy limits LTIP awards to 4 x salary in discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
The Committee may performance and the reasons for their departure, good leaver status off er additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers can be applied.
In these circumstances a participants awards vest on a these to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
time pro-rated basis and further are subject to the satisfaction of the Any such payments would be based solely on remuneration relevant performance criteria over the original performance period relinquished when leaving the former employer and would re ect with the balance of the awards lapsing.
as far as possible the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate, Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the to alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the date on which Companys LTIP up to the overall limit of 400% of salary to the performance is calculated, if it feels such decisions are appropriate extent possible.
Awards may also be granted outside of the Companys in the particular circumstances.
If, however, the termination of existing LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
employment is not for one of the speci ed good leaver reasons, and Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to of appointment.
vest, a participants awards lapse in full.
In determining whether an Annual report 2013 14 65
