Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Section fi five Other 5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued Whilst Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially signi cant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third-party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Signi cant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims note 5.5.
Whilst the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Offi cers Pension Fund MNOPF, it may be liable for contributions to fund a portion of any funding fide cits which may occur in the future.
The Group has made arrangements with MNOPF to pay invoices totalling 1.5 million relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF Trustee as at 31 March 2006 and 2009, by instalments over the next six years.
An instalment schedule for the 2012 actuarial fide cit of 0.5 million is currently being negotiated with the Trustee.
It is possible that the MNOPF Trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an actuarially determined funding fide cit.
It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time.
Legal proceedings are discussed in note 5.5.
5.4 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary signi cantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its licences and operating agreements in Antigua & Barbuda and Montserrat.
In October 2013, Cable & Wireless Panama, S. A. renewed its mobile licence agreement for a term running for 20 years from October 2017, when the current mobile licence is due to expire.
As part of the renewal, Cable & Wireless Panama was awarded ongoing rights to existing spectrum allocations together with the grant of additional blocks of spectrum primarily for use in the provision of mobile data services.
In March 2014, Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited renewed its telecommunications licence for a term of 15 years running from March 2015, when the current telecommunications licence is due to expire.
As part of the renewal, Cable & Wireless Jamaica acquired additional mobile and microwave spectrum, primarily for use in the provision of mobile data services.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups current operating jurisdictions and the wider Caribbean and South American regions.
These licence arrangements remain in force despite Vodafone Group Plcs acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in July 2012.
There were no other signi cant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with governments during the periods presented.
5.5 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future out ow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a speci c case is necessary or suffi cient.
Accordingly, signi cant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is diffi cult to predict.
A member of the Group is the defendant to legal proceedings brought against it by an interconnection partner in Jamaica.
The dispute relates to certain amounts claimed by the interconnection partner as due to them.
Management believe that all deductions made by the relevant Group Company from amounts paid to the interconnection partner were validly made in accordance with determinations and orders issued by the relevant local regulator and they are vigorously defending the proceedings.
In addition, even if the interconnection partner is successful on one or more components of the claim, in managements view the amount of damages claimed approximately US$60 million in total is not representative of the loss, if any, suff ered by the interconnection partner.
The trial for the matter is part heard and will continue in late May 2014.
It is not yet known when judgement will be delivered.
