Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components.
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
15 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items within pro t or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identi ed as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
16 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to re ect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any diff erence between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
5.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may diff er signi cantly from those estimates under diff erent assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
These particular policies require subjective and complex assessments, oft en as a result of the need to make estimates about the eff ect of matters that are uncertain.
1 Impairment The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount.
Factors that are considered important and that could trigger an impairment review include the following: Obsolescence or physical damage: Signi cant changes in technology and regulatory environments: Signi cant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: Signi cant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business: Signi cant negative industry or economic trends: and Signi cant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
The Directors also assess the carrying value of the Groups interests in joint ventures and associate undertakings to identify whether there is any objective evidence of impairment.
The identi cation of impairment triggers is a key judgement.
Where an impairment review is required, the Group generally determines recoverable amount based on value in use.
The key estimates used in calculating value in use are the discount rate, revenue growth, operating cost margin and capital expenditure.
Estimates are based on extrapolated approved three-year business plans.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an inde nite life at least annually for impairment.
Note 3.4 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
2 Receivables allowance The impairment allowance for trade receivables re ects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-off s. Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
