Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Section fi five Other 5.2.
3 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the speci c guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and ongoing service, where such items are sold as part of a bundled package.
4 Exceptional items Judgement is required in assessing the classi cation of items as exceptional and assessing the timing of recognising exceptional provisions.
The Group has established criteria for assessing the classi cation and a consistent approach is applied each period.
5 Tax The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be nally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash ow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is oft en dependent on the effi ciency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and oft en do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial diff erences between the tax charge through pro t or loss and tax payments made.
6 Pensions The Group provides several fide ned bene t pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these fide ned bene t pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: The life expectancy of the members: The length of service: The rate of salary progression: The rate used to discount future net pension assets or liabilities: and Future in ation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 3.9.
1 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially aff ect the fide ned bene t schemes liabilities and assets.
5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities 5.3.
1 Commitments A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position since we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
We have a number of commitments, mainly in relation to leases and agreements to buy xed assets.
The amounts below are the minimum we are committed to pay.
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for the continuing Group relating to the purchase of plant and equipment was US$83 million 2012 13 US$59 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$10 million 31 March 2013 US$11 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most signi cant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
144 Cable & Wireless Communications The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2014 is disclosed in note 2.3.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 US$m US$m No later than one year 35 39 Later than one year but not later than five years 76 84 Later than five years 20 18 Total minimum operating lease payments 131 141 5.3.
2 Guarantees Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 50 57 Other guarantees 329 475 Total guarantees 379 532 Trading guarantees Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of property, other leases and letters of credit.
The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF Trustees, under which the Trustees can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
Following the Groups redemption of the 2017 US$500 million secured bond in February 2014 note 4.3, and the consequential decrease in the Groups available secured borrowings, the letters of credit totalling 100 million US$165 million 2012 13 US$152 million in favour of the CWSF Trustees under the Contingent Funding Agreement matured.
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of business disposals.
Consistent with this practice, the Group has given guarantees and indemnities in respect of its disposal business.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the Islands disposal note 2.8.
1 the Group has provided a guarantee for tax and all others liabilities up to a cap of US$300 million.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
The Group no longer provides guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group 2012 13 US$1 million.
3 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future cash out ows where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide now wholly owned by Vodafone Group Plc agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
