Effectiveness of internal control Annual General Meeting The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 25 July 2014 at the systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with Grange Tower Bridge Hotel, 45 Prescot Street, London E1 8GP.
These systems included financial, Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are given operational and compliance controls, along with risk management.
The processes as set out above have been in place for the year under Dividends review and up to the date of this Annual report.
Where appropriate, The Directors recommend a final dividend of US2.67 cents per necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings ordinary share payable on 8 August 2014 to ordinary shareholders and weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
on the register at the close of business on 30 May 2014.
This final The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint dividend, together with the interim dividend of US1.33 cents per ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
share paid by the Company on 10 January 2014, makes a total We monitor our investments and exert our influence through board dividend payment to shareholders of the Company of US4 cents representation where possible.
per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2014.
During the year, several aspects of the business have been reviewed Political donations and expenditure and amended to help strengthen our system of control, transparency The Company does not make and has no intention of making and governance.
These have included the following actions: donations to what are generally regarded as political parties within Delegation of Authority framework this has been reviewed and the European Union.
As a precautionary measure and in the light of updated in light of the restructuring of the Group.
The framework the wide definitions of European Union political organisations for the sets out the matters for which the business units and Group purposes of the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2010 operations are required to seek approval, including those matters AGM permitting the Company to make political donations and incur reserved for the Board political expenditure for a period of four years ending on the earlier Establishment of a Miami operational hub our Miami operational of the 2014 AGM or 20 July 2014.
During the year, the Company did hub has been developed, enabling our senior management to be not exercise its authority granted to it at the 2010 AGM to make located closer to our businesses.
It facilitates faster decision political donations within the European Union.
In aggregate, the making and greater pooling of resources, knowledge and best sum of US$100,916 US$91,126 2012 13 was made to non-EU practice across the Caribbean and Panama political parties by non-EU subsidiary companies during the year.
The authority granted to the Company pursuant to the 2010 Auditor resolution will therefore expire on 20 July 2014 and so the Company So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit intends to propose a similar resolution this year.
The purpose of the information as defined in Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which resolution is to ensure that the Company does not unintentionally the auditors, KPMG LLP, are unaware and the Directors have taken breach the 2006 Act.
The proposed resolution, seeking authority all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and for a four-year period, would remain in force until 24 July 2018 or ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
the 2018 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
Other statutory information Employee communication and disability Directors report The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including The Directors report comprises pages 38 to 46 inclusive of the regular briefings by management, newsletters, emails, radio shows corporate governance section and the other information in this and intranet sites.
These communications help to achieve a common report that is relevant to, and which is incorporated by reference awareness among employees of the financial and operational into, the Directors report.
Pages 2 to 33 inclusive consist of a performance of the Group.
As described in the Corporate Strategic report, through which the Board seeks to present a responsibility and sustainability section Promoting our People on balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, position page 32, this year we are consolidating our employee engagement and prospects.
The Groups results for the financial year are shown across the Group.
in the consolidated income statement on page 88.
Also as described in that section, our employment policies comply In accordance with section 414C 11 of the 2006 Act, the Board has with local requirements and relevant statutes.
In particular, full and chosen to set out in the Strategic report those matters required to fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment be disclosed in the Directors report which it considers to be of and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis strategic importance to the Company, as follows: of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees who Post-balance sheet events page 150 become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where appropriate.
Likely future developments of the Company throughout the Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions page 33 Research and development activities throughout the Strategic report Colleague communication page 32 Annual report 2013 14 43
