4.10 Financial risk management This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies.
We discuss the exposure and sensitivity of the Group to credit, liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing each of these risks including levels of authority on the type and use of financial instruments.
Treasury policy The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk and interest rate risk : credit risk: and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse eff ects on the Groups financial performance.
Day to day management of treasury activities is delegated to the Groups treasury function Treasury, within speci ed financial limits for each type of transaction and counterparty.
To the extent that subsidiaries undertake treasury transactions, these are governed by Group policies and delegated authorities.
Material subsidiary positions are monitored by Treasury.
Where appropriate, transactions are reported to the Board.
All subsidiaries are required to report details of their cash and debt positions to Treasury on a monthly basis.
The key responsibilities of Treasury include funding, investment of surplus cash and the management of interest rate and foreign currency risk.
The majority of the Groups cash resources including facilities and borrowings are managed centrally by Treasury.
The Group may use derivatives including forward foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options, where appropriate, in the management of its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
The use of these instruments is in accordance with strategies agreed from time to time by Treasury and subject to policies approved by the Board.
Derivatives are not used for trading or speculative purposes and derivative transactions and positions are monitored and reported by Treasury on a regular basis and are subject to policies adopted by the Board.
Exchange rate risk The Group trades in many countries and a proportion of its revenue is generated in currencies other than US dollars.
The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to non-dollar currency payments including external dividends, the corporate centre costs and pensions, dividend income from foreign currency denominated subsidiaries, reported pro ts of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries and the net asset carrying value of non-US dollar investments.
Exchange risk is managed centrally by the corporate centre on a matching cash ow basis including forecast foreign currency cash repatriation in ows from subsidiaries and forecast foreign currency payments.
1 for key exchange rates used.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates on a net basis and uses forward foreign exchange contracts and other derivative and financial instruments to reduce the exposures created where currencies do not naturally off set in the short term.
The Group will undertake hedges to minimise the exposure to individual transactions that create signi cant foreign exchange exposures for the Group where appropriate.
Where cost-eff ective and possible, foreign subsidiaries are nanced in their domestic currency to minimise the impact of translation of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
As part of the overall policy of managing the exposure arising from foreign exchange movements relating to the net carrying value of overseas investments, the Group may, from time to time, elect to match certain foreign currency liabilities against the carrying value of foreign investments.
The reported pro ts of the Group are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
Overseas earnings are predominately in US dollars or currencies linked to the US dollar.
However the Group also has overseas earnings in other currencies.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in relation to financial instruments which are not in the functional currency of the entity that holds them.
In broad terms, based on financial assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2014 the impact of a unilateral 10% weakening of the US dollar would have been to decrease pro t from continuing operations by approximately US$42 million at 31 March 2013 US$36 million.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates on its surplus cash balances and variable rate loans although there is a degree of off set between the two.
Treasury may seek to reduce volatility by xing a proportion of this interest rate exposure whilst taking account of prevailing market conditions as appropriate.
At 31 March 2014, 79% 31 March 2013 64% of the Groups loans were at a xed rate.
A reduction in interest rates would have an unfavourable impact upon the fair value of the Groups xed rate loans.
However, no debt is held for trading purposes and it is intended that it will be kept in place until maturity.
As a result, there is no exposure to fair value loss on xed rate borrowings and, as such, its eff ect has not been modelled.
