Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Section one Basis of preparation 1.1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Following the disposal of interests in Macau and the sale of its Islands businesses, the Group operates through three business units being the Caribbean, Panama and Monaco.
On 20 May 2014 we sold our Monaco business unit.
1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes 1.2.
1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2014.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 46 of the Directors and corporate governance report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that aff ect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may diff er from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods aff ected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is signi cant are discussed in note 5.2.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The results of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain bene ts from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and eff ect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group eff ectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses is recognised through pro t or loss.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture and or associate exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
