1.5 Tax The charge for tax is based on the result for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing diff erences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable pro ts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing diff erences can be deducted.
Except where otherwise required by accounting standards, full provision without discounting is made for all timing diff erences that have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
1.6 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
1.7 Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense in the subsidiary companies over the vesting period.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, service, pro tability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original non-market estimates, if any, in the pro t and loss, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
The Company recognises an additional investment in subsidiaries equivalent to the equity instruments granted, being a capital contribution to those subsidiaries.
2 Companys pro t and loss account The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented its own pro t and loss account.
The pro t for the year ended 31 March 2014 amounted to US$1 million 2012 13 US$1 million.
3 Remuneration of Directors Information covering Directors remuneration is disclosed in note 2.3.
3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Interests in shares, share options and pension bene ts are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 56 to 80 and have been borne by a subsidiary company.
4 Staff numbers and costs The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company including Directors during the year was nil 2012 13 nil.
Their costs for the year ended 31 March 2014 were US$nil 2012 13 US$nil.
5 Share-based payments Accounting policy detailed in note 1.7 The details of share option schemes and other share-based plans are disclosed in note 5.7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The total additional investment in subsidiaries relating to equity settled share-based payments was US$6 million 2012 13 US$4 million.
