Notes to the fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 1 Statement of accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards applicable under generally accepted accounting principles in the United Kingdom and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis where appropriate.
These financial statements set out the position of the Company and not the Cable & Wireless Communications Group the Group which it heads.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
The Company is exempt under FRS 29 Financial instruments: Disclosures from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures on the grounds that they are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent standard.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars US$, as this is the functional currency of the Company at 31 March 2014, and rounded to the nearest million.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that aff ect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could diff er from these estimates.
FRS 18 Accounting policies requires that a description of the impact of any change in estimation techniques should be provided where the change has a material impact on the reported results for the year.
1.2 Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are included in the balance sheet at historical cost less any impairments recognised.
Impairment reviews are carried out whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be fully recoverable.
Impairments are determined by comparing the carrying value of the investment in the subsidiary to its recoverable amount, being the higher of the subsidiarys fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash ows arising from the subsidiary with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates which represent the estimated weighted average cost of capital for the Company.
Impairments are recognised in pro t or loss.
1.3 Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities The Company classi es its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Company currently does not hold or classify any financial assets under these categories.
The basis of determining fair values is set out in note 1.4.
Management determines the classi cation of its financial assets at initial recognition in accordance with FRS 26 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Recognition and measurement Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
1.4 Fair value estimation The nominal value less estimated impairments of receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Company for similar financial instruments.
Discounted cash ows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.
