Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Section one Basis of preparation 1.1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Following the disposal of interests in Macau and the sale of its Islands businesses, the Group operates through three business units being the Caribbean, Panama and Monaco.
On 20 May 2014 we sold our Monaco business unit.
1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes 1.2.
1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2014.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 46 of the Directors and corporate governance report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that aff ect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may diff er from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods aff ected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is signi cant are discussed in note 5.2.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The results of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain bene ts from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and eff ect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are considered.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group eff ectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities over which the Group exercises joint control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses is recognised through pro t or loss.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture and or associate exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group considered the implications of the following amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2014: Amendments to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation.
The presentation of other comprehensive income now groups items on the basis of whether they will be potentially reclassi ed to pro t or loss: Revision of IAS 19 Employee bene ts.
The interest cost on plan liabilities and expected return on plan assets have been replaced with a net interest amount on the net fide ned bene t liability using the discount rate: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures Off setting financial assets and financial liabilities: IFRS 13 Fair value measurement Establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and related disclosures: and Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets - Removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the adoption of IFRS 13.
The amendment is not mandatory for accounting periods starting before 1 January 2014, but has been early adopted by the Group for 2013 14.
The above were first eff ective for the Group in the year beginning 1 April 2013 and have been adopted by the Group for 2013 14.
The adoption of IAS 19 Employee bene ts has reduced pro t before tax by US$10 million in 2013 14 and US$8 million in 2012 13.
There was no impact on the balance sheet.
There was no other material impact on the Group upon adoption of any other standards or amendments, other than increased disclosure.
New and amended standards and interpretations endorsed by the EU, to be adopted by the Group for 2014 15: Title Eff ective date Description and impact on the Group IFRS 10 Consolidated Annual periods beginning on or aft er Builds on existing principles of control, providing further financial statements 1 January 2014 guidance where control may be diffi cult to assess.
No impact on the Group is expected.
IFRS 11 Joint Annual periods beginning on or aft er Expands the assessment of joint arrangements to consider arrangements 1 January 2014 all facts and circumstances surrounding the arrangements, in addition to the structure of the arrangement as previously required.
IFRS 12 Disclosures on Annual periods beginning on or aft er Covers all disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in interests in other entities 1 January 2014 other entities.
The disclosures required will be increased in line with the new standard.
There are no other new or amended standards that are considered to have a material impact on the Group.
There are no standards that are not yet eff ective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
