Shareholder information Registrar Financial calendar If you have any queries regarding your shareholding in Cable & Ex-dividend date 28 May 2014 Wireless Communications Plc, please contact: Record date 30 May 2014 Equiniti Aspect House, Spencer Road Last date for election to join dividend Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA reinvestment plan for August 2014 dividend 11 July 2014 1 Telephone 0871 384 2104 UK shareholders Last date for election to receive dividend 44 0 121 415 7052 overseas shareholders in US dollars 11 July 2014 Shareholders can view up-to-date information about their Noti cation of sterling dividend shareholding at www.
co. uk and answers to frequently payment amount 17 July 2014 asked questions can be found at https: help.
co. uk AGM 25 July 2014 ShareGift Payment of final dividend 8 August 2014 If you have a small number of shares whose value makes them uneconomic to sell, you may wish to consider donating them to Announcement of interim results 2014 15 6 November 2014 charity.
ShareGift is a registered charity no.
1052686 which collects and sells unwanted shares and uses the proceeds to support a wide Updates to the financial calendar will be available on the Companys range of UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift and the website www.
com when they become available.
charities it supports is available at www.
org or by contacting them at: Dividends Dividends are declared by the Company in US dollars.
The default 17 Carlton House Terrace payment currency for dividends is sterling and shareholders may elect London SW1Y 5AH to receive payment in US dollars.
The actual sterling amount of any Telephone 44 0 20 7930 3737 dividend payable by the Company from time to time will be based on the sterling US dollar exchange rate in eff ect on a date chosen by the Registered Offi ce and Company Secretary Directors nearer to the relevant payment date.
The Companys Registered Offi ce is: A Currency Mandate Form to receive dividends in US dollars may be 3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square requested from Equiniti or can be found on the Companys website London WC1R 4HQ www.
Any election to receive dividends in US dollars will Telephone 44 0 20 7315 4000 remain in force until cancelled.
Belinda Bradberry is the Company Secretary The table below sets out the US dollar amounts of the interim, final and total gross dividends paid or proposed per ordinary share.
Investor Relations Enquiries may be directed to: Cents per ordinary share Year ended Interim Final Total Head of Investor Relations 3rd Floor, 26 Red Lion Square 31 March 2012 2.67 5.33 8.00 London WC1R 4HQ Telephone 44 0 20 7315 4000 31 March 2013 1.33 2.67 4.00 Email: investor.
com 31 March 2014 1.33 2.67 4.00 If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society, you will receive one consolidated tax voucher each year, which is sent to you in January at the time that the interim dividend is paid.
If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher with each dividend, please 1 contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104.
If your dividend is not currently paid direct to your bank or building society and you would like to bene t from this service, please 1 contact our shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2104.
By receiving your dividends in this way you can avoid the risk of cheques getting lost in the post.
It is also now possible for shareholders in over 90 countries worldwide to bene t from a similar service.
Further information can be obtained from www.
1 Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
Annual report 2013 14 161 Shareholder information continued Cable & Wireless Communications Plc off ers a dividend reinvestment Documents on display plan.
Shareholders wishing to join the dividend reinvestment plan Shareholders can view the service contracts of Executive Directors should return a completed mandate form to the Registrar, Equiniti.
and the letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors at the Copies of the dividend reinvestment plan brochure can be obtained Companys Registered Offi ce.
Shareholders may also obtain copies of either from Equiniti or from our website, www.
the Companys Articles of Association at the Companys Registered Offi ce or on the website www.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc trading market The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Distribution and classi cation of Cable & Wireless The Company had a market capitalisation of approximately Communications Plc shareholdings 1,402 million on 31 March 2014.
Number of % of Number of % of Shares at 31 March 2014 accounts total shares total The diagram below details the position in the FTSE All Share Index and the high and low middle market quotations for the ordinary shares on Up to 1,000 51,326 66.88 21,403,823 0.80 the London Stock Exchange as reported on its Daily Offi cial List.
ISIN: GB00B5KKT968 Electronic communication Together with Equiniti, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc is able to off er shareholders the option to manage their shareholding online.
To make use of this facility, please register at www.
co. uk following the onscreen instructions.
The Company also off ers shareholders the option to receive communications from the Company electronically as an alternative to receiving documents through the post.
Warning to shareholders boiler room scams Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases purporting to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters.
These typically make claims of highly pro table opportunities in UK or US investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist.
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
Investors are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or off ers to buy shares.
If it sounds too good to be true, it oft en is.
See the Financial Conduct Authoritys website fca.
uk scams for more detailed information about this or similar activity.
162 Cable & Wireless Communications fide nitions Exceptional items are material items which derive from individual The Annual report and accounts of Cable & Wireless Communications events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are Plc have been prepared in accordance with English legal and UK Listing identi ed as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or Rules requirements.
Capital expenditure is balance sheet capital expenditure and excludes spectrum purchases and, in the prior year, transfers of cable Unless otherwise stated in this report, the terms Cable & Wireless assets from inventory.
Operating cash ow is fide ned as preCommunications, the Group, CWC, Cable & Wireless Communications exceptional EBITDA less balance sheet capital expenditure.
Adjusted Group, it, we, us and our refer to Cable & Wireless Communications earnings per share adjusted EPS is before exceptional items, Plc and its subsidiaries collectively.
The terms Company and Parent transaction costs, gain loss on disposal of businesses and Company refer to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The terms amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Return on Invested Capital Cable & Wireless and Cable & Wireless Group refer to the previous ROIC is fide ned as total operating pro t before exceptional items Cable & Wireless plc and its subsidiaries collectively.
The term Cable & divided by average adjusted invested capital.
Average adjusted Wireless Worldwide group refers to Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc invested capital for continuing operations is aft er deducting deferred and its subsidiaries collectively, which was demerged from the former tax assets: retirement bene t assets: the goodwill balance attributable Cable & Wireless plc on 26 March 2010, and since July 2012 has been to the Monaco Telecom put option less the current portion of the a wholly owned subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc.
related put option financial liability : interest bearing assets: total Unless otherwise indicated, any reference in this report to financial assets and current liabilities for discontinued operations: and adding statements is to the consolidated financial statements of Cable & back interest bearing current liabilities.
A reconciliation of GAAP to Wireless Communications on pages 88 to 150.
References to a year non-GAAP measures is provided on pages 89 and 93. in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the year Where appropriate, to aid understanding of our results compared ended 31 March 2014 the financial year.
to the prior year, we refer to financial performance on a constant Cable & Wireless Communications prepares its financial information currency basis.
Constant currency gures are calculated by in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS retranslating prior year gures at the exchange rates used during applicable for use in the European Union EU.
The Company prepares 2013 14 to eliminate the impact of movements in exchange rates.
its financial information in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Where percentages are shown to illustrate year-on-year movements, Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
the abbreviation nm means that the percentage change is not meaningful.
In this report, financial and nonfinancial information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Groups financial year.
Information has been updated to the most practical date prior to the EBITDA is fide ned as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and approval date of the document, being 20 May 2014. amortisation, net other operating and non-operating income and expense.
Unless otherwise stated EBITDA excludes exceptional items.
Annual report 2013 14 163 164 Cable & Wireless Communications Porthcurno, a picturesque valley on the south-westerly tip of Cornwall, occupies a signifi cant position in history as one of the most strategically important communication sites in theworld.
It is now home to theTelegraph Museum Porthcurno, which CWC is proud to sponsor.
Cornwalls Victorian Silicon Valley Cable & Wireless Communications Laid by the Eastern Telegraph Company later to become Cable & The PK Trust, the charity that runs the Telegraph Museum Wireless, the first undersea cable to land on Porthcurnos sandy beach Porthcurno, houses the Cable & Wireless archive.
From staff records forged a link between Britain and Bombay.
Porthcurno grew to and photographs, to artefacts and lm footage, the archive is the become the largest and busiest telegraph cable station in the world: embodiment of our heritage, a rich record of people and places.
by the late 1920s a network of 14 undersea cables made it one of the We are proud to sponsor the PK Trust and Telegraph Museum most connected places on Earth.
Porthcurno, which is an educational charity, focused on the history, Previously the fastest means of international communication was by science and innovation of telegraph and wireless communications.
Sub-sea telegraph technology, the use of electrical pulses Through our work with the Museum, we help to underpin and raise to send Morse code messages via cable, was a world-shaping awareness of the important role that telecommunications has played breakthrough in communications technology.
Porthcurno was also an important centre for education.
The Cable & Tel: 44 0 1736 810966 Wireless international college was a leading training institution for the www.
The communications hub became so strategically important during World War II that the telegraph station was moved into forti ed underground tunnels.
For many visitors today, these impressive tunnels, and the working telegraph instruments within, form a memorable highlight of their experience.
Two major tourism industry awards received in late 2012 and early 2013 have reinforced the Museums reputation as a unique heritage attraction.
In June 2014 the Telegraph Museum Porthcurno will re-open aft er major redevelopment.
Addressees of the Annual report Cautionary statement regarding forward looking statements This Annual report is addressed solely to the members of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc as a body, to assist This Annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well them in assessing the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identi ed by the fact that they do Neither the Company nor its Directors accept or assume responsibility to any person for this Annual report or any not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking statements oft en use words such as anticipate, responsibility to update any statements in this Annual report, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be aff ected by other factors that could cause actual results, and Cable & Wireless Communications plans and objectives, to diff er materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
Furthermore, nothing in this Annual report should be construed as a pro t forecast.
There are several factors which could cause actual results to diff er materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or disposals.
Summaries of the potential risks faced by Cable & Wireless Communications are set out on pages 18 to 21.
Cable & Wireless Communications cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Cable & Wireless Communications undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this Annual report, regardless of whether those statements are aff ected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, save as required by applicable laws or regulation.
Designed by Fishburn thisis shburn.
com The paper used in this Annual report is produced from pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests and has been made without the use of elemental chlorine ECF.
Both manufacturing mill and printer are FSC certi ed and both have been accredited with ISO14001 environmental management system.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using the and environmental printing technology.
For further information go to www.
