Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance m The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the approved policy, but with the opportunity for the year of joining 5 pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set 4.5 diff erent performance measures and targets initially.
4,368k For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element 37% 4 awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other on-going remuneration 3.5 obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
3 For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as 2,568k appropriate.
27% 2.5 16% For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved 2 23% remuneration policy in force at that time.
1,612k 1,568k 1.5 100% 61% 36% Service contracts and loss of offi ce payments Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors 70% 1,049k 1 agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The 54% Companys policy is that Executive Directors will be employed on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no more 0.5 487k than 12 months notice, with the Executive Director required to give 100% 46% 30% 12 months notice of termination.
0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and Corporate Services Director without any further payment or compensation, except for sums CEO earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the termination taking into account the individuals performance and Fixed pay comprises salary effective 1 April 2014, benets paid for financial year 2013 14 an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into including cash allowances and expatriate benets relating to living working in Miami and annualised for the CEO and pension of 25% of base salary.
account by the Committee when determining amounts payable on or following termination.
The Committees normal policy is to reduce Minimum performance below threshold xed pay only compensatory payments to former Executive Directors where they On-target performance in line with expectations receive remuneration from other employment during the xed pay compensation period.
The Committee will consider the particular target bonus 50% of maximum opportunity circumstances of each leaver on a case by case basis and retains vesting of 25% of the maximum under the LTIP exibility as to at what point, and to what extent payments would Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum xed pay be reduced.
maximum bonus 100% of maximum opportunity maximum vesting under LTIP Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards would lapse on Approach to recruitment and promotions cessation of employment.
However, under the rules of the LTIP, The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, redundancy, be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved disability, retirement, the company business unit employing him remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment, as detailed ceasing to be part of the Group or other circumstances at the on pages 60 to 63.
This policy limits LTIP awards to 4 x salary in discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
The Committee may performance and the reasons for their departure, good leaver status off er additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers can be applied.
In these circumstances a participants awards vest on a these to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
time pro-rated basis and further are subject to the satisfaction of the Any such payments would be based solely on remuneration relevant performance criteria over the original performance period relinquished when leaving the former employer and would re ect with the balance of the awards lapsing.
as far as possible the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate, Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the to alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the date on which Companys LTIP up to the overall limit of 400% of salary to the performance is calculated, if it feels such decisions are appropriate extent possible.
Awards may also be granted outside of the Companys in the particular circumstances.
If, however, the termination of existing LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
employment is not for one of the speci ed good leaver reasons, and Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to of appointment.
vest, a participants awards lapse in full.
In determining whether an Annual report 2013 14 65 Directors remuneration report continued Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver the Committee The following table shows the date of the service contract and any will take into account the performance of the individual and the relevant date of expiry for the Executive Directors: reasons for their departure.
Shares deferred through the annual bonus Eff ective date of plan will vest immediately on cessation of employment other than on service contract Notice period cessation of employment for cause, in which case they will lapse.
Phil Bentley 1 January 2014 Notice can be served In the event of a takeover of the Company, a scheme of arrangement by either party on not or similar other major corporate event.
LTIP awards will only vest to less than 12 months the extent that any performance conditions have been met at the notice date of the event, as determined by the Committee.
In such an event, LTIP awards will only vest pro-rata to the length of time that has Nick Cooper 25 January 2010 Notice can be served elapsed between the date of award and the date of the relevant event, by either party on not unless, in appropriate circumstances, the Committee determines less than 12 months otherwise.
Any deferred bonus share awards will vest in full and cease notice to be capable of forfeiture in the event of any such major corporate event during the 12 month deferral period.
However, the early vesting The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external of awards following a change of control will not apply where a directorships subject to agreement by the Chairman on a case by case company acquires control of the Company and following that basis and allows the Directors to retain fees received from these roles.
acquisition the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the acquisition between them hold more than 50% of the issued share Chairmans service contract capital of the acquiring company, unless the Committee decides that The Chairman has a service contract with 12 months notice the foregoing vesting rules should apply.
of termination on either side.
There are no other contractual entitlements on early termination or following a change of control.
The Company retains the ability to pay what it feels is a Directors reasonable legal fees associated with agreeing his her termination and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment in relevant circumstances outplacement services and related costs.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
Non-executive Directors are permitted to have other external appointments, but these Provision Detailed terms should not adversely aff ect the ability of the Director to perform his her duties.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year Notice period Maximum of 12 months term with the expectation that a further three year term will follow.
Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice of base salary, Aft er two three year terms, the continued appointment of any normally subject to mitigation and paid Non-executive Director may be extended on an annual basis on 1,2 monthly recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either party on one In addition, any statutory entitlements months written notice.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to any would be paid as necessary compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Appointments will be Remuneration A pro-rata bonus may also become payable subject to annual re-election at the AGM in accordance with the UK entitlements for the period of active service along with Corporate Governance Code.
vesting for outstanding share awards in The following table shows the eff ective date of appointment for the certain circumstances see above Chairman and each Non-executive Director: In all cases performance targets would apply Eff ective date of appointment Change of control Payments on a change of control, where a Directors employment is adversely changed, 1 Sir Richard Lapthorne 25 January 2010 will be as on termination.
There will be no 2 2 Simon Ball 25 January 2010 enhanced provisions on a change of control Mark Hamlin 1 January 2012 1 Notwithstanding the Companys normal policy, the Committee retains the exibility, in exceptional circumstances, to make lump sum termination payments up to a Alison Platt 1 June 2012 maximum of 12 months base salary and contractual bene ts as part of an Executive Directors termination arrangements where it considers it appropriate to do so.
Ian Tyler 1 January 2011 2 The service contracts of Phil Bentley and Nick Cooper provide that, in the event of termination without cause and or a change of control of the Company, and a 1 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010.
Originally appointed Directors employment being adversely changed, then a payment equal to base salary as Chairman to the former Cable & Wireless plc on 10 January 2003. for the notice period and a time pro-rated annual bonus will be payable.
For Phil 2 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010.
Originally appointed Bentley all bene ts will cease with the exception of life cover and medical insurance as a Non-executive Director to the former Cable & Wireless plc on 1 May 2006. which will continue for a period of up to six months or earlier if a new job is commenced, and the Company will pay any costs associated with the early termination of housing and car provision in the US.
