Notes to the consolidated fi financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Section two Results for the year Th is section focuses on the results and performance of the Group.
On the following pages you will fi nd disclosures explaining the Groups results for the year, segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
2.1 Revenue Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.
14 2013 14 2012 13 Continuing operations US$m US$m Sales of telecommunications services and related operations 1,789 1,875 Sales of telecommunications equipment and accessories 84 67 Total revenue 1,873 1,942 2.2 Segment information This section analyses our performance for the year by reference to our businesses in Panama, the Caribbean and Monaco.
We sold Monaco aft er the year end.
However, accounting standards require us to continue to show Monaco within our financial results.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and before exceptional items EBITDA remains the Groups key performance indicator.
This re ects the way the business is managed and how the Directors assess the performance of the Group.
See page 89 for a reconciliation of EBITDA to total operating pro t. Cable & Wireless Communications Group is an international telecommunications service provider.
It operates integrated telecommunications companies off ering mobile, broadband, TV, xed line and enterprise services to residential and business customers.
It had three principal operations which have been identi ed as the Groups reportable segments, being the Caribbean, Panama and Monaco.
Our business-tobusiness and  operations and the results of our sub-sea cable partnership are included in the results of the region to which they relate.
The Group also has a corporate centre that does not meet the fide nition of an operating segment as it does not earn revenue from its activities.
This function primarily acts as an operational support provider for the reportable segments.
The operating segment results from continuing operations for the two years ended 31 March 2014 are presented below and the prior year results have been re-presented for the change in IAS 19 Employee bene ts note 3.9.
The non-operating corporate centre is also disclosed within other and eliminations in order to reconcile the reportable segment results to the Group results.
The Board the chief operating decision maker of the Group considers the performance of each of these operations in assessing the performance of the Group and making decisions about the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, these are the operating segments disclosed.
There are no other operating segments identi ed by the Board.
The operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board.
