Section three Operating assets and liabilities Th is section shows the assets used to generate the Groups trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result.
Assets and liabilities relating to the Groups fi nancing activities are addressed in section four.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in section two.
3.1 Trade and other receivables Our trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed to us by customers and amounts that we pay to our suppliers in advance.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.
4 31 March 31 March 2014 2013 US$m US$m Gross trade receivables 276 320 Impairment allowance 77 78 Net trade receivables 199 242 Other receivables 71 67 Prepayments and accrued income 146 156 Taxation and social security receivables 15 17 Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 2 2 Trade and other receivables current 433 484 Other receivables 46 46 Prepayments and accrued income 124 20 Other receivables non-current 170 66 Total trade and other receivables 603 550 The maximum exposure to credit risk for receivables is equal to their carrying value.
There is no material diff erence between the carrying value and fair value of trade and other receivables presented.
Concentrations of credit risks with respect to trade receivables are small as the Group customer base is large and unrelated.
Receivables predominantly relate to retail customers, governments and corporate entities as well as other telecommunications operators.
Credit risk procedures vary depending on the size or type of customer.
These procedures include such activities as credit checks, payment history analysis and credit approval limits.
Based on these procedures, management assessed the credit quality of those receivables that are neither past due nor impaired as low risk.
There have been no signi cant changes to the composition of receivables counterparties within the Group that indicate this would change in the future.
During the periods presented there was a continued economic weakness in some of the markets in which the Group operated.
This would indicate an increased credit risk on receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
However, management assessed this risk and, aft er providing valuation allowance where necessary, continued to support the assessment of credit quality as low risk.
