What consideration is given to employment conditions elsewhere How do we do this?
in the Group when setting Executive remuneration?
By setting xed pay levels which will attract high calibre executives The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive and take into consideration recruitment retention considerations, remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for and re ect executives experience and expertise Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall By balancing the variable pay opportunities provided through our approach and philosophy to reward, and the pay and employment performance-related shortand long-term incentive plans such terms of other employees in the Group, particularly those in the that executives are incentivised to maximise performance over both UK and Miami, where employment conditions are more similar.
the short and longer term This process ensures that any increase to the basic pay of Executive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed for other By providing for half of the annual bonus to be delivered and employees.
The Committee is also provided with periodic updates retained in shares and for those shares to be subject to claw back on employee remuneration practices and trends across the Group.
provisions By requiring Executive Directors to build up and maintain a How is risk considered when establishing our remuneration substantial holding of ordinary shares arrangements?
The Committee understands that an appropriate balance is required By ensuring that all aspects of remuneration for the Executive between reward and risk and is committed to keeping this balance Directors and selected senior employees are approved by the under review to ensure the remuneration policy is consistent with the Committee and by reviewing the levels, structure and philosophy risk pro le of the Company.
The Committee periodically commissions of remuneration on an annual basis an independent assessment of risk in relation to the remuneration By considering the impact of remuneration on the risk pro le of arrangements of senior executives to ensure fully informed decisions the Company can be made in this context.
The Committee remains satis ed that the current remuneration policy is appropriately aligned with the risk pro le of the Company and that the remuneration arrangements do not encourage excessive risk taking.
Overview of our remuneration policy Overall aim: The overall aim is to establish remuneration structures which encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of outstanding business performance.
This is underpinned by the following guiding principles: The risk and reward structure must maintain an overall alignment with the interests of shareholders Executive Directors are encouraged to maintain a very signi cant personal investment in the shares of the Company There is a strong focus on performance-related pay Targets should be appropriately stretching and adequately reward the directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their remuneration packages Annual report 2013 14 59
