Directors remuneration report continued What are the measures for the annual bonus for financial year Annual report on remuneration 2014 15?
The Annual report on remuneration is split into two sections.
The first For the financial year 2014 15, the measures adopted and their section provides details on the implementation of the remuneration respective weighting for the annual bonus are detailed below.
policy for financial year 2014 15 and the second section from page 70 onwards provides details on the remuneration earned in Weighting of respect of performance during the financial year 2013 14, along measure Measure Rationale out of 100% with details of any share awards made during the year.
Revenue Growth This measure re ects our 25% Implementation of remuneration policy for financial ability to deliver sustainable year 2014 15 long-term growth and will Salary encourage innovation and No salary increases will be taking place for the Executive Directors in investment to gain a greater financial year 2014 15.
This is in line with no salary increase provided share of customers telecoms for UK US employees in financial year 2014 15. wallet The current salaries as at 1 April 2014 are as follows: EBITDA US$m This measure seeks to 25% Salary at incentivise our business 1 April 2013 or operating eff ectiveness, on appointment Salary at 1 encouraging cost control and to the Board 1 April 2014 % increase operational gearing Phil Bentley 800,000 800,000 No increase Net Promoter Score This measure tracks customer 25% 1 Nick Cooper 375,000 375,000 No increase NPS service and advocacy, improvements in which 1 Phil Bentley was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2014. deliver an increase in the lifetime value of our customer Pension and other bene ts relationships Executive Directors may choose to receive either a cash allowance of 25% of their base salary, an employers pension contribution at the Personal performance Targets speci c deliverables 25% rate of 25% of base salary or a combination of a cash allowance and and behaviours by each employers pension contribution with a combined value of 25% of base individual.
This will be a basket salary.
A Director is not required to pay any pension contributions.
of measures, encompassing The Executive Directors participate in employee bene t programmes the how as well as the what including life, disability and health insurance plans.
In addition, for Phil 1 There will be a minimum EBITDA underpin to the NPS element of the annual bonus, Bentley, the costs of housing utilities, a car in Miami and chauff eur car whereby the NPS element of the annual bonus will only pay out provided that EBITDA bene t in the UK will be provided.
For Nick Cooper during the performance in the financial year attributed to the bonus is higher than the prior years transition period, the Company will pay living costs associated with actual EBITDA performance.
Given the commercial sensitivity of the financial and personal performance targets we will not at this stage be providing details on Annual bonus the speci c targets for the financial year 2014 15.
It is our intention The operation of the bonus plan for financial year 2014 15 will be to report the targets and performance achieved in next years Annual consistent with the framework detailed in the Policy report.
The report on remuneration except to the extent that they remain measures have been selected to support the key strategic objectives commercially sensitive, but it is not thought appropriate to disclose of the Company alongside a number of personal objectives.
the targets during the year.
However we can con rm that the bonus plan will have three data points: minimum, target and maximum.
Target performance will, for the financial elements, equate to the annual operating plan targets and yield a payment of 50% of each of these measures.
A range will be set around the annual operating plan, whereby 25% of each of the financial measures will be paid for threshold performance which will be set at a level below the annual operating plan and 100% for stretch performance which will be targeted above the annual operating plan.
The annual operating plan has been set at a stretching level for financial year 2014 15 with the minimum EBITDA target set above the prior year performance.
Bonus will accrue on a straight line basis between the threshold, target and stretch levels.
