Glossary of Terms Glossary of Terms Total Assets Gearing Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all borrowings.
At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in Net Asset Value additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can Net Asset Value at Fair therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
adversely impact performance in falling markets.
The level of gearing can be adjusted through the use of derivatives which Net Asset Value at Book affect the sensitivity of the value of the portfolio to changes in the Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
Discount Premium Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts percentage of shareholders funds.
share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is Gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share Effective gearing, as defined by the Board and Managers of price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than Monks, is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash equivalents and investment grade bonds maturing within one the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
year, as adjusted to take into account the exposure effect of Total Return derivative holdings, expressed as a percentage of shareholders The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the funds.
net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
Ongoing Charges The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair value.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 57 Directors Registered Office Managers and Secretaries Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC JGD Ferguson Baillie Gifford & Co 2nd Floor Calton Square Vintners Place CC Ferguson 1 Greenside Row 68 Upper Thames Street EM Harley Edinburgh London DCP McDougall EH1 3AN EC4V 3BJ KS Sternberg Tel: 0131 275 2000 www.
com Registrar Independent Auditors Company Details Computershare  LLP www.
co. uk Investor Services PLC Chartered Accountants and Company Registration The Pavilions Statutory Auditors No.
236964 Bridgwater Road Atria One ISIN GB0030517261 Bristol 144 Morrison Street Sedol 3051726 BS99 6ZZ Edinburgh Ticker MNKS Tel: 0870 707 1170 EH3 8EX Further Information Client Relations Team Tel: 0800 917 2112 Baillie Gifford Savings Email: Management Limited trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com Calton Square Fax: 0131 275 3955 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN
