A400 Whitehall Regent Street Haymarket St. Jamess Street Piccadilly Circus Trafalgar Square Charing Cross Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Tuesday, 5 August 2014, at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 917 2112.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS Notice is hereby given that the eighty-fifth Annual General Meeting To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolution 12 as a special of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the Institute of resolution: Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Tuesday, 5 August 12.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without 2014, at 11.00 am for the following purposes: prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Company be authorised, in accordance with Ordinary Business section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to make To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the ordinary resolutions: Act of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the Company Shares, provided that: Company for the year ended 30 April 2014 with the Reports a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby of the Directors and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
authorised to be purchased shall be 34,070,450, being 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital on the date on which this resolution is passed: 3.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2014. b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 5p exclusive of expenses : 4.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be 5.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of: 6.
To re-elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the 7.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the 8.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 9.
To re-elect Mr KS Sternberg as a Director.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade 10.
To reappoint  LLP as Independent and the highest current independent bid on the Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the the Independent Auditors.
Company in general meeting, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the financial year ending 30 April 2015, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the Board Baillie Gifford & Co Managers and Secretaries 26 June 2014 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 51 Piccadilly Pall Mall King St St James Sq Pall Mall East The Mall Strand Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of but must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such electronic address provided either in this notice or any related action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is documents including the financial statements and proxy form transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular to communicate with the Company for any purpose other time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where than those expressly stated.
applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be and timings.
received by post or during normal business hours only by 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
com no later than two days excluding non-working days before the 7.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in person if you wish.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford Manual and or by logging on to the website Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the www.
CREST personal members meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Form of Direction.
members who have appointed a voting service provider s, 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, Regulations 2001 and Section 311 of the Companies Act who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, of the Company no later than the close of business two days and must contain the information required for such instruction, excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be meeting.
received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 10.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person two days excluding non-working days before the time of the nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to to the appointee through other means.
the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
52 Annual Report 2014 Notice of Annual General Meeting 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to publish, on its website, without payment a statement which is also passed to the auditors setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys financial statements, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address and be sent to the Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers website at www.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in accordance with Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
As at 13 June 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 227,287,859 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 13 June 2014 were 227,287,859 votes.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 53
