Information about the Mana Information about the Manag ge er r Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Companys Manager is Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, whose group companies as at 31 December 2014 had approximately 323.3bn of assets under management.
It manages assets on behalf of a wide range of clients including 75 investment companies and other closed-ended funds, which had combined total assets of over 15.0bn.
The Manager has its headquarters in Aberdeen and invests globally, operating from over 33 offices in 27 different countries.
Its investment teams are generally based in the markets or regions in which they invest: in the UK its main investment centres are in London and Edinburgh.
The Senior Investment Manager Bruce Stout and the Global Equity Team Bruce Stout and Aberdeens Global Equity team are responsible for managing Murray International Trust PLC.
The investment management team is responsible for the construction of global equity portfolios.
Bruce Stout is a senior investment manager on the Global equities team.
Bruce joined Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or acquired companies in 1987 and has held a number of roles including investment manager on the emerging markets team.
which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no The Investment Process, Philosophy and Style longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment sound structure.
The Manager has as its primary objective in manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge managing Murray International Trust PLC the delivery of from the global equity strategy and investment themes consistent outperformance against the benchmark based on meetings that take place monthly.
the concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
Risk Controls To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been developed as detailed on page 3.
However, to meet the Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to there is built-in flexibility.
ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their mandate.
Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk investment decisions, so that when views change, action is from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
Market price risk is managed by strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of Stock Selection forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the The investment management team led by Bruce Stout, has portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks note 19 to the financial statements in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, Murray International Trust PLC 65
