NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 9 SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company consists of an unlimited number of Ordinary Shares of no par value, which upon issue the Directors may classify as: i U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares, Sterling Ordinary Shares or Euro Ordinary Shares or as Shares of such other classes as the Directors may determine: ii B Shares of such classes denominated in such currencies as the Directors may determine: and iii C Shares of such classes denominated in such currencies as the Directors may determine.
The rights attached to the above shares are one vote in respect of each share held and, in the case of a general meeting of all Shareholders: a one vote in respect of each U. S. Dollar Ordinary Share held by the shareholder: b 1.6 votes in respect of each Sterling Ordinary Share held by the shareholder: and c in respect of a Share of a class denominated in any currency other than U. S. Dollars or Sterling held by the shareholder, such number of votes per Share of such class as shall be determined by the Directors in their absolute discretion upon the issue for the first time of Shares of the relevant class.
The Directors may effect distributions of capital proceeds attributable to the Ordinary Shares to holders of Ordinary Shares by issuing B Shares of a particular class to holders of Ordinary Shares of a particular class pro-rata to their holding of Ordinary Shares of such class.
The B Shares are issued on terms that each B Share shall be compulsorily redeemed by the Company shortly following issue and the redemption proceeds paid to the holders of such B Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time to time determine.
The Directors are authorised to issue C Shares of such classes and denominated in such currencies as they may determine in accordance with Article 4 and with C Shares of each such class being convertible into Ordinary Shares of such class as the Directors may determine at the time of issue of such C Shares.
The C Shares will not carry the right to attend and receive notice of any general meetings of the Company, nor will they carry the right to vote at such meetings.
The C Shares will be entitled to participate in a winding-up of the Company or on a return of capital in relation to the C share surplus as defined in the Prospectus.
The C Shares will be entitled to receive such dividends as the Directors may resolve to pay to such holders out of the assets attributable to such class of C Shares.
There were no Euro Ordinary Shares in issue as at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: No Euro Ordinary Shares.
As at 31 December 2014, there were no C Shares in issue 31 December 2013: 425,571,132 Sterling C Shares were in issue.
The Company offers a monthly conversion facility pursuant to which Shareholders may elect to convert some or all of their Shares of a class into Shares of any other class.
On 6 January 2014, the Company announced a conversion ratio for the conversion of Sterling C Shares into Ordinary Shares.
The conversion ratio, based on the NAV of each share class as at 31 December 2013, as calculated in accordance with the Companys prospectus dated 30 September 2013 was 0.98950222 Sterling Ordinary Shares for every one Sterling C Share held.
Based on the conversion announcement on 20 January 2014, an application was made to the UK Listing Authority for 421,103,481 Sterling Shares the New Shares to be admitted to the Official List.
Application was also made for the New Shares to be admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange, which became effective from and the dealings in the New Shares commenced from 21 January 2014.
The Sterling C Shares were permanently removed from trading on the London Stock Exchange with effect from the opening of trading at 8:00 a. m. on 21 January 2014.
