NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 6 RISKS The Company is subject to various risks, including, but not limited to, market risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, geographic concentration risk and liquidity risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to monitor and manage these risks on an ongoing basis.
Market Risk and Price Risk Market risk is the potential for changes in the value of investments.
Categories of market risk include, but are not limited to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Interest rate risk primarily results from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates and credit spreads.
Investments in senior loans are subject to interest rate risk.
Price risk is the risk that the price of the security will fall.
The exposure to price risk is managed by the Investment Manager by diversifying the portfolio.
Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk arises from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to Sterling and Euro investments and share issue proceeds.
The Company makes use of hedging techniques, as part of its risk management strategy, including but not limited to the use of forward exchange contracts to mitigate its exposure to this risk.
These instruments involve market risk, credit risk, or both kinds of risks.
Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from movement in currency and securities values and interest rates.
The Company may invest in a range of bank debt investments and corporate and other bonds.
Until such investments are sold or are paid in full at maturity, the Company is exposed to credit risk relating to whether the issuer will meet its obligations when the securities come due.
The cash and other liquid securities held can subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk.
The Investment Manager attempts to mitigate the credit risk that exists with cash deposits and other liquid securities by regularly monitoring the credit ratings of such financial institutions and at times attempting to hold a significant amount of the Companys cash and cash equivalents in U. S. Treasuries or other highly liquid securities.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of losses due to the failure of counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contract.
Since the Company does not clear all of its own securities transactions, it has established accounts with other financial institutions for this purpose.
This can, and often does, result in a concentration of credit risk with one or more of these institutions.
Such risk, however, is partially mitigated by the obligation of certain of these financial institutions to comply with rules and regulations governing financial institutions in countries where they conduct their business activities.
These rules and regulations generally require maintenance of minimum net capital and may also require segregation of customers funds and financial instruments from the holdings of the financial institutions themselves.
The Company actively reviews and attempts to manage exposures to various financial institutions in an attempt to mitigate these risks.
Geographic Concentration Risk The Company may invest a relatively large percentage of its assets in issuers located in a single country, a small number of countries, or a particular geographic region.
As a result, the Companys performance may be closely aligned with the market, currency or economic, political or regulatory conditions and developments in those countries or that region, and could be more volatile than the performance of more geographically diversified investments.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 63
