FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 1 DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company is a Guernsey Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme registered and incorporated in Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended, on 10 March 2011, with registration number 53155.
The Initial Public Offering of the Company took place on 15 April 2011, raising gross proceeds of approximately $507.3 million.
The Companys shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011.
On 30 September 2011, the Company raised an additional $187 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 5 October 2011.
On 21 March 2013 and 24 October 2013 the Company raised an additional $550 million and $705 million by means of a Placing and Offer for Subscription of C Shares and were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 26 March 2013 and 29 October 2013 respectively.
On 22 July 2013, through a tap issue, the Company raised gross proceeds of $69 million.
The Sterling C Shares issued on 21 March 2013 were converted into 360,521,605 Sterling Ordinary Shares on 16 July 2013 and the Sterling Ordinary Shares issued on 24 October 2013 were converted into converted into 421,103,481 Sterling Ordinary on 21 January 2014.
The Companys investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Alternative Investment Fund Manager the AIFM, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans will at the time of investment often be non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit rating agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company and its wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
The Companys share capital is denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and consists of U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares and Sterling Ordinary Shares as at 31 December 2014.
Under Directive 2011 61 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 July 2011 on the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive the AIFM Directive the Company is required to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
On 17 July 2014, the Company, the Investment Manager and the Sub Investment Manager made certain classificatory amendments to the Investment Management Agreement for the purposes of the AIFM Directive.
The Sub Investment Management Agreement was terminated on 17 July 2014 and the Sub Investment Manager was appointed as the AIFM per the amended and restated Investment Management Agreement dated 17 July 2014.
The Investment Manager has for the duration of its appointment discharged its responsibility to the AIFM, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been presented on a going concern basis and on the accrual basis of accounting in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP.
The Company is regarded as an Investment Company and it follows the accounting and reporting requirements of ASC 946.
Management believes that the underlying assumptions are appropriate and that the Companys consolidated financial statements therefore present a true and fair financial position.
54 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014.
The Company and all its wholly owned subsidiaries have United States Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full.
Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires that the Directors make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Such estimates and associated assumptions are generally based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis of making the judgments about attributing values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may vary from such accounting estimates in amounts that may have a material impact on the financial information of the Company.
Revenue recognition Interest earned on debt instruments is accounted for net of applicable withholding taxes and is recognised as income over the terms of the loans.
Discounts received or premiums paid in connection with the acquisition of loans are amortised into interest income using the effective interest method over the contractual life of the related loan.
If a loan pays off prior to maturity, the recognition of the fees and costs is accelerated as appropriate.
The Company raises a provision when the collection of interest is deemed doubtful.
Cash and cash equivalents The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than 90 days that are both readily convertible to known amounts of cash and so near maturity that they represent insignificant risk of changes in value.
New accounting pronouncements In June 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-08, Financial Services Investment Companies Topic 946 ASU 2013-08 which amends the scope, measurement, and disclosure requirements for investment companies.
ASU 2013-08: i amends the criteria for an entity to qualify as an investment company, ii requires an investment company to measure non-controlling ownership interests in other investment companies at fair value rather than using the equity method of accounting, and iii require the following additional disclosures: a the fact that the entity is an investment company and is applying the guidance in Topic 946, b information about changes, if any, in an entitys status as an investment company, and c information about financial support provided or contractually required to be provided by an investment company to any of its investees.
iv this guidance is effective for the Companys fiscal year beginning January 1, 2014.
The company meets the required characteristics to qualify as an investment company and the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Companys financial results and consolidated financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 55 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Valuation of investments The Company carries investments on its Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Quoted investments are valued according to their bid price as at the close of the relevant reporting date.
Investments in private securities are priced at the bid price using a pricing service for private loans.
Asset backed securities are valued according to their bid price.
If a price cannot be ascertained from the above sources, the Company will seek bid prices from third party broker dealer quotes for the investments.
The Investment Manager believes that bid price is the best estimate of fair value and is in line with the valuation policy adopted by the Company.
In cases where no third party price is available, or where the Investment Manager determines that the provided price is not an accurate representation of the fair value of the investment, the Sub-Investment Manager determines the valuation based on the AIFMs fair valuation policy.
The overall criterion for fair value is a price at which the securities involved would change hands in a transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, neither being under compulsion to buy or sell and both having the same knowledge of the relevant facts.
Consistent with the above criterion, the following criteria is considered when applicable: Valuation of other securities by the same issuer for which market quotations are available: Reasons for absence of market quotations: The credit quality of the issuer and the related economics: Recent sales prices and or bid and ask quotations for the security: Value of similar securities of issuers in the same or similar industries for which market quotations are available: Economic outlook of the industry: Issuers position in the industry: The financial information of the issuer: and The nature and duration of any restriction on disposition of the security.
Derivative financial instruments The Company may, from time to time, hold derivative financial instruments for the purposes of hedging foreign currency exposure.
These derivatives are measured at fair value in accordance with US GAAP, with changes in fair value recognised within the Consolidated Statement of Operations in each reporting period.
Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of the over the counter OTC derivative products, such as foreign exchange contracts, can be modelled taking into account the counterparties credit worthiness and using a series of techniques, including simulation models.
56 NEUBERGER BERMAN NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments continued Many pricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgements and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets.
The forward exchange contracts valued by the Company using pricing models fall into this category and are categorised within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
As shares are denominated in U. S. Dollars and Sterling and investments are denominated in U. S. Dollars, Euro or Sterling.
Holders of any class of Shares are subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the currency in which such Shares are denominated and the currency of the investments made by the Company.
Consequently, the Investment Manager seeks to engage in currency hedging between the U. S. Dollar and any other currency in which the assets of the Company or a class of Shares is denominated, subject to suitable hedging contracts such as forward currency exchange contracts being available in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to the Investment Manager, in their sole and absolute discretion.
Note 5 details the gross and net derivative asset and liability position by contract type and the amount for those derivative contracts for which netting is permissible under US GAAP.
The derivative assets and liabilities have been netted where an enforceable master netting arrangement is in place.
Realised gains and losses on investments All investment transactions are recorded on a trade date basis.
Upon sale or maturity, the difference between the consideration received and the cost of the investment is recognised as a realised gain or loss.
The cost is determined based on the average cost method.
Operating expenses Operating expenses are recognised on an accruals basis.
Operating expenses include amounts directly or indirectly incurred by the Company as part of its operations.
Issuance cost In line with the Prospectus, the expenses incurred for the initial placing and C Shares were borne by the Company up to a maximum of 2% of the Gross Issue Proceeds.
These expenses include placing fees and commissions: registration, listing and admission fees: the cost of settlement and escrow arrangements: printing, advertising and distribution costs: legal fees, and any other applicable expenses incurred in connection with the offering of shares.
All such expenses are charged to capital, reducing the issue proceeds received.
Currency translation Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U. S. Dollars are translated into U. S. Dollar equivalents using spot rates as at the reporting year end date.
On initial recognition, a foreign currency transaction is recorded and translated at the spot exchange rate at the transaction date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic exchange rate.
There were no non-monetary assets held during the year.
Transactions during the year, including purchases and sales of securities, income and expenses, are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 57
