Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements Appendix 1 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings The Companys principal subsidiaries as at the Balance Sheet date are set out below.
A full list of subsidiaries can be found on the Annual Return.
The Company holds 100% of the voting rights and ordinary shares of the following companies: Principal activity Country of incorporation Country of operation Direct holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Cairn UK Holdings Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Indirect holdings Capricorn Oil Limited Group Capricorn Energy Limited Holding company Scotland Scotland Capricorn Spain Limited Exploration Scotland Spain Capricorn Malta Limited Exploration Scotland Malta Capricorn Greenland Exploration A S Exploration Greenland Greenland Capricorn Exploration and Development Company Limited Exploration Scotland Morocco Capricorn Mauritania Limited Exploration Scotland Mauritania Capricorn Senegal Limited Exploration Scotland Senegal Capricorn Ireland Limited Exploration Scotland Republic of Ireland Capricorn Norge AS Exploration Norway Norway Nautical Petroleum Limited Exploration England UK Nautical Petroleum AG Exploration and development Switzerland UK Agora Oil and Gas UK Limited Exploration Scotland UK 138 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Appendix 2 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Group and Company The main risks arising from the Companys and the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk arising from equity price fluctuations and foreign currency risk.
The Board of Cairn Energy PLC through the Treasury Sub-Committee reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and these are summarised below.
The Groups treasury function and Executive Team as appropriate are responsible for managing these risks, in accordance with the policies set by the Board.
Management of these risks is carried out by monitoring of cash flows, investment and funding requirements using a variety of techniques.
These potential exposures are managed whilst ensuring that the Company and the Group have adequate liquidity at all times in order to meet their immediate cash requirements.
There are no significant concentrations of risks unless otherwise stated.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivatives, for speculative purposes.
The primary financial assets and liabilities comprise cash, short and medium-term deposits, notice accounts, certificates of deposit, money market liquidity funds, listed equity shares Cairn India Limited only, intra-group loans and other receivables and financial liabilities held at amortised cost.
The Groups strategy has been to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
Other alternatives such as equity issues and other forms of non-investment-grade debt finance are reviewed by the Board, when appropriate.
Liquidity risk The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk using both short and long-term cash flow projections, supplemented by debt financing plans and active portfolio management.
Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in and delays of development projects.
The Groups forecasts show that the Group will be able to operate within its current debt facilities and have significant financial headroom for the 12 months from the date of approval of the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of the Groups debt facilities can be found in section 3.2.
At 31 December 2013 Cairn Energy PLC Group had a total of US$60.0m of facilities in place to cover the issue of performance guarantees.
On 21 February 2014 the facilities were further increased to US$100.0m.
On 1 Aug 2014 these were cancelled and replaced by the US$575.0m debt facility noted above.
The Group currently has surplus cash which is invested in a combination of money market liquidity funds, notice accounts and term deposits with a number of international and UK financial institutions, ensuring sufficient liquidity to enable the Group to meet its short and medium-term expenditure requirements.
Interest rate risk Surplus funds are invested at floating rates.
Borrowing arrangements are generally entered into at floating rates.
From time to time the Group may opt to manage a proportion of the interest costs by using derivative financial instruments like interest rate swaps.
At this time, however, there are no such instruments 2013: none.
The Groups loss before tax is not sensitive to changes in interest rates.
Foreign currency risk Cairn manages exposures that arise from non-functional currency receipts and payments by matching receipts and payments in the same currency and actively managing the residual net position.
Generally the exposure has been limited given that receipts and payments have mostly been in US dollars and the functional currency of most companies in the Group is US dollars.
The Group also aims where possible to hold surplus cash, debt and working capital balances in functional currency which in most cases is US dollars, thereby matching the reporting currency and functional currency of most companies in the Group.
This minimises the impact of foreign exchange movements on the Groups Balance Sheet.
Where residual net exposures do exist and they are considered significant the Company and Group may from time to time opt to use derivative financial instruments to minimise exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to movements in the US$:GBP exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, on the Groups and the Companys monetary assets and liabilities.
The Groups and the Companys exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
2014 2013 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on loss before tax Equity loss before tax Equity Group US$m US$m US$m US$m 10% increase in Sterling to US$ 28.3 80.1 9.2 41.4 10% decrease in Sterling to US$ 28.3 80.1 9.2 41.4 2014 2013 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on loss before tax Equity loss before tax Equity Company US$m US$m US$m US$m 10% increase in Sterling to US$ 89.8 89.8 93.5 93.5 10% decrease in Sterling to US$ 89.8 89.8 93.5 93.5 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued Appendix 2 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies Continued Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments with banks and financial institutions and joint operations.
Joint operation partners are subject to a risk assessment using publicly available information and credit reference agencies, with follow-up due diligence and monitoring if required.
Investment credit risk for investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the Group Treasury function in accordance with the Board-approved policies of Cairn Energy PLC.
These policies limit counterparty exposure and maturity and take account of published ratings, market measures and other market information.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate the risk of financial loss through counterparty failure.
It is Cairns policy to invest with banks or other financial institutions that firstly offer the greatest degree of security in the view of the Group, and, secondly the most competitive interest rates.
Repayment of principal is the overriding priority and this is achieved by diversification and shorter maturities to provide flexibility.
The Board continually re-assesses the Groups policy and updates as required.
At the year end the Group does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk.
As at 31 December 2014 the Group had investments with 22 counterparties 2013: 33 to ensure no concentration of counterparty investment risk.
The maturity of these investments ranged from instant access to three months.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the Balance Sheet date.
Market risk: equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from the listed equity investments it holds in Cairn India Limited.
Equity investments are held for strategic rather than trading purposes and the Group does not actively trade these investments, which are classified as non-current available-for-sale financial assets.
Movements in the fair value during the year are recognised directly in equity and are disclosed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative gain or loss that arises on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets is recycled through the Income Statement.
Further details on the impact of equity price movements on the fair value of the available-for-sale financial assets are included in section 3.1.
140 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Appendix 3 Share-based Payments Cairn Energy PLC Group and Company The schemes below apply for both Group and Company.
Cairn Energy PLC share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the year, subject to the normal employee dealing bans imposed at certain times by the Company.
The weighted average share price during the year was 1.877 2013: 2.753.
The Cairn Energy PLC share awards during 2014 were valued using a Monte Carlo model with the exception of the SIP awards which were valued using a BlackScholes model.
Awards in prior years were valued using a Monte Carlo model.
The main inputs to the models include the number of options, share price, leaver rate, trigger points, discount rate and volatility.
Leaver rate assumptions are based on past history of employees leaving the Company prior to options vesting and are revised to equal the number of options that ultimately vest.
Trigger points are based on the length of time after the vesting periods for awards in 2014.
Awards in prior years have trigger points based on the profit points at which the relevant percentage of employees are assumed to exercise their options.
The risk-free rate is based on the yield on a zero coupon Government bond with a term equal to the expected term on the option being valued.
Volatility was determined as the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the shares of a peer group of similar companies selected from the FTSE, as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97, over a 10-year period to the date of award.
The following assumptions and inputs apply to the share plans detailed in section 5.4: Lapse due to Risk-free rate withdrawals Scheme name Volatility per annum per annum 2010 Share Incentive Plan 29% 52% 0% 0.69% 5% 2009 Approved and Unapproved Plans 29% 52% 0.29% 3.20% 5% 2009 LTIP 29% 52% 0% 2.33% 0% 2012 Share awards 29% 52% 5% Employee exercise trigger point assumptions For 2014 awards, the assumption used for the 2009 Approved and Unapproved awards is that employees will exercise half of the awards on the vesting date and the remaining half will be exercised equally each year over the following seven years.
This assumption is modified for the 2009 LTIP awards such that awards are assumed to be exercised 10% on the three-year anniversary of the award date and 22.5% each year thereafter up until the seventh anniversary date.
The assumption used for the valuation of the SIP is that employees will withdraw shares five years after the award date.
For details on the vesting conditions attached to the LTIPs refer to the Directors Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 Appendices to the Group and Company Financial Statements continued Appendix 4 Auditors Remuneration 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 PwC LLP Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associate firms for: Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements 346 246 Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation 250 139 Tax advisory and other services 203 13 Ernst & Young LLP Fees payable to the Groups auditors and its associate firms for: Audit of parent company and consolidated Financial Statements 86 Audit of Group companies pursuant to legislation 258 Tax advisory and other services 66 The Group has a policy in place for the award of non-audit work to the auditors which, in certain circumstances, requires Audit Committee approval see the Audit Committee report on pages 73 to 75.
The split of audit fees to non-audit fees payable to the auditor is as follows: 2014 Fees to Auditors 2013 Fees to Auditors Non Audit fee, $79,000 Non Audit fee, $203,000 Audit fee, $596,000 Audit fee, $729,000 142 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
