B5 Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare company financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
In respect of the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014, company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: make an assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the applicable requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: The Directors Report, including those other sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference, comprises a management report for the purposes of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, which includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
PANDORA SHARP Company Secretary 25 November 2014 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 88 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 88 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance C Independent auditors report GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
