INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS APPENDIX INVESTMENT POLICY AND LIMITS AS PUBLISHED IN THE 2013 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
Market exposure may also be gained through warrants and derivatives up to 5% of the value of the Companys equity portfolio, the purpose of which would be to achieve changes to the portfolios economic exposure.
The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK listed securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: and borrowings may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 61
