READING ROAD THAMESIDE W A R G R A READING ROAD V E R O A D A321.
R B Y INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Financial Calendar Trust plc the Company are quoted on the London The Company publishes information according to the Stock Exchange.
following calendar: Announcements Savings Plan and ISA Annual Financial Report June Half-yearly Financial Report November The Company is a member of the Invesco Perpetual Interim Management Statements January July Investment Trust Savings Scheme and the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA.
The Companys Ordinary Annual General Meeting July shares can be purchased and sold via these two schemes.
Year End 31 March Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Ordinary Share Dividend Timetable Scheme 1st interim payable September The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme 2nd interim payable December allows an investor to make monthly purchases from 3rd interim payable March 4th interim payable June 20 per month or through lump sum investments of 500 or above in the shares of the Company in a Debenture Stock and Loan Notes straightforward and low cost way.
Interest payable: 6.125% Debenture 2014 January July Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 4.37% Secured Loan Notes 2029 May November The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows investments up to the current ISA limit.
For the tax year 2014 15 this will be increased to 15,000 from 1 July Subscription Shares 2014, up to that date 11,880 can be invested.
Base cost for the calculation of taxation on capital Investors can also choose to make lump sum gains investments from 500, or regular investments from Trading in the subscription shares issued by the 20 per month.
Company to qualifying shareholders commenced on For full details of these schemes please contact 31 May 2005.
Further to the details outlined in the Invesco Perpetuals Investor Services team free on prospectus, for the purposes of UK taxation, the issue 0800 085 8677. of subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of the Companys share capital.
Whereas such reorganisations do not trigger a chargeable disposal for Net Asset Value NAV Publication the purposes of capital gains, they do require shareholders to reallocate the base costs of their The NAV of the Company is calculated by the Manager ordinary shares between ordinary shares and on a daily basis and is notified to the Stock Exchange subscription shares acquired under the bonus issue.
on the following business day.
It is published daily in the newspapers detailed below.
At the close of business on 31 May 2005, the middle market prices of the Companys ordinary shares and subscription shares were as follows: Share Price Listings Ordinary Shares 190.25p The price of your shares can be found in The Financial Subscription Shares 34.50p Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Evening Standard.
In addition, share price information can be Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 27 May 2005, found using the PLI ticker code for ordinary shares.
held ten ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would have received a bonus issue of one subscription share Internet addresses or the relevant multiple thereof and would apportion Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk the base cost of such holding 98.22% to the ten ordinary investmenttrusts shares and 1.78% to the subscription shares.
co. uk Investment Companies If you need tax advice, you should contact a qualified tax professional.
Managers Website The Managers website can be located at www.
co. uk investmenttrusts HENLEY-ON-THAMES The contents of websites referred to in this document, or accessible from links within those websites, are not incorporated into, nor do they form part of this annual financial report.
Location of Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at Perpetual Park, Perpetual Park Drive, Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire RG9 1HH on Invesco Perpetual Friday, 11 July 2014 at 11am.
62 E L N E H HART ST ST. MARKS ROAD
