INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount The amount by which the mid-market share price of an investment trust is lower than the diluted net asset value per share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that the company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and UK government bonds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Market Capitalisation Is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Basic Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The net asset value per share is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted net asset value is the net asset value per share that would arise if the subscription shares were converted.
It is calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number of shares that would be in issue if all the subscriptions shares were converted to ordinary shares.
Where the diluted net asset value per ordinary share is greater than the basic net asset per ordinary share, there is no dilutive effect.
Net Cash This reflects the Companys net exposure to cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
Ongoing Charges Ratio This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value at market value reported in the period.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between companies with different dividend policies.
Any dividends after tax received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares ie share price total return or in the Companys assets ie NAV total return.
64 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS The Manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc is Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco Asset Management Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco Perpetual is a business name of Invesco Asset Management Limited.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of $779 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under Management as at 30 April 2014 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 65 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS INVESTMENT COMPANIES MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Property Income Trust Limited A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to The Company is a closed-ended investment company with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed limited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to income instruments.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
repay its bank borrowings and other liabilities and, having met these obligations, to provide a return for shareholders.
Invesco Income Growth Trust plc The Company holds a diversified portfolio of European Aims to produce income and capital growth superior to that commercial properties and is geared by bank debt.
of the UK stock market and dividends paid quarterly that, over Keystone Investment Trust plc time, grow at above the rate of inflation.
Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company has Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income Limited debenture stocks in issue.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in Aims to provide shareholders with capital growth and real a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of interest markets.
The Company has a debenture stock in issue capital and to manage volatility.
The Company uses repo and, in addition, may use bank borrowings.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective Portfolio of achieving: Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income the growth in the FTSE All Share Index: and will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio inflation.
Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with The Company has two debenture stocks in issue.
real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK equity market.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys of income is of secondary importance.
The Company may use shareholders primarily by investment in a broad cross-section bank borrowings.
of small to medium sized UK-quoted companies.
The pursuit Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific Ex Japan Index, predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio measured in sterling.
The Company may use bank of equities worldwide.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in using mainly transparently-priced exchange-traded futures differing economic and inflationary environments and with contracts and other derivative instruments to gain such low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining exposure and to provide leverage.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
66 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS NOTES PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 67 Linkway Financial Printers Typeset and Printed in London UK 16311
