Investing There are a number of methods of investing in the shares of the Company.
Market Purchases The ordinary and subscription shares of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other financial intermediary.
Share Dealing Services The Company has arranged for Shareview Dealing, a telephone and Internet share sale service offered by Equiniti to be made available.
For telephone sales call 0800 876 6889 or 44 121 415 7047 between 8.30am and 4.30pm for dealing and up to 6.00pm for enquiries, Monday to Friday.
For Internet sales log on to www.
co. uk dealing Saving Schemes, ISAs and other plans A number of banks and wealth management organisations provide Savings Schemes and ISAs through which UK clients can invest in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc.
ISA and savings scheme providers do charge dealing and other fees for operating the accounts, and investors should read the Terms and Conditions provided by these companies and ensure that the charges best suit their planned investment profile.
Most schemes carry annual charges but these vary between provider and product.
Where dealing charges apply, in some cases these are applied as a percentage of funds invested and others as a flat charge.
The optimum way to hold the shares will be different for each investor depending upon the frequency and size of investments to be made.
One such provider of such accounts is Alliance Trust Savings, but there are many other options.
Alliance Trust Savings provide and administer a range of selfselect investment plans, including tax-advantaged ISAs and SIPPs Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans including First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
For more information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 01382 573 737, or visit www.
Investors in Polar Capital Technology Trust plc through the ATS Investment Plan can receive all shareholder communications and are provided with a voting instruction form to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
Please remember that the value of your investments and any income from them may go down as well as up.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
You may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment available within a plan, please take professional advice.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014113
