3 Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report integrity of the Companys website although day to day and the financial statements in accordance with maintenance has been delegated to Polar Capital LLP.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Company law requires the Directors to prepare preparation and dissemination of financial statements financial statements for each financial year.
Under may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
that law the Directors have prepared the Companys The work carried out by the auditors does not involve financial statements in accordance with International consideration of these matters and, accordingly the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that the European Union.
may occur to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the The Directors consider that the Annual Report and International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Financial Statements, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law the Directors must not approve the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they Companys performance, business model and strategy.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for Disclosure of Information to the Auditors that period.
In preparing these financial statements, As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their the Directors are required to: knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware them consistently: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the make judgements and accounting estimates that Auditors are aware of such information.
are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the Going Concern European Union have been followed, subject to any The Boards has through the Audit Committee material departures disclosed and explained in the considered and assessed the Companys position financial statements: and as at 30April2014 and the factors impacting the prepare the financial statements on the going concern forthcoming year are set out in the Strategic Review basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Section comprising the Chairmans Statement, the Company will continue in business.
Investment Managers Report and the Strategic Report.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The financial position of the Company and its cash flows accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain and liquidity position are described in the Strategic the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Report and the Financial Statements.
Note 28 to the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Financial Statements includes the Companys policies and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and process for managing its capital: its financial risk and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the management objectives: details of financial instruments Companies Act 2006. and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 68 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 The Company has a portfolio of investments listed and traded on stock exchanges around the world, the majority of which can be sold within one working day, providing considerable financial resources.
After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on pages 46 and 47, confirm to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Strategic Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 17 July 2014 and the responsibility statement was signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 69
