6 Shareholder Information Glossary Computer data storage capacity transfer speeds The basic capacity of information in computing with only two possible values Bit often interpreted as binary digits and denoted as numerical digits 0 and 1.
Byte A unit of digital information equivalent to eight bits.
Kilobit KiloByte Kb KB Equivalent to 1000 bits or Bytes.
Megabit MegaByte Mb MB Equivalent to one million 106 bits or Bytes.
Gigabit GigaByte Gb GB Equivalent to one thousand million Bytes 109 or 1000 gigabits Gb.
Terabit TeraByte Tb TB Equivalent to one trillion 1012 bits or Bytes.
Petabit PetaByte Pb PB Equivalent to one quadrillion 1015 bits or Bytes.
Zettabit ZettaByte Zb ZB Equivalent to one sextillion 1021 bits or Bytes.
Where XX s refers to the equivalent data transfer rate per second.
Computing terminology 4G LTE An initialism of Long-term Evolution.
4G LTE is a fourth generation wireless communication standard and successor to the current 3G standard.
Android A Linux-based operating system for mobile devices developed by the Open Handset Alliance, led by Google.
Application delivery A device placed in a datacentre between the firewall and application servers that controller ADC accelerates application performance and load balancing.
Bandwidth Term used to describe the available or consumed data communication resources expressed in bits second or multiples of it eg.
kilobits s, megabits s. Cloud Computing The delivery of computing and storage capacity as a service to a heterogeneous community of end-recipients.
A Private Cloud is operated solely for a single organisation whether managed internally or by a third-party and hosted internally or externally while a Public Cloud is the purest form of Cloud computing based on multi-tenancy and Internet delivery.
Computing Cluster Set of loosely connected computers that work together so they can be viewed as a single system.
Datacentre A centralised repository for the storage, management and dissemination of data and information.
eCommerce Electronic commerce, known as e-commerce, is the buying and selling of products or services over electronic systems such as as the Internet.
Hadoop An open source software framework enabling applications to work with thousands of independent computers and massive data sets.
iOS Apples operating system used in its iPhone iPad ranges.
IP Internet Protocol see TCP IP.
Multitenancy Where a single instance of a piece of software runs on a server serving multiple clients.
Software as a Software delivery model where software and associated data is centrally hosted on the Cloud service SaaS and accessed by users via a web browser.
Sometimes referred to as on-demand software.
TCP IP Primary communication protocols used for the Internet.
Transmission Control Protocol TCP handles host-to-host communication while Internet Protocol IP connects local networks.
Virtualisation The creation of a virtual rather than actual version of something which involves the abstraction of software from underlying hardware resources.
Wide Area Networks A telecommunication network that covers a broad wide area rather than a local LAN WAN or metropolitan area MAN.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 116 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 This list of terms has been compiled from public sources with acknowledgement and thanks to Wikipedia.
Investment and Financial terms AIC The Association of Investment Companies.
Diluted Net Asset Value The diluted NAV per ordinary share assuming that all outstanding subscription shares NAV per Ordinary share were converted into ordinary shares at the period end.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
Subscription shares Shares carrying the right but not the obligation to be exchanged for ordinary shares of the Company at a predetermined price and at a specified time in the future.
Designed and produced by FSC LOGO www.
com Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014117
