6 Shareholder Information Subscription Shares The final Exercise Date for the Subscription Rights was the last working day of March 2014.
A reminder of this was sent to subscription shareholders in February 2014.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc issued, as a Bonus Issue, free of cost, subscription shares on 11 February 2011 to its qualifying shareholders.
The subscription shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 14February 2011.
The subscription shares offer the right to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company at 401p per ordinary share until the last business day in March 2012 and at 478p per ordinary share until the last working day of March 2014 Following the last business day of March 2014, the right to convert subscription shares lapsed and a trustee was appointed to consider if any value could be realised from the unconverted subscription share for the befit of the subscription shareholders.
The trustee determined that, after the deduction of the subscription share costs there would be no benefit to the subscription shareholders allowed all subscription rights to lapse.
Tax implications For the purposes of UK capital gains tax and corporation tax on chargeable gains, the issue of subscription Shares pursuant to the Bonus Issue should be treated as a reorganisation of the Companys share capital.
For qualifying shareholders subject to UK taxation, subscription shares will be treated on receipt as part of a single asset comprised of the subscription shares and that shareholders existing ordinary share holding.
The tax base cost of that single asset will be the consideration given for the existing holding of ordinary shares.
While qualifying shareholders should not be treated as making a disposal of all or part of their existing holdings of ordinary shares by reason of the bonus Issue, for the purpose of calculating chargeable gains or allocating losses on future disposals of subscription shares and or ordinary shares, qualifying shareholders must apportion the base costs of the deemed single assets between their existing ordinary shares and any subscription shares received.
The base cost for UK tax purposes of the subscription shares acquired pursuant to the Bonus Issue will be a proportion of the original base cost of your ordinary shares.
The apportionment is made by reference to the respective market values of the ordinary shares and subscription shares on 14 February 2011, the day the subscription shares were admitted to trading.
The prices of the Companys ordinary shares and subscription shares for the purposes of allocating your base cost were as follows: ordinary shares 389.25p subscription shares 25.25p Accordingly an individual investor who on 10 February 2011 held five ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would have received one subscription share or the relevant multiple thereof pursuant to the Bonus Issue and would apportion the base cost of such holding 98.722% to the five ordinary shares and 1.278% to the subscription shares.
If you exercised the subscription rights attaching to your subscription shares on any subscription date, the resulting ordinary shares will be treated for UK tax purposes as the same asset as the subscription shares in respect of which the subscription rights are exercised.
The base cost for UK tax purposes of the resulting ordinary shares will be the base cost attributed to the exercised subscription shares, increased by the amount of subscription monies paid.
ISAs Investments held in ISAs are free of UK tax on income and gains.
Receipt of subscription shares and any subsequent disposal of subscription shares held in an ISA at a gain should not be a chargeable event for UK capital gains tax purposes.
As an ISA holder, you may subscribe for ordinary shares pursuant to your subscription rights on any subscription date.
However, any new monies paid into your ISA to convert your subscription shares will contribute towards your annual ISA limit in the year in which you exercise your subscription rights and must not exceed the ISA allowance for that tax year.
Any subscription shares you convert to ordinary shares cannot be added retrospectively to previous ISAs.
They must be added to the current tax years ISA allowance.
The information provided on tax is a summary only of certain UK tax matters relevant to the Bonus Issue.
If you need tax advice you should contact a qualified tax professional.
Investors who are resident or otherwise subject to taxation outside the UK should, in particular, consult a professional adviser on the tax implications of the Bonus Issue.
Please note this is a summary of some of the information contained in the Prospectus issued by the Company on 18January 2011 the Prospectus in connection with the bonus issue of the Subscription Shares the Bonus Issue and should be read as such.
Full details of the subscription shares, their issue and conversion are set out in the Prospectus and reference should be made to that document for a complete and full understanding of the matters terms of the subscription shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 112 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
