Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 135 Statement of accounting policies IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, General information measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in The final version of the standard was issued in July 2014.
The address of its registered office is No.
1 Godwin Street, Bradford, primarily impacts the classification and measurement of financial assets BD1 2SU.
The company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
and liabilities and introduces the expected credit loss model for the measurement of the impairment of financial assets so it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before a credit loss is Basis of preparation recognised.
The group and company are in the process of assessing the The financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted impact of standard and will adopt the standard in line with the mandatory for use in the European Union EU, International Financial Reporting effective date of 1 January 2018, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Basis of consolidation basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments to fair value.
In preparing the financial The consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of statements, the directors are required to use certain critical accounting comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in estimates and are required to exercise judgement in the application of shareholders equity, statement of cash flows and notes to the financial the group and companys accounting policies.
statements include the financial statements of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up from the date control passes to the The group and companys principal accounting policies under IFRS, which group until the date control ceases.
have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below: Control is achieved when the group: has the power over the investee: a New and amended standards adopted by the group and company: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities amendments to the investee: and IAS 32 clarifies the requirements for offsetting financial instruments.
The amendments address inconsistencies in current practice when has the ability to use its power to affect returns.
applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 Financial instruments: All intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions Presentation.
The amendments clarify the meaning of currently between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
has a legally enforceable right of set-off and that some gross settlement systems may be considered equivalent to a net settlement.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the accounting The amendment has not had a material impact on the group or company.
Recoverable amount disclosures amendments to IAS 36 May 2013 are narrow-scope amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Revenue The amendment addresses the disclosure of information about the Revenue comprises interest and fee income earned by Vanquis Bank recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair and interest income earned by the Consumer Credit Division CCD value less costs of disposal.
The amendment has not had a material and Moneybarn.
impact on the group or company.
Revenue excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions.
Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting amendments to IAS 39 are narrow-scope amendments which allow Within Vanquis Bank, interest is calculated on credit card advances to hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative financial customers using the effective interest rate on the daily balance outstanding.
instrument, which has been designated as a hedging instrument, is Annual fees charged to customers credit card accounts are recognised novated to effect clearing with a central counterparty as a result of laws as part of the effective interest rate.
Penalty charges and other fees are or regulation, if specific conditions are met.
The amendment has not recognised at the time the charges are made to customers on the basis had a material impact on the group or company.
Within CCD and Moneybarn, revenue on customer receivables is recognised b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but using an effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate is calculated using not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2014 estimated cash flows, being contractual payments adjusted for the impact of and not early adopted: customers repaying early but excluding the anticipated impact of customers Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions amendments to paying late or not paying at all.
Directly attributable incremental issue IAS 19 Nov 2013 simplifies the accounting for contributions that costs are also taken into account in calculating the effective interest rate.
are independent of the number of years of employee service e. g. Interest income continues to be accrued on impaired receivables using the employee contributions that are calculated according to a fixed original effective interest rate applied to the loans carrying value.
The amendment is mandatory for accounting periods starting on or after 1 July 2014.
The amendment will be adopted from 1 January 2015 following endorsement by the EU in December 2014, and is not expected to have a material impact on the group or company.
Provident Financial plc 136 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Statement of accounting policies continued Finance costs Other intangible assets Finance costs principally comprise the interest on bank and other Other intangible assets include acquisition intangibles in respect of the borrowings including retail deposits and, for the company, on intra-group broker relationships at Moneybarn and stand-alone computer software and loan arrangements, and are recognised on an effective interest rate basis.
computer software development costs across the group Finance costs also include the fair value movement on those derivative The fair value of Moneybarns broker relationships on acquisition has been financial instruments held for hedging purposes which do not qualify for estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows from Moneybarns hedge accounting under IAS 39. core broker relationships over their estimated useful economic life of 10 years.
The asset will be amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated Dividend income useful life.
For more detail see key assumptions and estimates on page 141. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement when the companys Computer software and computer software development assets represent right to receive payment is established.
the costs incurred to acquire or develop software and bring it into use.
Directly attributable costs incurred in the development of software are Goodwill capitalised as an intangible asset if the software will generate future economic benefits.
Directly attributable costs include the cost of software All acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
development employees and an appropriate portion of relevant directly Goodwill is an intangible asset and is measured as the excess of the fair attributable overheads.
value of the consideration over the fair value of the acquired identifiable Computer software and computer software development costs are assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition.
Gains amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life and losses on the disposal of a subsidiary include the carrying amount which is generally estimated to be between five and 10 years.
The residual of goodwill relating to the subsidiary sold.
values and economic lives of intangible assets are reviewed by management Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purposes of impairment at each balance sheet date.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups Other intangible assets are valued at cost less subsequent amortisation.
of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business Amortisation is charged to the income statement as part of combination in which the goodwill arose.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment is tested by comparing the Foreign currency translation carrying value of the asset to the discounted expected future cash flows Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups subsidiaries from the relevant cash-generating unit.
Expected future cash flows are are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment derived from the groups latest budget projections and the discount rate in which the subsidiary operates the functional currency.
The groups is based on the groups weighted average cost of capital at the balance subsidiaries primarily operate in the UK and Republic of Ireland, with a pilot sheet date.
credit card operation in Poland.
The consolidated and company financial Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was eliminated statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and against shareholders funds under UK GAAP and was not reinstated on presentational currency.
On disposal of a business, any such goodwill relating to Transactions that are not denominated in the groups functional currency the business will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling Investments in subsidiaries at the balance sheet date.
Differences arising on translation are charged or Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, credited to the income statement, except when deferred in equity as effective provisions for impairment.
Impairment is calculated by comparing the cash flow hedges.
carrying value of the investment to the higher of the net asset value of the If a foreign operation were to be disposed of, the cumulative amount of the relevant subsidiary and its discounted expected future cash flows.
differences arising on translation recognised in other comprehensive income would be recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on Leases disposal is recognised.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The leases entered into by the group and company are solely operating leases.
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 137 Statement of accounting policies continued Amounts receivable from customers Property, plant and equipment Customer receivables are initially recorded at the amount advanced to the Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less accumulated customer plus directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequently, receivables depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost are increased by revenue and reduced by cash collections and any less impairment.
Cost represents invoiced cost plus any other costs that are directly The group assesses whether there is objective evidence that customer attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Repairs and maintenance costs receivables are impaired at each balance sheet date.
The principal criteria are expensed as incurred.
for determining whether there is objective evidence of impairment is Depreciation is calculated to write down assets to their estimated realisable delinquency in contractual payments.
values over their useful economic lives.
The following principal bases Within Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn, where repayments are typically are used: made monthly, customer balances are deemed to be impaired when one % Method monthly contractual payment is missed.
Impairment is calculated as the Land Nil difference between the carrying value of receivables and the present value Freehold and long of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest leasehold buildings 2 Straight line rate.
Estimated future cash flows are based on the historical performance Short leasehold buildings Over the lease period Straight line of customer balances falling into different arrears stages and are Equipment 1 regularly reassessed.
including computer hardware 10 to 33 3 Straight line Motor vehicles 25 Reducing balance Separate provisions are raised where forbearance is provided to the customer and alternative payment arrangements are established.
The residual values and useful economic lives of all assets are reviewed, Accounts under payment arrangements are separately identified according and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
All items of property, to the type of payment arrangement.
The carrying value of receivables under plant and equipment, other than land, are tested for impairment whenever each type of payment arrangement is calculated using historical cash flows events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not to predict future expected cash flows which are discounted at the original be recoverable.
Land is subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment effective interest rate.
loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets value in use or its fair value less costs Within the weekly home credit business of CCD, objective evidence of to sell.
impairment is based on the payment performance of loans in the previous 12 weeks as this is considered to be the most appropriate indicator of credit Gains and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are quality.
Loans are deemed to be impaired when the cumulative amount determined by comparing any proceeds with the carrying value of the asset of two or more contractual weekly payments have been missed in the and are recognised within administrative costs in the income statement.
previous 12-week period since only at this point do the expected future cash Depreciation is charged to the income statement as part of flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
Loans with one missed weekly administrative costs.
payment over the previous 12-week period are not deemed to be impaired.
The amount of impairment loss is calculated on a portfolio basis by reference to arrears stages and is measured as the difference between the carrying Cash and cash equivalents value of the loans and the present value of estimated future cash flows Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand which discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Subsequent cash flows are includes amounts invested in money market funds and UK government gilts regularly compared to estimated cash flows to ensure that the estimates held in accordance with the Prudential Regulation Authoritys PRA liquidity are sufficiently accurate for impairment provisioning purposes.
Bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that In Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn, impairment is recorded through the use there is no right of offset with cash balances.
of an allowance account whilst in CCD impairment charges are deducted directly from the carrying value of receivables.
Impairment is charged to the income statement as part of operating costs.
Provident Financial plc 138 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Statement of accounting policies continued When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash Derivative financial instruments flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative The group and company use derivative financial instruments, principally gain or loss deferred in equity at that time is immediately transferred to the interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward contracts, to income statement.
manage the interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the The fair values of various derivative financial instruments used for hedging groups underlying business operations.
No transactions of a speculative purposes are disclosed in note 17.
Movements on the hedging reserve in nature are undertaken.
shareholders equity are shown in note 26.
The full fair value of a derivative All derivative financial instruments are assessed against the hedge financial instrument is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the accounting criteria set out in IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months from the and measurement.
Derivative financial instruments that meet the hedge balance sheet date and as a current asset or liability when the remaining accounting requirements of IAS 39 are accordingly designated as either: maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months from the balance hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or firm commitments sheet date.
fair value hedges : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions Net investment hedges cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
The group uses a combination of borrowings denominated in overseas The relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items is currencies and foreign currency forward contracts as a hedge against the documented at the inception of a transaction, as well as the risk management translation exposure on the parents net investment in overseas branches.
objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets The assessment of whether the derivative financial instruments used in of those operations and or the parents investment caused by changes hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings and forward or cash flows of hedged items is documented, both at the hedge inception contracts are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income and and on an ongoing basis.
accumulated in the hedging reserve.
When a hedge is no longer deemed Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value to be highly effective, the ineffective part of any change in value caused on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the income statement with re-measured at each reporting date to their fair value.
Where derivative previous gains or losses deferred within equity being recycled to the financial instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting, movements in income statement.
the fair value are recognised immediately within the income statement.
Where hedge accounting criteria have been met, the resultant gain or loss Borrowings on the derivative financial instrument is recognised as follows: Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being issue proceeds less Fair value hedges any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between proceeds less transaction costs Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income expected life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
statement as part of finance costs, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Where borrowings are the subject of a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the borrowing that are attributable to the hedged risk are recognised Cash flow hedges in the income statement and a corresponding adjustment made to the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial carrying value of borrowings.
instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group or company recognised in the hedging reserve within equity.
The gain or loss relating has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement when the income or expense on the hedged item is Dividends paid recognised in the income statement.
Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised in the Hedge accounting for both fair value and cash flow hedges is group and companys financial statements as follows: discontinued when: Final dividend: when approved by the companys shareholders at the it is evident from testing that a derivative financial instrument is not, annual general meeting.
or has ceased to be, highly effective as a hedge: or Interim dividend: when paid by the company.
the derivative financial instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised: or the underlying hedged item matures or is sold or repaid.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 139 Statement of accounting policies continued Retirement benefits Share-based payments The company grants options under employee savings-related share option Defined benefit pension schemes schemes typically referred to as Save As You Earn schemes SAYE and The charge in the income statement in respect of defined benefit pension makes awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Long Term schemes comprises the actuarially assessed current service cost of Incentive Scheme LTIS.
All of the schemes are equity-settled.
working employees, together with the interest on pension liabilities offset by The cost of providing options and awards to group and company employees the interest on pension scheme assets.
All charges are recognised within is charged to the income statement of the group and company over the administrative costs in the income statement.
vesting period of the related options and awards.
The corresponding credit The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of is made to a share-based payment reserve within equity.
The grant by the defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of the schemes assets less company of options and awards over its equity instruments to the employees the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, of subsidiary undertakings is treated as an investment in the companys together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The fair value of employee services received, measured benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group and company have an by reference to the fair value at the date of grant, is recognised over the unconditional right to a refund of the asset or if it will be recovered in future vesting period as an increase in investments in subsidiary undertakings, with years as a result of reduced contributions to the pension scheme.
a corresponding credit to the share-based payment reserve within equity.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries The cost of options and awards is based on their fair value.
For PSP using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined schemes, the performance conditions are based on earnings per share benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash EPS.
Accordingly, the fair value of options and awards is determined using outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms a binomial option pricing model which is a suitable model for valuing options to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
with internal related targets such as EPS.
A binomial model is also used for calculating the fair value of SAYE options which have no performance Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes conditions attached.
The value of the charge is adjusted at each balance in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the statement of sheet date to reflect lapses and expected or actual levels of vesting, with comprehensive income.
a corresponding adjustment to the share-based payment reserve.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, For LTIS schemes, performance conditions are based on either divisional unless changes to the pension schemes are conditional on the employees profit before tax, EPS or Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this Accordingly, the fair value of awards is determined using a combination of case, past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the the binomial and Monte Carlo option pricing models.
The value of the charge vesting period.
is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect lapses.
Where the Monte Defined contribution pension schemes Carlo option pricing model is used to determine fair value, no adjustment is made to reflect expected or actual levels of vesting as the probability of the Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the awards vesting is taken into account in the initial calculation of the fair value income statement on an accruals basis.
Share capital A transfer is made from the share-based payment reserve to retained earnings when options and awards vest or lapse.
In respect of the SAYE Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly options, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, costs, are credited to share capital and share premium when the options net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any group company purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is included within a treasury shares reserve and deducted from equity until the shares are no longer held by a group company or cancelled.
Where such shares are reissued outside of the group, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, is included within the treasury shares reserve.
Provident Financial plc 140 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial statements continued Statement of accounting policies continued Taxation Key assumptions and estimates The tax charge represents the sum of current and deferred tax.
Current tax In applying the accounting policies set out above, the group and company is calculated based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates that have make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Taxable profit of assets and liabilities as follows: differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement Amounts receivable from customers 1,849.2m because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never The group reviews its portfolio of loans and receivables for impairment at taxable or deductible.
For the purposes of assessing the impairment of customer loans and receivables, customers are categorised into arrears Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences stages as this is considered to be the most reliable indication of future between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial payment performance.
The group makes judgements to determine whether statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of there is objective evidence which indicates that there has been an adverse taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
effect on expected future cash flows.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted Customer accounts in Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn are deemed to be or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply impaired when one contractual monthly payment has been missed.
In the when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is weekly home credit business, receivables are deemed to be impaired settled.
Deferred tax is also provided on temporary differences arising on when the cumulative amount of two or more contractual weekly payments investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the have been missed in the previous 12 weeks, since only at this point do the temporary difference is controlled by the company and it is probable that the expected future cash flows from loans deteriorate significantly.
temporary difference will not reverse in the future.
The level of impairment in each of the groups businesses is calculated Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future using models which use historical payment performance to generate the taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can estimated amount and timing of future cash flows from each arrears stage, be utilised.
and are regularly tested using subsequent cash collections to ensure they Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally retain sufficient accuracy.
The impairment models are regularly reviewed to enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and take account of the current economic environment, product mix and recent when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by customer payment performance.
However, on the basis that the payment the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable performance of customers could be different from the assumptions used in entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
estimating future cash flows, a material adjustment to the carrying value of amounts receivable from customers may be required.
Exceptional items To the extent that the net present value of estimated future cash flows differs Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their size, nature by 1%, it is estimated that the amounts receivable from customers would or incidence and which the directors consider should be disclosed separately be approximately 18m 2013: 16m higher lower.
to enable a full understanding of the groups results.
Supplementary information In order to assist shareholders and other users of the groups financial statements, supplementary commentary has been provided within the groups financial statements within highlighted boxes.
This supplementary information does not form part of the statutory, audited financial statements.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 141 Statement of accounting policies continued Tax current tax liabilities 40.4m, deferred tax liabilities 13.6m Key assumptions and estimates continued The tax treatment of certain items cannot be determined precisely until tax Other intangible assets broker relationships 72.5m audits or enquiries have been completed by the tax authorities.
In some instances, this can be years after the item has first been reflected in the Moneybarns broker relationships have been allocated a fair value on financial statements.
The group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax acquisition as the relationships are an important influence on the revenueaudit and enquiry issues based on an assessment of the probability of such generating capacity of the business.
If the outcome of such audits is that the final liability The broker relationships have been valued using a dividend discount model is different from the amount originally estimated, such differences will be on the forecast surplus cash flows generated by Moneybarns core broker recognised in the period in which the tax audit or enquiry is concluded.
This methodology is in line with the groups existing valuation Any differences may necessitate a material adjustment to the level of tax model used for budgeting purposes.
Forecast surplus cash flows have been balances held in the balance sheet.
derived against the groups target capital structure of a maximum gearing If the probability assessment of uncertain tax liabilities was adjusted by ratio of 3.5 times and then discounted at an appropriate cost of capital to 5%, it is estimated that the groups tax liabilities would be 1m 2013: 1m derive the fair value of the intangible asset.
The calculation of the broker relationships intangible asset reflects a number of key judgements and estimates, which have a material effect on the Retirement benefit asset 56.0m carrying value of the asset.
These include: The valuation of the retirement benefit asset is dependent upon a series of Cash flow forecasts have been extracted from the budget produced by assumptions: the key assumptions being mortality rates, the discount rate Moneybarn following acquisition, which involves a number of judgements applied to liabilities and inflation rates.
and estimates, particularly in respect of new business volumes, collections Mortality estimates are based on standard mortality tables, adjusted where performance and the cost base of the business.
appropriate to reflect the groups own expected experience.
Discount rates A useful economic life of 10 years has been applied to Moneybarns are based on the market yields of high quality corporate bonds which core broker relationships.
Management consider this to be a reasonable have terms closely linked with the estimated term of the retirement benefit estimate based on Moneybarns current business model and that used obligation.
Inflation assumptions reflect long-term market expectations for in constructing the budget.
Moneybarns budget has been extended by a further five years from five Sensitivity analysis of the groups main assumptions is set out in note 19. years to 10 years using high-level growth rates to reflect managements estimate of surplus cash flows over the whole useful economic life of broker relationships.
The surplus cash flows generated by Moneybarn have been calculated as those over and above the equity retained in the business to meet the groups target capital structure.
The groups target capital structure of 20% equity and 80% debt is considered to be an appropriate capital structure for the Moneybarn business.
The discount rate applied to the forecast surplus cash flows has been estimated based on Moneybarns cost of capital prior to acquisition.
The nature and inherent uncertainty relating to the above judgements and estimates means that the forecast cash flows may be materially different from actual cash flows.
A material future reduction in forecast surplus cash flows from broker relationships would necessitate a full impairment review and the possibility of a material impairment charge in future years.
