Group overview Group Chief Executives report A h s t s : g e s t n e o t e m a p r t t t a S i s n m d n a i e o g s t i e e d n l m U i u e n b t : Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 07 Our strategy and operating principles The Groups strategy remains unchanged and is focused on Balanced capturing three long-term metrics and opportunities: disclosures The significant protection gap and investment needs of the Asian middle class: The transition of US baby boomers into retirement: and Focus on Disciplined Sustainable The UK savings gap and customers and capital value for our ageing population in need distribution allocation stakeholders of returns and income.
Our disciplined execution of this strategy has continued to drive profitable growth and higher cash generation, underlining our Proactive risk commitment to delivering both management Growth and Cash.
O ur strategy and operating principles page 18 UK life IFRS operating profit grew by flexibility, as illustrated by our ability to agree 7 per cent to 752 million, benefiting a new deal with Standard Chartered Bank in 3,186m from higher contributions from bulk 2014.
The ability of the Group to generate IFRS operating profit annuities, which outweighed the impact both growth and cash remains a distinctive of significantly lower sales of individual feature of Prudential in our industry.
3 annuities following UK market reforms: New business profit was up and 10 per cent to 2,126 million, driven in 14% 1 2014 by a combination of higher volumes increase on 2013 M&G delivered operating profit of and pricing and product actions aimed at 2 488 million, an increase of 11 per cent, M easuring our performance page 20 enhancing profitability.
All three of our life reflecting continued strong third-party businesses made strong contributions, net inflows combined with favourable with new business profits from Asia market movements in the period, which growing by 13 per cent to 1,162 million, together have increased M&Gs the US delivering 694 million, up external funds under management by 4 per cent, and the UK reporting 11.0 billion to a record 137.0 billion.
4 Net cash remittances from our businesses APE sales increased by 12 per cent increased by 11 per cent to 1,482 million, to 4,650 million.
In Asia, APE sales were driven by strong organic cash generation and 15 per cent higher at 2,237 million with 5 supported by robust local capital positions.
APE sales from our sweet spot markets Cash remittances of 400 million from Asia continuing to be a strong driver of growth.
were consistent with 2013, the US was up In the US, APE sales were up 4 per cent 41 per cent to a record of 415 million, the at 1,556 million as we continued to UK remitted cash of 325 million, as we have proactively manage our sales of variable been increasing our level of investment in the annuities with guarantees.
We continue to diversify our product mix with sales of Elite business in response to the UK market reforms, while M&G including Prudential Access, our innovative variable annuity without guarantees, increasing by Capital delivered an increase of 17 per cent to a new high of 342 million.
Such levels of 26 per cent and contributing to an increase in the proportion of variable annuities sold cash generation are the bedrock of our financial strength.
Underlying free surplus without living benefit guarantees to 34 per cent of total variable annuity sales.
generation from our life and asset management businesses, a key indicator In the UK, APE sales grew by 18 per cent to of cash production in these businesses, 857 million, reflecting strong bulk annuity was 9 per cent higher at 2,579 million and investment bond volumes which offset after reinvestment in new business.
We the significant contraction of the retail annuity deliberately run the Group to seek to market that followed the Budget reform.
generate organically significant amounts M&G delivered net inflows of 7.1 billion of cash in each of our businesses.
The 2013: 9.5 billion as it continued to benefit successful implementation of this approach from high levels of retail sales from gives us added strategic and financial Continental Europe, while Eastspring U n i e t t e a d f : r o a e K i c s l i u e A n s c g c d a o m :
