Financial statements D: Other notes P Pr ru ud fide en nt ti ia al l p pl lc c A Ann nnu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 14 4 2 25 57 7 The consideration for the transaction was THB 18.981 billion 412 million, of which THB 17.500 billion 380 million was settled in cash on completion in May 2013 with a further payment of THB 0.946 billion 20 million, for adjustments to reflect the net asset value as at completion date, paid in July 2013.
In addition a deferred payment of THB 0.535 billion 12 million was paid 12 months after completion.
Included in the total consideration of THB 18.981 billion 412 million was the cost of the distribution rights associated with the exclusive 15-year bancassurance partnership agreement with Thanachart Bank.
D2:  On 1 January 2014, following consultation with policyholders of PAC and regulators and court approval, the Hong Kong branch of PAC was transferred to separate subsidiaries established in Hong Kong.
On an IFRS basis, approximately 12.6 billion of assets, 12.3 billion of liabilities including policyholder liabilities of 10.2 billion and 1.7 billion of unallocated surplus and 0.3 billion of shareholders funds for the excess assets of the transferred non-participating business were transferred.
The costs of enabling the domestication in 2014 were 5 million 2013: 35 million.
Within the Groups supplementary analysis of profit, these costs have been presented as a separate category of items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as shown in note B1.1.
D3:  The Group is involved in a number of litigation and regulatory issues.
These include civil proceedings involving Jackson, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
Whilst the outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 The pensions review by the UK insurance regulator of past sales of personal pension policies required all UK life insurance companies to review their cases of potential mis-selling and record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the UK insurance regulator to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
At 31 December 2014 the pension mis-selling provision was 328 million 2013: 286 million.
The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4 and is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate in the movement in the year is 2.0 per cent 2013: 3.4 per cent.
The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling including administration costs.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below and, accordingly have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
This review was completed on 30 June 2002 with the assurance continuing to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future fixed, retail price index or salary related increases and Department of Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
Guaranteedannuities PAC used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2014 held a provision of 50 million 2013: 36 million within the main with-profits fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2014 a provision of 549 million 2013: 328 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the PAC long-term business fund, attributable to the policyholders, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Othermatters  The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the long-term insurance fund of PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
This estate enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent of its utilisation.
2 258 58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements D: Othernotescontinued D3:   As a proprietary insurance company, PAC is liable to meet its obligations to policyholders even if the assets of the long-term funds are insufficient to do so.
The assets, represented by the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, in excess of amounts expected to be paid for future terminal bonuses and related shareholder transfers the excess assets in the long-term funds could be materially depleted over time by, for example, a significant or sustained equity market downturn, costs of significant fundamental strategic change or a material increase in the pension mis-selling provision.
In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of the excess assets within the long-term fund was such that the Groups ability to satisfy policyholders reasonable expectations was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support.
In 1997, the business of Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society, a mutual society, was transferred to PAC with the creation of a separate sub-fund, SAIF within PACs long-term business fund containing all the with-profits business and all other pension business that was transferred.
No new business has been or will be written in the sub-fund and it is managed to ensure that all the invested assets are distributed to SAIF policyholders over the lifetime of SAIF policies.
With the exception of certain amounts in respect of the unitised with-profits life business, all future earnings arising in SAIF are retained for SAIF policyholders.
Any excess deficiency of revenue over expense within SAIF during a period is attributable to the policyholders of the fund.
Shareholders have no interest in the profits of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on this business.
SAIF with-profits policies contain minimum levels of guaranteed benefit to policyholders.
In addition, as mentioned earlier in this note, certain pensions products have guaranteed annuity rates at retirement.
Should the assets of SAIF be inadequate to meet the guaranteed benefit obligations of the policyholders of SAIF, the PAC long-term fund would be liable to cover any such deficiency in the first instance.
 Jackson has received regulatory enquiries on an industry-wide matter regarding claims settlement practices and compliance with unclaimed property laws.
Concurrently, some regulators and state legislatures have required life insurance companies to take additional steps to identify unreported deceased policy and contract holders.
Additionally, numerous states are contracting with independent firms to perform specific unclaimed property audits or targeted market conduct examinations covering claims settlement practices and procedures for escheating unclaimed property.
Any regulatory audits, related examination activity and internal reviews may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, escheatment of funds ie reversion of funds to the state deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties and changes in Jacksons procedures for the identification of unreported claims and handling of escheatable property.
Jackson continually reviews active and recently terminated policies compared to vendors databases of known deaths.
At 31 December 2014, Jackson has accrued 13 million to cover any such liability.
 Guarantee funds in both the UK and the US provide for payments to be made to policyholders on behalf of insolvent life insurance companies and are financed by payments assessed on solvent insurance companies based on location, volume and types of business.
The Group estimated its reserve for future guarantee fund assessments for Jackson, included within other liabilities to be 3 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 13 million.
Similar assessments for the UK businesses were not significant.
The directors believe that the reserve is adequate for all anticipated payments for known insolvencies.
At 31 December 2014, Jackson has unfunded commitments of 332 million 2013: 298 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and 73 million 2013: 132 million related to commercial mortgage loans.
These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the directors do not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them.
The Group has provided other guarantees and commitments to third parties entered into in the normal course of business but the Company does not consider that the amounts involved are significant.
 Prudential and PAC have put in place intra-group arrangements to formalise circumstances in which capital support would be made available by Prudential including in the scenarios referred to in pension mis-selling review above.
While Prudential considers it unlikely that such support will be required, the arrangements are intended to provide additional comfort to PAC and its policyholders.
In addition, Prudential has put in place intra-group arrangements to formalise undertakings by Prudential to the regulators of the Hong Kong subsidiaries, which from 1 January 2014, contain the domesticated branch business from PAC as noted in note D2 regarding their solvency levels.
In addition, the scheme of transfer of the Hong Kong branch includes short-term support arrangements between Prudential and PAC to underpin similar arrangements between PAC and the newly domesticated business.
It is considered unlikely that support will need to be provided under these arrangements.
