262 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes on the parent company financial statements Notes on the parent company financial statements 1 Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company is a parent holding company.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries collectively the Group, is an international financial services group with its principal operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
In Asia, the Group has operations in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and other countries.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company.
In the UK, the Group operates through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, Prudential Retirement Income Limited and M&G Investment Management Limited.
2 Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company, which comprise the balance sheet and related notes, are prepared in accordance with Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standards FRS and Statements of Standard Accounting Practice SSAP.
The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement on the basis that its cash flow is included within the cash flow statement in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption within FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, from the requirements of this standard, because the Companys results are included in the publicly available consolidated financial statements of the Group that include disclosures that comply with IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is equivalent to FRS 29.
3 Significant accounting policies Shares in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are shown at the lower of cost and estimated realisable value.
Loans to subsidiary undertakings Loans to subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost, less provisions.
Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are held to manage certain macroeconomic exposures.
Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds, net of transaction costs, is amortised through the profit and loss account to the date of maturity, or, for subordinated debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Share premium The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares and the nominal value of the shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Foreign currency translation Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, including borrowings that have been used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries, are translated at year end exchange rates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded within the profit and loss account for the year.
