226 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C6: Borrowingscontinued Notes i In addition to the debt listed above, 200 million Floating Rate Notes were issued by Prudential plc in October 2014 which will mature in October 2015.
These Notes have been wholly subscribed to a Group subsidiary and accordingly have been eliminated on consolidation in the Group financial statements.
These Notes were originally issued in October 2008 and have been reissued upon their maturity.
ii Other borrowings mainly include amounts whose repayment to the lender is contingent upon future surplus emerging from certain contracts specified under the arrangement.
If insufficient surplus emerges on those contracts, there is no recourse to other assets of the Group and the liability is not payable to the degree of shortfall.
In addition, other borrowings include senior debt issued through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis FHLB, secured by collateral posted with the FHLB by Jackson.
iii In January 2015, the Company issued 300 million Medium Term Notes which will mature in January 2018.
The proceeds, net of costs, were 299 million.
iv In all instances the holders of the debt instruments issued by these subsidiaries and funds do not have recourse beyond the assets of those subsidiaries and funds.
b  2014 m 2013 m Non-recourse borrowings of consolidated investment funds 924 691 100m 8.5% undated subordinated guaranteed bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc 100 100 Other borrowings predominantly obligations under finance leases 69 104 Total 1,093 895 The interests of the holders of the bonds issued by Scottish Amicable Finance plc, a subsidiary of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund, are subordinated to the entitlements of the policyholders of that fund.
C6.3 Maturityanalysis The following table sets out the remaining contractual maturity analysis of the Groups borrowings on the statement of financial position:     Borrowings 2014 m 2013 m 2014 m 2013 m 2014 m 2013 m Less than 1 year 2,153 1,835 119 35 1 to 2 years 9 309 50 126 2 to 3 years 275 1 8 65 49 3 to 4 years 275 74 53 4 to 5 years 65 31 59 Over 5 years 4,029 4,361 35 754 573 Total 4,304 4,636 2,263 2,152 1,093 895 C7:  C7.1 Groupoverview The Groups risk framework and the management of the risk including those attached to the Groups financial statements including financial assets, financial liabilities and insurance liabilities, together with the inter-relationship with the management of capital have been included in the audited sections of Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength within the Strategic Report.
The financial and insurance assets and liabilities on the Groups balance sheet are, to varying degrees, subject to market and insurance risk and other changes of experience assumptions that may have a material effect on IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity.
The market and insurance risks, including how they affect Groups operations and how they are managed are discussed in the Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing our business and our capital strength.
The most significant items for which the IFRS shareholders profit or loss and shareholders equity for the Groups life assurance business is sensitive to, are shown in the following tables.
The distinction between direct and indirect exposure is not intended to indicate the relative size of the sensitivity.
Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 227 Typeofbusiness Marketandcreditrisk  Investments derivatives Liabilities unallocatedsurplus Otherexposure  seealsosectionC7.2 Mortality and All business Currency risk morbidity risk Persistency risk With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure indirect exposure only Investment performance subject to smoothing through declared bonuses Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure indirect exposure only Investment performance through asset management fees Non-participating Asset liability mismatch risk business Credit risk Interest rates for those operations where the basis of insurance liabilities is sensitive to current market movements Interest rate and price risk  seealsosectionC7.3 All business Currency risk Persistency risk Variable annuity Net effect of market risk arising from incidence of guarantee business features and variability of asset management fees offset by derivative hedging programme Fixed index annuity Derivative hedge programme Incidence of equity business to the extent not fully hedged participation features against liability Fixed index annuities, Credit risk Interest rate risk Spread difference Lapse risk, but the Fixed annuities and Profit and loss and between earned rate and effects of extreme GIC business shareholders equity are rate credited to events are mitigated volatile for these risks as they policyholders by the application affect the values of derivatives of market value and embedded derivatives adjustments and impairment losses.
In addition, shareholders equity is volatile for the incidence of these risks on unrealised appreciation of fixed income securities classified as available-for-sale under IAS 39  seealsosectionC7.4 With-profits business Net neutral direct exposure indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk to subject to smoothing future shareholder through declared transfers bonuses SAIF sub-fund Net neutral direct exposure indirect exposure only Asset management fees earned by M&G Unit-linked business Net neutral direct exposure indirect exposure only Investment performance Persistency risk through asset management fees Asset liability mismatch risk Shareholder-backed Credit risk for assets covering Mortality experience annuity business liabilities and shareholder and assumptions capital for longevity Interest rate risk for assets in excess of liabilities ie assets representing shareholder capital 228 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C7:  Detailed analyses of sensitivity of IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders equity to key market and other risks by business unit are provided in notes C7.2, C7.3, C7.4 and C7.5.
The sensitivity analyses provided show the effect on profit or loss and shareholders equity to changes in the relevant risk variables, all of which are reasonably possible at the relevant balance sheet date.
In the equity risk sensitivity analysis shown below, the Group has considered the impact of an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets.
If equity markets were to fall by more than 20 per cent, the Group believes that this would not be an instantaneous fall but rather this would be expected to occur over a period of time during which the Group would be able to put mitigating management actions in place.
In addition, the equity risk sensitivity analysis provided assumed that all equity indices fall by the same percentage.
 The Group enjoys significant diversification benefits achieved through the geographical spread of the Groups operations and, within those operations through a broad mix of product types.
This arises because not all risk scenarios are likely to happen at the same time and across all geographic regions.
Relevant correlation factors include: Correlation across geographic regions: Financial risk factors: and Non-financial risk factors.
Correlation across risk factors: Longevity risk: Expenses: Persistency: and Other risks.
The effect of Group diversification across the Groups life businesses is to significantly reduce the aggregate standalone volatility risk to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns.
The effect is almost wholly explained by the correlations across risk types, in particular mortality and longevity risk.
C7.2   The Asia operations sell with-profits and unit-linked policies and, although the with-profits business generally has a lower terminal bonus element than in the UK, the investment portfolio still contains a proportion of equities.
Non-participating business is largely backed by debt securities or deposits.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from its Asia operations is therefore at modest levels.
This reflects the fact that the Asia operations have a balanced portfolio of with-profits, unit-linked and other types of business.
In Asia, adverse persistency experience can impact the IFRS profitability of certain types of business written in the region.
This risk is managed at a business unit level through regular monitoring of experience and the implementation of management actions as necessary.
These actions could include product enhancements, increased management focus on premium collection as well as other customer retention efforts.
The potential financial impact of lapses is often mitigated through the specific features of the products, eg surrender charges, or through the availability of premium holiday or partial withdrawal policy features.
In summary, for Asia operations, the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is mainly affected by the impact of market levels on unit-linked persistency, and other insurance risks.
At the total IFRS profit level the Asia result is affected by short-term value movements on the asset portfolio for non-linked shareholder-backed business.
i Sensitivity to risks other than foreign exchange risk With-profits business Similar principles to those explained for UK with-profits business in C7.4 apply to profit emergence for the Asia with-profits business.
Correspondingly, the profit emergence reflects bonus declaration and is relatively insensitive to period by period fluctuations in insurance risk or interest rate movements.
Unit-linked business As for the UK insurance operations, for unit-linked business, the main factor affecting the profit and shareholders equity of the Asia operations is investment performance through asset management fees.
The sensitivity of profits and shareholders equity to changes in insurance risk, interest rate risk and credit risk are not material.
Other business Interest rate risk Excluding its with-profit and unit-linked business, the results of the Asia business are sensitive to the vagaries of routine movements in interest rates.
Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 229 For the purposes of analysing sensitivity to variations in interest rates, reference has been made to the movements in the 10-year government bond rates of the territories.
At 31 December 2014, 10-year government bond rates vary from territory to territory and range from 1.6 per cent to 8.0 per cent 2013: 1.7 per cent to 9.0 per cent.
For the sensitivity analysis as shown in the table below, the reasonably possible interest rate movement used is one per cent for all territories but subject to a floor of zero where the bond rates are currently below 1 per cent.
The estimated sensitivity to the decrease and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: 2014 m 2013 m Decrease Increase Decrease Increase of1% of1% of1% of1% Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 54 137 311 215 Related deferred tax where applicable 5 24 34 40 Net effect on profit and shareholders equity 59 113 277 175 The pre-tax impacts, if they arose, would mostly be recorded within the category short-term fluctuations in investments returns in the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax.
The degree of sensitivity of the results of the non-linked shareholder-backed business of the Asia operations to movements in interest rates depends upon the degree to which the liabilities under the grandfathered IFRS 4 measurement basis reflects market interest rates from period to period.
For example for those countries, such as those applying US GAAP, the results can be more sensitive as the effect of interest rate movements on the backing investments may not be offset by liability movements.
In addition, the degree of sensitivity of the results shown in the table above is dependent on the interest rate level at that point of time.
In 2014, the lower interest rates in certain countries have had an adverse impact on the degree of sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates.
Equity price risk The non-linked shareholder business has limited exposure to equity and property investment 31 December 2014: 932 million.
Generally changes in equity and property investment values are not directly offset by movements in policyholder liabilities.
The estimated sensitivity to a 10 per cent and 20 per cent change in equity and property prices for shareholder-backed Asia other business, which would be reflected in the short-term fluctuation component of the Groups segmental analysis of profit before tax, at 31 December 2014 and 2013 would be as follows: 2014 m 2013 m Decrease Decrease Decrease Decrease of20% of10% of20% of10% Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 187 93 114 57 Related deferred tax where applicable 23 11 24 12 Net effect on profit and shareholders equity 164 82 90 45 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reflect the impact of temporary market movements and, therefore, the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of profits, be included within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Insurance risk Many of the territories in Asia are exposed to mortality morbidity risk and provision is made within policyholder liabilities on a prudent regulatory basis to cover the potential exposure.
If these prudent assumptions were strengthened by 5 per cent then it is estimated that post-tax profit and shareholders equity would be decreased by approximately 47 million 2013: 38 million.
Mortality and morbidity has a symmetrical effect on the portfolio and any weakening of these assumptions would have a similar equal and opposite impact.
230 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C7:  ii Sensitivity to foreign exchange risk Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Asia insurance operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2014, the rates for the most significant operations are given in note A1.
A 10 per cent increase strengthening of the pound sterling or decrease weakening of the pound sterling in these rates would have reduced or increased profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asia operations respectively as follows: A10%increaseinlocal A10%decreaseinlocal   2014 m 2013 m 2014 m 2013 m Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 111 63 135 77 Profit for the year 95 49 117 60 Shareholders equity, excluding goodwill, attributable to Asia operations 315 246 384 300 C7.3   At the level of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, Jacksons results are sensitive to market conditions to the extent of income earned on spread-based products and indirectly in respect of variable annuity asset management fees.
Jacksons main exposures are to market risk through its exposure to interest rate risk and equity risk.
Approximately 94 per cent 2013: 94 per cent of its general account investments support fixed interest rate and fixed index annuities, life business and surplus and 6 per cent 2013: 6 per cent support institutional businesses.
All of these types of business contain considerable interest rate guarantee features and, consequently, require that the assets that support them are primarily fixed income or fixed maturity.
Jackson is exposed primarily to the following risks: Risks Riskofloss Equity risk Related to the incidence of benefits related to guarantees issued in connection with its variable annuity contracts: and Related to meeting contractual accumulation requirements in fixed index annuity contracts.
Interest rate risk Related to meeting guaranteed rates of accumulation on fixed annuity products following a sharp and sustained fall in interest rates: Related to the guarantee features attached to the Companys products and to policyholder withdrawals following a sharp and sustained increase in interest rates: and The risk of mismatch between the expected duration of certain annuity liabilities and prepayment risk and extension risk inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
Jacksons derivative programme is used to manage interest rate risk associated with a broad range of products and equity market risk attaching to its equity-based products.
Movements in equity markets, interest rates and credit spreads materially affect the carrying value of derivatives which are used to manage the liabilities to policyholders and backing investment assets.
Combined with the use of US GAAP measurement as grandfathered under IFRS 4 for the insurance contracts assets and liabilities which is largely insensitive to current period market movements, the Jackson total profit ie including short-term fluctuations in investment returns is very sensitive to market movements.
In addition to these effects the Jackson shareholders equity is sensitive to the impact of interest rate and credit spread movements on the value of fixed income securities.
Movements in unrealised appreciation on these securities are included as movement in shareholders equity ie outside the income statement.
Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 231 Jackson enters into financial derivative transactions, including those noted below to reduce and manage business risks.
These transactions manage the risk of a change in the value, yield, price, cash flows or quantity of, or a degree of exposure with respect to assets, liabilities or future cash flows, which Jackson has acquired or incurred.
Jackson uses free-standing derivative instruments for hedging purposes.
Additionally, certain liabilities, primarily trust instruments supported by funding agreements, fixed index annuities, certain Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit variable annuity features and reinsured Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit variable annuity features contain embedded derivatives as defined by IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Jackson does not account for such derivatives as either fair value or cash flow hedges as might be permitted if the specific hedge documentation requirements of IAS 39 were followed.
Financial derivatives, including derivatives embedded in certain host liabilities that have been separated for accounting and financial reporting purposes are carried at fair value.
Value movements on the derivatives are reported within the income statement.
In preparing Jacksons segment profit as shown in note B1.1 value movements on Jacksons derivative contracts, are included within short-term fluctuations in investment returns and excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns.
The principal types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: Derivative Purpose Interest rate swap These generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount.
These agreements are used for hedging purposes.
Put-swaption contracts These contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates.
Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 5 years.
Put-swaptions hedge against significant movements in interest rates.
Equity index futures contracts These derivatives including various call and put options and interest rate contingent options are used and equity index options to hedge Jacksons obligations associated with its issuance of fixed index deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees.
Some of these annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes.
Total return swaps Total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term floating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes.
Cross-currency swaps Cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jacksons foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations.
Credit default swaps These swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio.
These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty if a default event occurs in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement.
Jackson does not write default protection using credit derivatives.
The estimated sensitivity of Jacksons profit and shareholders equity to equity and interest rate risks provided below is net of the related changes in amortisation of DAC.
The effect on the related changes in amortisation of DAC provided is based on the current grandfathered US GAAP DAC basis but does not include any effect from an acceleration or deceleration of amortisation of DAC.
232 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C7:  i Sensitivity to equity risk At 31 December 2014 and 2013, Jackson had variable annuity contracts with guarantees, for which the net amount at risk NAR is defined as the amount of guaranteed benefit in excess of current account value, as follows: Period Net Weighted until Minimum Account amount average expected return value atrisk attainedage annuitisation 31December2014 m m Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 64,344 1,463 65.0 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,151 32 GMWB 0-5% 264 17 GMAB Premium only 0% 53 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 6,581 193 65.0 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 2,131 85 GMWB 830 58 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 3,978 302 67.5 years GMIB 0-6% 1,595 360 1.4 years GMWB 0-8% 57,323 2,033 Period Net Weighted until Minimum Account amount average expected return value atrisk attainedage annuitisation 31December2013 m m Return of net deposits plus a minimum return GMDB 0-6% 52,985 1,248 64.7 years GMWB Premium only 0% 2,260 36 GMWB 0-5% 289 18 GMAB Premium only 0% 57 Highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 5,522 134 64.6 years GMWB Highest anniversary only 2,039 93 GMWB 875 63 Combination net deposits plus minimum return, highest specified anniversary account value minus withdrawals post-anniversary GMDB 0-6% 3,522 217 66.9 years GMIB 0-6% 1,642 317 2.4 years GMWB 0-8% 46,091 1,087 Amounts shown for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit comprise sums for the not for life portion where the guaranteed withdrawal base less the account value equals to the net amount at risk NAR, and a for life portion where the NAR has been estimated as the present value of future expected benefit payment remaining after the amount of the not for life guaranteed benefits is zero.
Ranges shown based on simple interest.
The upper limits of 5 per cent, or 8 per cent simple interest are approximately equal to 4.1 per cent and 6 per cent respectively, on a compound interest basis over a typical ten year bonus period.
For example 1 10 x 0.05 is similar to 1.041 growing at a compound rate of 4.01 per cent for a further nine years.
The GMIB reinsurance guarantees are essentially fully reinsured.
Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 233 Account balances of contracts with guarantees were invested in variable separate accounts as follows: 2014 m 2013 m Mutual fund type: Equity 50,071 40,529 Bond 11,139 10,043 Balanced 12,901 10,797 Money market 675 703 Total 74,786 62,072 As noted above, Jackson is exposed to equity risk through the options embedded in the fixed index annuity liabilities and Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit and Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit guarantees included in certain variable annuity benefits as illustrated above.
This risk is managed using an equity hedging programme to minimise the risk of a significant economic impact as a result of increases or decreases in equity market levels while taking advantage of naturally offsetting exposures in Jacksons operations.
Jackson purchases external futures and options that hedge the risks inherent in these products, while also considering the impact of rising and falling separate account fees.
As a result of this hedging programme, if the equity markets were to increase further in the future, the net effect of Jacksons free-standing derivatives would decrease in value.
However, over time, this movement would be broadly offset by increased separate account fees and reserve decreases, net of the related changes to amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
Due to the nature of the free-standing and embedded derivatives, this hedge, while highly effective on an economic basis, may not completely mute in the financial reporting the immediate impact of equity market movements as the free-standing derivatives reset immediately while the hedged liabilities reset more slowly and fees are recognised prospectively.
The opposite impact would be observed if the equity markets were to decrease.
In addition to the exposure explained above, Jackson is also exposed to equity risk from its holding of equity securities, partnerships in investment pools and other financial derivatives.
At 31 December 2014, the estimated sensitivity of Jacksons profit and shareholders equity to immediate increases and decreases in equity markets is shown below.
The sensitivities are shown net of related changes in DAC amortisation.
2014 m 2013 m Decrease Decrease Increase Increase Decrease Decrease Increase Increase of20% of10% of20% of10% of20% of10% of20% of10% Pre-tax profit, net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 360 130 8 25 485 165 213 77 Related deferred tax effects 126 46 3 9 170 58 74 27 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 234 84 5 16 315 107 139 50 Note The table above has been prepared to exclude the impact of the instantaneous equity movements on the separate account fees.
In addition, the sensitivity movements shown include those relating to the fixed index annuity and the reinsurance of GMIB guarantees.
The above table provides sensitivity movements as at a point in time while the actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon the volume of new product sales and lapses, changes to the derivative portfolio, correlation of market returns and various other factors including volatility, interest rates and elapsed time.
The directional movements in the sensitivities reflect the hedging programme in place at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
234 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C7:  ii Sensitivity to interest rate risk Notwithstanding the market risk exposure previously described, except in the circumstances of interest rate scenarios where the guarantee rates included in contract terms are higher than crediting rates that can be supported from assets held to cover liabilities, the accounting measurement of fixed annuity liabilities of Jackson products is not generally sensitive to interest rate risk.
This position derives from the nature of the products and the US GAAP basis of measurement.
The Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit features attached to variable annuity business other than for-life are accounted for as embedded derivatives which are fair valued and so will be sensitive to changes in interest rate.
Debt securities and related derivatives are marked to fair value.
Value movements on derivatives, again net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within the income statement.
Fair value movements on debt securities, net of related changes to amortisation of DAC and deferred tax, are recorded within other comprehensive income.
The estimated sensitivity of these items and policyholder liabilities to a 1 per cent and 2 per cent decrease subject to a floor of zero and increase in interest rates at 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: 2014 m 2013 m Decrease Decrease Increase Increase Decrease Decrease Increase Increase of2% of1% of1% of2% of2% of1% of1% of2% Profit and loss: Pre-tax profit effect net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 1,398 690 494 875 128 66 52 161 Related effect on charge for deferred tax 489 242 173 306 45 23 18 56 Net profit effect 909 448 321 569 83 43 34 105 Other comprehensive income: Direct effect on carrying value of debt securities net of related changes in amortisation of DAC 2,979 1,663 1,663 2,979 2,624 1,477 1,477 2,624 Related effect on movement in deferred tax 1,043 582 582 1,043 918 517 517 918 Net effect 1,936 1,081 1,081 1,936 1,706 960 960 1,706 Total net effect on shareholders equity 1,027 633 760 1,367 1,623 917 994 1,811 These sensitivities are shown only for interest rates in isolation and do not include other movements in credit risk that may affect credit spreads and valuations of debt securities.
Similar to sensitivity to equity risk, the sensitivity movements provided in the table above are at a point in time and reflects the hedging programme in place on the balance sheet date, while the actual impact on financial results would vary contingent upon a number of factors.
iii Sensitivity to foreign exchange risk Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of the Groups US operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
For 2014, the average and closing rates were US$1.65 2013: US$1.56 and US$1.56 2013: US$1.66 to 1.00 sterling, respectively.
A 10 per cent increase weakening of the dollar or decrease strengthening of the dollar in these rates would reduce or increase profit before tax attributable to shareholders, profit for the year and shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations respectively as follows: A10%increaseinUS$: A10%decreaseinUS$: exchangerates exchangerates 2014 m 2013 m 2014 m 2013 m note Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 23 50 29 61 Profit for the year 23 41 28 50 Shareholders equity attributable to US insurance operations 370 313 452 383 Note Sensitivity on profit loss before tax, ie aggregate of the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 235 iv Other sensitivities Total profit of Jackson is very sensitive to market risk on the assets covering liabilities other than variable annuity business segregated in the separate accounts.
As with other shareholder-backed business the profit or loss for Jackson is presented by distinguishing the result for the year between an operating result based on longer-term investment returns and short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
In this way the most significant direct effect of market changes that have taken place to the Jackson result are separately identified.
The principal determinants of variations in operating profit based on longer-term returns are: Growth in the size of assets under management covering the liabilities for the contracts in force: Variations in fees and other income, offset by variations in market value adjustment payments and, where necessary, strengthening of liabilities: Spread returns for the difference between investment returns and rates credited to policyholders: and Amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the expected long-term spread between the earned rate and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges all of which are based on a combination of actual experience of Jackson, industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual experience is measured by internally developed expense, mortality and persistency studies.
Except to the extent of mortality experience, which primarily affects profits through variations in claim payments and Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit reserves, the profits of Jackson are relatively insensitive to changes in insurance risk.
Jackson is sensitive to lapse risk and other types of policyholder behaviour, such as the take-up of its Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit product features.
Jackson has extensive derivative programme to seek to manage the exposure for altered equity markets and interest rates.
For example, Jackson uses derivatives to ameliorate the effect of a sharp rise in interest rates, which would be the most likely cause of a sudden change in policyholder behaviour.
For variable annuity business, the key assumption is the expected long-term level of separate account returns, which for 2014 was 7.4 per cent 2013: 7.4 per cent.
The impact of using this return is reflected in two principal ways, namely: Through the projected expected gross profits which are used to determine the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
This is applied through the use of a mean reversion technique which is described in more detail in note C5.1 b above: and The required level of provision for guaranteed minimum death benefit claims.
C7.4   The IFRS basis results of the UK insurance operations are most sensitive to asset liability matching, mortality and default rate experience and longevity assumptions and the difference between the return on corporate bond and risk-free rate for shareholder-backed annuity business of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the Prudential Assurance Company non-profit sub-fund.
Further details are described below.
The IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for UK insurance operations is sensitive to changes in longevity assumptions affecting the carrying value of liabilities to policyholders for UK shareholder-backed annuity business.
At the total IFRS profit level, the result is particularly sensitive to temporary value movements on assets backing the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business.
With-profits business SAIF Shareholders have no interest in the profits of the ring-fenced fund of SAIF but are entitled to the asset management fees paid on the assets of the fund.
With-profits sub-fund business The shareholder results of the UK with-profits business including non-participating annuity business of the with-profits sub-fund are only sensitive to market risk through the indirect effect of investment performance on declared policyholder bonuses.
The investment assets of PAC with-profits funds are subject to market risk.
Changes in their carrying value, net of related changes to asset-share liabilities of with-profit contracts, affect the level of unallocated surplus of the fund.
Therefore, the level of unallocated surplus is particularly sensitive to the level of investment returns on the portion of the assets that represents surplus.
However, as unallocated surplus is accounted for as a liability under IFRS, movements in its value do not affect shareholders profit and equity.
The shareholder results of the UK with-profits fund correspond to the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses declared on the with-profits business which is currently one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared.
Investment performance is a key driver of bonuses, and hence the shareholders share of the cost of bonuses.
Due to the smoothed basis of bonus declaration, the sensitivity to investment performance in a single year is low relative to movements in the period to period performance.
However, over multiple periods, it is important.
Mortality and other insurance risk are relatively minor factors in the determination of the bonus rates.
Adverse persistency experience can affect the level of profitability from with-profits but in any given one year, the shareholders share of cost of bonus may only be marginally affected.
However, altered persistency trends may affect future expected shareholder transfers.
236 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements C:  C7:  Shareholder-backed annuity business The principal items affecting the IFRS results of the UK shareholder-backed annuity business are mortality experience and assumptions, and credit risk.
The assets covering the liabilities are principally debt securities and other investments that are held to match the expected duration and payment characteristics of the policyholder liabilities.
These liabilities are valued for IFRS reporting purposes by applying discount rates that reflect the market rates of return attaching to the covering assets.
Except to the extent of any asset liability duration mismatch which is reviewed regularly, and exposure to credit risk, the sensitivity of the Groups results to market risk for movements in the carrying value of the liabilities and covering assets is broadly neutral on a net basis.
The main market risk sensitivity for the UK shareholder-backed annuity business arises from interest rate risk on the debt securities which substantially represent shareholders equity.
This shareholders equity comprises the net assets held within the long-term fund of the Company that cover regulatory basis liabilities that are not recognised for IFRS reporting purposes, for example contingency reserves, and shareholder capital held outside the long-term fund.
In summary, profits from shareholder-backed annuity business are most sensitive to: The extent to which the duration of the assets held closely matches the expected duration of the liabilities under the contracts: Actual versus expected default rates on assets held: The difference between long-term rates of return on corporate bonds and risk-free rates: The variance between actual and expected mortality experience: The extent to which changes to the assumed rate of improvements in mortality give rise to changes in the measurement of liabilities: and Changes in renewal expense levels.
A decrease in assumed mortality rates of 1 per cent would decrease pre-tax profits by approximately 94 million 2013: 71 million.
A decrease in credit default assumptions of five basis points would increase pre-tax profits by 190 million 2013: 151 million.
A decrease in renewal expenses excluding asset management expenses of 5 per cent would increase pre-tax profits by 30 million 2013: 27 million.
The effect on profits would be approximately symmetrical for changes in assumptions that are directionally opposite to those explained above.
The net effect on profit after tax and shareholders equity from all the changes in assumptions as described above would be an increase of approximately 101 million 2013: 86 million.
Unit-linked and other business Unit-linked and other business represents a comparatively small proportion of the in-force business of the UK insurance operations.
Due to the matching of policyholder liabilities to attaching asset value movements, the UK unit-linked business is not directly affected by market or credit risk.
The liabilities of the other business are also broadly insensitive to market risk.
Profits from unit-linked and similar contracts primarily arise from the excess of charges to policyholders for management of assets, over expenses incurred.
The former is most sensitive to the net accretion of funds under management as a function of new business and lapse and timing of death.
The accounting impact of the latter is dependent upon the amortisation of acquisition costs in line with the emergence of margins for insurance contracts and amortisation in line with service provision for the investment management component of investment contracts.
By virtue of the design features of most of the contracts which provide low levels of mortality cover, the profits are relatively insensitive to changes in mortality experience.
i Sensitivity to interest rate risk and other market risk By virtue of the fund structure, product features and basis of accounting, the policyholder liabilities of the UK insurance operations are, except annuity business, not generally exposed to interest rate risk.
At 31 December 2014 annuity liabilities accounted for 98 per cent 2013: 98 per cent of UK shareholder-backed business liabilities.
For annuity business, liabilities are exposed to interest rate risk.
However, the net exposure to the Prudential Assurance Company with-profits sub-fund for its non-profit annuity business and shareholders for annuity liabilities of Prudential Retirement Income Limited and the non-profit sub-fund is very substantially ameliorated by virtue of the close matching of assets with appropriate duration.
The level of matching from period to period can vary depending on management actions and economic factors so it is possible for a degree of mis-matching profits or losses to arise.
The close matching by the Group of assets of appropriate duration to annuity liabilities is based on maintaining economic and regulatory capital.
The measurement of liabilities under capital reporting requirements and IFRS is not the same with contingency reserves and some other margins for prudence within the assumptions required under the regulatory solvency basis not included for IFRS reporting purposes.
As a result IFRS equity is higher than regulatory capital and therefore more sensitive to interest rate and credit risk.
The estimated sensitivity of the UK non-linked shareholder-backed business principally annuities business to a movement in interest rates is as follows: 2014 m 2013 m A A An An A A An An decrease decrease increase increase decrease decrease increase increase of2% of1% of1% of2% of2% of1% of1% of2% Carrying value of debt securities and derivatives 11,559 5,063 4,085 7,457 8,602 3,843 3,170 5,827 Policyholder liabilities 9,550 4,250 3,454 6,297 7,525 3,366 2,762 5,054 Related deferred tax effects 402 163 126 232 215 95 82 155 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 1,607 650 505 928 862 382 326 618 Financial statements C: Balance sheet notes Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 237 In addition the shareholder-backed portfolio of UK non-linked insurance operations covering liabilities and shareholders equity includes equity securities and investment properties.
Excluding any second order effects on the measurement of the liabilities for future cash flows to the policyholder, a fall in their value would have given rise to the following effects on pre-tax profit, profit after tax and shareholders equity.
2014 m 2013 m Adecrease Adecrease Adecrease Adecrease of20% of10% of20% of10% Pre-tax profit 347 173 309 154 Related deferred tax effects 75 37 72 36 Net sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity 272 136 237 118 A 10 or 20 per cent increase in their value would have an approximately equal and opposite effect on profit and shareholders equity to the sensitivities shown above.
The market risk sensitivities shown above reflect the impact of temporary market movements, and, therefore the primary effect of such movements would, in the Groups segmental analysis of profits, be included within the short-term fluctuations in investment returns.
C7.5  a Assetmanagement i Sensitivities to foreign exchange risk Consistent with the Groups accounting policies, the profits of Eastspring Investments and US asset management operations are translated at average exchange rates and shareholders equity at the closing rate for the reporting period.
The rates for the functional currencies of most significant operations are shown in note A1.
A 10 per cent increase in the relevant exchange rates would have reduced reported profit before tax attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity, excluding goodwill attributable to Eastspring Investments and US asset management operations, by 9 million 2013: 12 million and 33 million 2013: 29 million respectively.
ii Sensitivities to other financial risks for asset management operations The principal sensitivities to other financial risk of asset management operations are credit risk on the bridging loan portfolio of the Prudential Capital operation and the indirect effect of changes to market values of funds under management.
Due to the nature of the asset management operations there is limited direct sensitivity to movements in interest rates.
Total debt securities held at 31 December 2014 by asset management operations were 2,293 million 2013: 2,045 million, the majority of which are held by the Prudential Capitals operation.
Debt securities held by Prudential Capital are in general variable rate bonds and so market value is limited in sensitivity to interest rate movements and consequently any change in interest rates would not have a material impact on profit or shareholders equity.
The Groups asset management operations do not hold significant investments in property or equities.
b Otheroperations The Group holds certain derivatives that are used to manage foreign currency movements and macroeconomic exposures.
The fair value of these derivatives is sensitive to the combined effect of movements in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation rates.
The possible permutations cover a wide range of scenarios.
For indicative purposes, a reasonably possible range of fair value movements could be plus or minus 150 million.
