European Embedded Value Financial statements EEV basis results Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 303 ii Investment returns included in operating profit For the investment element of the assets covering the net worth of long-term insurance business, investment returns are recognised in operating results at the expected long-term rate of return.
These expected returns are calculated by reference to the asset mix of the portfolio.
For the purpose of calculating the longer-term investment return to be included in the operating result of the PAC with-profits fund of UK operations, where assets backing the liabilities and unallocated surplus are subject to market volatility, asset values at the beginning of the reporting period are adjusted to remove the effects of short-term market movements, as explained in note 16 b iii below.
For the purpose of determining the long-term returns for debt securities of US operations for fixed annuity and other general account business, a risk margin charge is included which reflects the expected long-term rate of default based on the credit quality of the portfolio.
For Jackson, interest-related realised gains and losses are amortised to the operating results over the maturity period of the sold bonds and for equity-related investments, a long-term rate of return is assumed, which reflects the aggregation of end-of-period risk-free rates and equity risk premium.
For US variable annuity separate account business, operating profit includes the unwind of discount on the opening value of in-force adjusted to reflect end-of-period projected rates of return with the excess or deficit of the actual return recognised within non-operating profit, together with the related hedging activity.
For UK annuity business, rebalancing of the asset portfolio backing the liabilities to policyholders may, from time to time, take place to align it more closely with the internal benchmark of credit quality that management applies.
Such rebalancing will result in a change in the projected yield on the asset portfolio and the allowance for default risk.
The net effect of these changes is included in the result for the year.
iii Unwind of discount and other expected returns The unwind of discount and other expected returns is determined by reference to: The value of in-force business at the beginning of the period adjusted for the effect of current period economic and operating assumption changes : and Required capital and surplus assets.
In applying this general approach, the unwind of discount included in operating profit for the with-profits business of UK insurance operations is determined by reference to the opening value of in-force, as adjusted for the effects of short-term investment volatility due to market movements ie, smoothed.
In the summary statement of financial position, and for total profit reporting, asset values and investment returns are not smoothed.
At 31 December 2014, the shareholders interest in the smoothed surplus assets used for this purpose only, were 194 million lower 31 December 2013: 136 million lower than the surplus assets carried in the statement of financial position.
iv Effect of changes in operating assumptions Operating profit includes the effect of changes to operating assumptions on the value of in-force at the end of the period.
For presentational purposes, the effect of change is delineated to show the effect on the opening value of in-force with the experience variance being determined by reference to the end-of-period assumptions.
v Operating experience variances Operating profits include the effect of experience variances on non-economic assumptions, which are calculated with reference to the embedded value assumptions at the end of the reporting period, such as persistency, mortality and morbidity, expenses and other factors.
vi Effect of changes in economic assumptions Movements in the value of in-force business at the beginning of the period caused by changes in economic assumptions, net of the related change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees, are recorded in non-operating results.
17 Assumptions Principal economic assumptions The EEV basis results for the Groups operations have been determined using economic assumptions where the long-term expected rates of return on investments and risk discount rates are set by reference to period end rates of return on government bonds.
Expected returns on equity and property asset classes and corporate bonds are derived by adding a risk premium, based on the Groups long-term view, to the risk-free rate.
The total profit that emerges over the lifetime of an individual contract, as calculated using the embedded value basis, is the same as that calculated under the IFRS basis.
Since the embedded value basis reflects discounted future cash flows, under this methodology the profit emergence is advanced, thus more closely aligning the timing of the recognition of profits with the efforts and risks of current management actions, particularly with regard to business sold during the year.
Notes a The weighted risk discount rates for Asia operations shown above have been determined by weighting each countrys risk discount rates by reference to the post-tax EEV basis new business result and the closing value of in-force business.
The changes in the risk discount rates for individual Asia territories reflect the movements in government bond yields, together with the effects of movements in the allowance for market risk and changes in product mix.
b For Hong Kong, the assumptions shown are for US dollar denominated business.
For other territories, the assumptions are for local currency denominated business.
c The mean equity return assumptions for the most significant equity holdings of the Asia operations were: 31 Dec 2014 % 31 Dec 2013 % Hong Kong 6.2 7.1 Malaysia 10.1 10.1 Singapore 8.3 8.6 ii US operations 31 Dec 2014 % 31 Dec 2013 % Assumed new business spread margins: Fixed annuity business: January to June issues 1.5 1.2 July to December issues 1.5 1.75 Fixed index annuity business: January to June issues 2.0 1.45 July to December issues 2.0 2.0 Institutional business 0.7 0.75 note 16 a viii Allowance for long-term defaults included in projected spread 0.25 0.25 Risk discount rate: Variable annuity: Risk discount rate 6.9 7.6 note 16 a viii Additional allowance for credit risk included in risk discount rate 0.2 0.2 Non-variable annuity: Risk discount rate 3.9 4.8 note 16 a viii Additional allowance for credit risk included in risk discount rate 1.0 1.0 Weighted average total: New business 6.7 7.4 In force 6.2 6.9 US 10-year treasury bond rate at end of year 2.2 3.1 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for US equities 6.2 7.1 Expected long-term rate of inflation 2.8 2.6 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 note 17 v S&P equity return volatility 18.0 19.0 Including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account and fixed index annuity business, the assumed spread margin grades up linearly by 25 basis points to a long-term assumption over five years.
Including the proportion of variable annuity business invested in the general account.
European Embedded Value Financial statements EEV basis results Notes on the EEV basis results Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 305 iii UK insurance operations 31 Dec 2014 % 31 Dec 2013 % note b Shareholder-backed annuity business: Risk discount rate: New business 6.5 6.8 note a In force 6.9 8.3 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rate of return for shareholder-backed annuity business: New business 4.1 4.2 note a In force 3.2 4.3 Other business: Risk discount rate: New business 5.3 6.1 In force 5.9 6.8 Pre-tax expected long-term nominal rates of investment return: UK equities 6.2 7.5 Overseas equities 6.2 to 9.0 7.1 to 9.2 Property 4.9 6.2 15-year gilt rate 2.2 3.5 Corporate bonds 3.8 5.1 Expected long-term rate of inflation 3.0 3.4 Equity risk premium 4.0 4.0 Notes a For shareholder-backed annuity business, the movements in the pre-tax long-term nominal rates of return and the risk discount rates for in-force business mainly reflect the effect of changes in asset yields.
b Credit spread treatment: for Prudential Retirement Income Limited, which has approximately 90 per cent of UK shareholder-backed annuity business, the credit assumptions used in the underlying MCEV calculation see note 16 a viii and the residual liquidity premium element of the bond spread over swap rates are as follows: Individual annuity Total in-force new business bps business bps 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Bond spread over swap rates 108 117 143 133 Total credit risk allowance 29 37 58 62 Liquidity premium 79 80 85 71 The new business liquidity premium is based on the weighted average of the point-of-sale liquidity premia.
The overall allowance for credit risk is prudent by comparison with historic rates of default and would be sufficient to withstand a wide range of extreme credit events over the expected lifetime of the annuity business.
Stochastic assumptions Details are given below of the key characteristics of the models used to determine the time value of the financial options and guarantees as referred to in note 16 a iv.
iv Asia operations The stochastic cost of guarantees is primarily of significance for the Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan operations: The principal asset classes are government and corporate bonds: The asset return models are similar to the models as described for UK insurance operations below: and The volatility of equity returns ranges from 18 per cent to 35 per cent in both years, and the volatility of government bond yields ranges from 0.9 per cent to 2.3 per cent in both years.
v US operations Jackson Interest rates and equity returns are projected using a log-normal generator reflecting historical market data: Corporate bond returns are based on Treasury yields plus a spread that reflects current market conditions: and The volatility of equity returns ranges from 18 per cent to 27 per cent 2013: 19 per cent to 32 per cent and the standard deviation of interest rates ranges from 2.2 per cent to 2.5 per cent for both years.
306 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes on the EEV basis results Notes on the EEV basis results continued 17 Assumptions continued vi UK insurance operations Interest rates are projected using a stochastic interest rate model calibrated to the current market yields: Equity returns are assumed to follow a log-normal distribution: The corporate bond return is calculated based on a risk-free bond return plus a mean-reverting spread: Property returns are also modelled on a risk-free bond return plus a risk premium with a stochastic process reflecting total property returns: and The standard deviation of equities and property ranges from 15 per cent to 20 per cent for both years.
Operating assumptions Best estimate assumptions Best estimate assumptions are used for the cash flow projections, where best estimate is defined as the mean of the distribution of future possible outcomes.
The assumptions are reviewed actively and changes are made when evidence exists that material changes in future experience are reasonably certain.
Assumptions required in the calculation of the value of options and guarantees, for example relating to volatilities and correlations, or dynamic algorithms linking liabilities to assets, have been set equal to the best estimates and, wherever material and practical, reflect any dynamic relationships between the assumptions and the stochastic variables.
Demographic assumptions Persistency, mortality and morbidity assumptions are based on an analysis of recent experience, but also reflect expected future experience.
Where relevant, when calculating the time value of financial options and guarantees, policyholder withdrawal rates vary in line with the emerging investment conditions according to managements expectations.
Expense assumptions Expense levels, including those of service companies that support the Groups long-term business operations, are based on internal expense analysis investigations and are appropriately allocated to acquisition of new business and renewal of in-force business.
Exceptional expenses are identified and reported separately.
For mature business, it is Prudentials policy not to take credit for future cost-reduction programmes until the savings have been delivered.
For businesses which are currently sub-scale China, Malaysia Takaful and Taiwan, and India where the business model is being adapted as the industry continues to adjust to regulatory changes, expense overruns are reported where these are expected to be short-lived.
For Asia operations, the expenses comprise costs borne directly and recharged costs from the Asia regional head office, that are attributable to covered business.
The assumed future expenses for these operations also include projections of these future recharges.
Development expenses are charged as incurred.
Corporate expenditure, which is included in other income and expenditure, comprises: Expenditure for Group head office, to the extent not allocated to the PAC with-profits funds, together with Solvency II implementation and restructuring costs, which are charged to the EEV basis results as incurred: and Expenditure of the Asia regional head office that is not allocated to the covered business or asset management operations which is charged as incurred.
These costs are primarily for corporate-related activities and are included within corporate expenditure.
Tax rates The assumed long-term effective tax rates for operations reflect the incidence of taxable profits and losses in the projected cash flows as explained in note 16 a x.
The local standard corporate tax rates applicable for the most significant operations for 2014 and 2013, are as follows: Standard corporate tax rates % Asia operations: Hong Kong 16.5 Indonesia 25.0 Malaysia 2015: 25.0: From 2016: 24.0 Singapore 17.0 US operations 35.0 UK operations 20.0 16.5 per cent on 5 per cent of premium income.
