Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 131 A3: Accountingpolicies A3.1  This note provides detailed accounting policies adopted by the Group to prepare the consolidated financial statements.
These accounting policies are applied consistently for all years presented and normally are not subject to changes unless new accounting standards, interpretations or amendments are introduced by the IASB.
a ,  Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to those referenced in the table below: Accounting  policyreference Classification of insurance and investment contracts A3.1 c Measurement of policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits fund A3.1 d Measurement and presentation of derivatives and debt securities of US insurance operations A3.1 j v Presentation of results before tax A3.1 k Segmental analysis of results and earnings distributable to shareholders A3.1 m The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning and the fair value of assets.
The table below sets out items that require the Group to make critical estimates and judgements in applying the relevant accounting policy: Accounting  policyreference Classification of insurance and investment contracts A3.1 c Measurement of policyholder liabilities A3.1 d Measurement of deferred acquisition costs A3.1 f Determination of fair value of financial investments A3.1 j ii Determining impairment relating to financial assets A3.1 j iii b Basisofconsolidation The Group consolidates those investees it is deemed to control.
The Group has control over an investee if all three of the following are met: 1 it has power over an investee: 2 it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and 3 it has ability to use its power over the investee to affect its own returns.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those investees which the Group controls.
The vast majority of the Groups subsidiaries are corporate entities where the Group holds the majority of voting rights and are consolidated.
The consolidation of other vehicles held by the Group is discussed below: The Groups insurance operations invest in a number of limited partnerships, either directly or through unit trusts, through a mix of capital and loans.
These limited partnerships are managed by general partners, in which the Group holds equity.
Such interest in general partners and limited partnerships provide the Group with voting and similar rights to participate in the governance framework of the relevant activities in which limited partnerships are engaged in.
Accounting for the limited partnerships as subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on the terms of each partnership agreement and the shareholdings in the general partners.
In the context of direct investment in limited partnerships, the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in which, in substance, the Group controls and consequently consolidates a limited partnership: The Group has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the limited partnership, ie activities that significantly affect the generation of economic returns from the limited partnerships operation: The Group has the power to obtain the significant benefits of the activities of the limited partnerships.
Generally, it is presumed that the Group has significant benefits if its participation in the limited partnership is greater than 20 per cent: and The Groups current ability to join together with other partners to direct the activities of the partnership.
The Group performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship between the Group and a limited partnership.
Where the Group is deemed to control limited partnership, it is treated as a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities are consolidated.
Where the Group holds a minority share in a limited partnership, with no control over their associated general partners, the investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The limited partnerships consolidated by the Group include Qualifying Partnerships as defined under the UK Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 the Partnerships Act.
Certain of these limited partnerships have taken advantage of the exemption under regulation 7 of the Partnerships Act from the financial statements requirements under regulations 4 to 6, on the basis that these limited partnerships are dealt with on a consolidated basis in these financial statements.
The Group does not have subsidiaries with a material percentage of non-controlling interests.
132 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  ii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are joint arrangements arising from a contractual agreement whereby the Group and other investors have joint control of the net assets of the arrangement.
In a number of these arrangements, the Groups share of the underlying net assets may be less than 50 per cent but the terms of the relevant agreement make it clear that control is jointly exercised between the Group and the third party.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but it does not control.
Generally it is presumed that the Group has significant influence if it holds between 20 per cent and 50 per cent voting rights of the entity.
With the exception of those referred to below, the Group accounts for its investments in joint ventures and associates by using the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of profit or loss of its joint ventures and associates is recognised in the income statement and its share of movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The equity method of accounting does not apply to investments in associates and joint ventures held by the Groups insurance or investment funds including venture capital business or mutual funds or unit trusts, which as allowed by IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, are carried at fair value through profit or loss.
iii Structured entities Structured entities are those which have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the entity such as when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
In addition to the entities discussed above in A3.1b i, the Group, as part of its business strategy, invests in structured entities such as Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, Unit Trusts UTs, variable interest entities, investment vehicles within separate accounts offered through variable annuities, collateral debt obligations, mortgage-backed securities, and similar asset-backed securities.
Open-ended investment companies and unit trusts The Group invests in OEICs and UTs, which invest mainly in equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties.
The Groups percentage ownership in these entities can fluctuate on a daily basis according to the participation of the Group and other investors in them.
For these entities, the following circumstances may indicate, in substance, the Group has power over an entity: The entity is managed by the Groups asset manager and the Group holds a significant investment in the entity: and Where the entity is managed by asset managers outside the Group, Prudential has existing rights that gives it the ability to direct the current activities of the entity.
In assessing the Groups ability to direct an entity, the Group considers its ability relative to other investors.
The Group has a limited number of OEICs and UTs where it considers it has such ability.
For the entity managed by asset managers outside the Group with no current ability to direct its activities, the Group is deemed to have no power over such an entity.
For those entities managed by the Groups asset managers, it is generally presumed that the Group is exposed to, or has rights, to variable returns from an entity and has ability to use its power to affect its own returns where Groups holding is greater than 50 per cent and is deemed to have no significant influence over an entity for participation less than 20 per cent.
For holdings between 20 per cent and 50 per cent, the Group performs an assessment of power and associated control over an entity on a case by case basis.
For these entities, the following circumstances may indicate that the Group controls an entity: The Group has power over the relevant activities of the entity: and The exposure, or rights, to variable returns including administrative and performance fee earned by the Groups asset manager from the entity is higher than the Groups interest.
Where the Group is deemed to control these entities they are treated as a subsidiary and are consolidated, with the interests of investors other than the Group being classified as liabilities and appear as net asset value attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
Where the Group does not control these entities as it is deemed to be acting as an agent and they do not meet the definition of associates, they are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the Groups asset manager set up the OEICs and UTs as part of asset management operations, the Groups interest is limited to the administration fees charged to manage the assets of such entities.
With no participation in these entities, the Group does not retain risks associated with OEICs and UTs.
The Group generates returns and retains the ownership risks in investment vehicles commensurate to its participation and does not have any further exposure to the residual risks of the OEICs and UTs.
For these OEICs and UTs, the Group is not deemed to control the entities but to be acting as an agent.
Jacksons separate account assets Jackson offers variable contracts that invest contract holders premiums, at the contract holders direction, in investment vehicles Separate Accounts that invest in equity, fixed income, bonds and money market mutual funds.
The contract holder retains the underlying returns and the ownership risks related to the separate accounts and its underlying investments.
The shareholders economic interest in separate accounts is limited to the administrative fees charged.
The separate accounts are set up as separate regulated entities governed by a Board of Governors or trustees for which the majority of the members are independent of Jackson or any affiliated entity.
The independent members represent contract holders interest and are responsible for any decision making that impacts contract holders interest and governs the operational activities of the entities advisers, including asset managers managing the investment vehicles.
Accordingly, the Group does not control these vehicles.
These investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 133 Other structured entities The Group holds investments in mortgage-backed securities, collateral debt obligations and similar asset-backed securities that are actively traded in a liquid market.
The Group is not the sponsor of the vehicles in which it holds investments and has no administrative rights over the vehicles activities.
The Group generates returns and retains the ownership risks commensurate to its holding and its exposure to the investments.
Accordingly the Group does not have power over the relevant activities of such vehicles and all are carried at fair value through profit or loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The table below provides aggregate carrying amounts of the investments in unconsolidated structured entities reported in the Groups statement of financial position: 2014 m 2013 m Separate Other Separate Other account structured account structured OEICs UTs assets entities OEICs UTs assets entities  Equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts 12,690 81,741 13,175 65,681 Debt securities 12,715 13,190 Total 12,690 81,741 12,715 13,175 65,681 13,190 The Group generates returns and retains the ownership risks in these investments commensurate to its participation and does not have any further exposure to the residual risks or losses of the investments or the vehicles in which it holds investments.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group does not have an agreement, contractual or otherwise, or intention to provide financial support to structured entities that could expose the Group to a loss.
c  IFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be classified as either insurance contracts or investment contracts depending on the level of insurance risk transferred.
Insurance risk is a pre-existing risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the contract holder to the contract issuer.
If significant insurance risk is transferred to the Group then it is classified as an insurance contract.
Contracts that transfer financial risk to the Group, but not significant insurance risk, are termed investment contracts.
Furthermore, some contracts, both insurance and investment, contain discretionary participating features representing the contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits: a That are likely to be a significant portion of the total contract benefits: b Whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of the insurer: and c That are contractually based on asset or fund performance, as discussed in IFRS 4.
  Businessunits   Asia With-profits contracts Minor amounts for a number of small Non-participating term contracts categories of business Whole life contracts Unit-linked policies Accident and health policies US Variable annuity contracts Guaranteed investment contracts GICs Fixed annuity contracts Minor amounts of annuity certain contracts Life insurance contracts UK With-profits contracts Certain unit-linked savings and similar Bulk and individual annuity business contracts Non-participating term contracts d  The measurement basis of policyholder liabilities is dependent upon the classification of the contracts under IFRS 4 described in note A3.1 c above.
IFRS 4 permits the continued usage of previously applied Generally Accepted Accounting Practices GAAP for insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features.
Accordingly, except for UK regulated with-profits funds as discussed below, the modified statutory basis of reporting as set in the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by Association of British Insurers ABI was adopted by the Group on first time adoption of IFRS in 2005.
For investment contracts that do not contain discretionary participating features, IAS 39 and, where the contract includes an investment management element, IAS 18 Revenue, apply measurement principles to assets and liabilities attaching to the contract.
For with-profits funds, as the shareholders participation in the cost of bonuses arises only on distribution, the Group has elected to account for the unallocated surplus of UK regulated with-profits funds as a liability with no allocation to equity.
The policy of measuring contract liabilities at business unit level is noted below.
Additional details are discussed in note C4.2.
134 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  i Insurance contracts Asia insurance operations The policyholder liabilities for businesses in Asia are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP adjusted to comply, where necessary, with the modified statutory basis.
Refinements to the local reserving methodology are generally treated as changes in estimates, dependent on their nature.
For the operations in India, Japan and Taiwan the local GAAP is not appropriate as a starting point in the context of the modified statutory basis, and, instead, the accounting for insurance contracts is based on US GAAP.
For these operations the business written is primarily non-participating linked and participating business.
The future policyholder benefit provisions for non-participating linked business are determined using the net level premium method, with an allowance for surrenders, maintenance and claim expenses.
Rates of interest used in establishing the policyholder benefit provisions vary by operation depending on the circumstances attaching to each block of business.
Where appropriate, liabilities for participating business for these operations include provisions for the policyholders interest in investment gains and other surpluses that have yet to be declared as bonuses.
While the basis of valuation of liabilities in this business is in accordance with the requirements of the ABI SORP, it may differ from that determined on the modified statutory basis for UK operations with the same features.
US insurance operations In accordance with the modified statutory basis, the policyholder liabilities for Jacksons conventional protection-type policies are determined under US GAAP principles with locked in assumptions for mortality, interest, policy lapses and expenses along with provisions for adverse deviations.
For non-conventional protection-type policies, the policyholder liabilities includes the policyholder account balance.
Acquisition costs are accounted for as explained in note A3.1 f below.
UK insurance operations The UK regulated with-profits funds are accounted for by the voluntary application of the UK accounting standard FRS 27 Life Assurance that requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis liabilities.
The realistic basis liabilities are measured by reference to the PRAs Peak 2 basis of reporting.
This Peak 2 basis requires the value of liabilities to be calculated as: A with-profits benefits reserve: plus Future policy related liabilities: plus The realistic current liabilities of the fund.
The with-profits benefits reserve is primarily based on the retrospective calculation of accumulated asset shares but is adjusted to reflect future policyholder benefits and other outgoings.
Asset shares broadly reflect the policyholders share of the with-profits fund assets attributable to their policies.
The future policy related liabilities must include a market consistent valuation of costs of guarantees, options and smoothing, less any related charges, and this amount is determined using either a stochastic approach, hedging costs or a series of deterministic projections with attributed probabilities.
The Peak 2 basis realistic liabilities for with-profits business included in the PRA regulatory returns include the element for the shareholders share of the future cost of bonuses consistent with the contract asset shares.
For accounting purposes under FRS 27, this latter item is not shown as part of contract liabilities.
This is because, consistent with the current basis of financial reporting, shareholder transfers are recognised only on declaration.
Instead the shareholders share of future costs of bonuses is included within the liabilities for unallocated surplus.
Other UK insurance contracts that contain significant insurance risk include unit-linked, annuity and other non-profit business.
For the purposes of local regulations, segregated accounts are established for linked business for which policyholder benefits are wholly or partly determined by reference to specific investments or to an investment-related index.
The interest rates used in establishing policyholder benefit provisions for pension annuities in the course of payment are adjusted each year.
Mortality rates used in establishing policyholder benefits are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect actual experience.
ii Investment contracts with discretionary participation features For investment contracts with discretionary participation features, the accounting basis is consistent with the accounting for similar with-profits insurance contracts.
Other investment contracts are accounted for on a basis that reflects the hybrid nature of the arrangements, where part is accounted for as a financial instrument under IAS 39 and the investment management service component is accounted for under IAS 18.
For those investment contracts in the US with fixed and guaranteed terms, the Group uses the amortised cost model to measure the liability.
Those investment contracts without fixed and guaranteed terms are designated as fair value through profit or loss because the resulting liabilities are managed and their performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
Where the contract includes a surrender option its carrying value is subject to a minimum carrying value equal to its surrender value.
iii Investment contracts without discretionary participation features The measurement of investment contracts without discretionary participation features is carried out in accordance with IAS 39 to reflect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and taken directly to the statement of financial position as movements in the financial liability balance.
Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 135 Under IFRS, investment contracts excluding those with discretionary participation features accounted for as financial liabilities in accordance with IAS 39 which also offer investment management services, require the application of IAS 18 for the revenue attached to these services.
Incremental, directly attributable acquisition costs relating to the investment management element of these contracts are capitalised and amortised in line with the related revenue.
If the contracts involve up-front charges, this income is also deferred and amortised through the income statement in line with contractual service provision.
iv Unallocated surplus of with-profits funds Unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups with-profits funds that have yet to be appropriated between policyholders and shareholders.
As allowed under IFRS 4, the Group has opted to continue to record unallocated surplus of with-profits funds wholly as a liability with no allocation to equity.
The annual excess shortfall of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders, is transferred to from the unallocated surplus each year through a charge credit to the income statement.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the with-profits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
The balance of the unallocated surplus is determined after full provision for deferred tax on unrealised appreciation on investments.
e Reinsurance The measurement of reinsurance assets is consistent with the measurement of the underlying direct insurance contracts.
The treatment of any gains or losses arising on the purchase of reinsurance contracts is dependent on the underlying accounting basis of the entity concerned.
f  Except for acquisition costs of with-profits contracts of the UK regulated with-profits funds, which are accounted for under the realistic PRA regime, costs of acquiring new insurance business are accounted for in a way that is consistent with the principles of the ABI SORP with deferral and amortisation against margins in future revenues on the related insurance policies.
Costs of acquiring new insurance business, principally commissions, marketing and advertising and certain other costs associated with policy insurance and underwriting that are not reimbursed by policy charges, are specifically identified and capitalised as part of deferred acquisition costs.
In general, this deferral is presentationally shown by an explicit carrying value in the balance sheet.
However, in some Asia operations the deferral is implicit through the reserving methodology.
The recoverability of the explicitly and implicitly deferred acquisition costs is measured and are deemed impaired if the projected margins are less than the carrying value.
To the extent that the future margins differ from those anticipated, then an adjustment to the carrying value will be necessary.
The deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs is of most relevance to the Groups results for Asia and US insurance operations.
The deferred acquisition costs for US and some Asia operations is determined with reference to US GAAP principles.
Asia insurance operations For those territories applying US GAAP to insurance assets and liabilities, as permitted by the ABI SORP, principles similar to those set out in the US insurance operations paragraph below are applied to the deferral and amortisation of acquisition costs.
For other territories in Asia, the general principles of the ABI SORP are applied with, as described above, deferral of acquisition costs being either explicit or implicit through the reserving basis.
US insurance operations Under IFRS 4, the Group applies grandfathered US GAAP for measuring the insurance assets and liabilities of US insurance operations.
The Group adopted FAS ASU 2010-26 on Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts from 1 January 2012 and capitalises only those incremental costs directly relating to successfully acquiring a contract.
For term business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected premiums.
For annuity and interest-sensitive life business, acquisition costs are deferred and amortised in line with expected gross profits on the relevant contracts.
For interest-sensitive business, the key assumption is the long-term spread between the earned rate on investments and the rate credited to policyholders, which is based on an annual spread analysis.
In addition, expected gross profits depend on mortality assumptions, assumed unit costs and terminations other than deaths including the related charges, all of which are based on a combination of Jacksons actual industry experience and future expectations.
A detailed analysis of actual mortality, lapse and expenses experience is performed using internally developed experience studies.
For US variable annuity business, a key assumption is the investment return from the separate accounts, which is determined using a mean reversion methodology.
Under the mean reversion methodology, projected returns over the next five years are flexed subject to capping so that, combined with the actual rates of return for the current and the previous two years is maintained.
The projected rates of return are capped at no more than 15 per cent for each of the next five years.
These returns affect the level of future expected profits through their effects on the fee income with consequential impact on the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs.
The level of acquisition costs carried in the statement of financial position is also sensitive to unrealised valuation movements on debt securities held to back the liabilities and solvency capital.
Further details are discussed in note C5.1 b.
As permitted by IFRS 4, Jackson uses shadow accounting to make adjustments to the liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs which are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Jackson accounts for the majority of its investment portfolio on an available-for-sale basis whereby unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
To the extent that recognition of unrealised gains or losses on available-for-sale securities causes adjustments to the carrying value and amortisation patterns of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income, these adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income to be consistent with the treatment of the gains or losses on the securities.
More precisely, shadow deferred acquisition costs adjustments reflect the change in deferred acquisition costs that would have arisen if the assets held in the statement of financial position had been sold, crystallising unrealised gains or losses, and the proceeds reinvested at the yields currently available in the market.
136 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  UK insurance operations For UK regulated with-profits funds where the realistic FSA regime is applied, the basis of setting liabilities is such that it would be inappropriate for acquisition costs to be deferred, therefore these costs are expensed as incurred.
The majority of the UK shareholderbacked business is individual and group annuity business where the incidence of acquisition costs is negligible.
g  The Group performs adequacy testing on its insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amounts net of related deferred acquisition costs and, where relevant, present value of acquired in-force business is sufficient to cover current estimates of future cash flows.
Any deficiency is immediately charged to the income statement.
h Earnedpremiums,  Premium and annuity considerations for conventional with-profits policies and other protection type insurance policies are recognised as revenue when due.
Premiums and annuity considerations for linked policies, unitised with-profits and other investment type policies are recognised as revenue when received or, in the case of unitised or unit-linked policies, when units are issued.
These amounts exclude premium taxes and similar duties where Prudential collects and settles taxes borne by the customer.
Policy fees charged on linked and unitised with-profits policies for mortality, asset management and policy administration are recognised as revenue when related services are provided.
Claims paid include maturities, annuities, surrenders and deaths.
Maturity claims are recorded as charges on the policy maturity date.
Annuity claims are recorded when each annuity instalment becomes due for payment.
Surrenders are charged to the income statement when paid and death claims are recorded when notified.
i Investmentreturn Investment return included in the income statement principally comprises interest income, dividends, investment appreciation depreciation realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments designated as fair value through profit or loss, and realised gains and losses including impairment losses on Jacksons debt securities designated as available-for-sale.
Movements in unrealised appreciation depreciation of Jacksons debt securities designated as available-for-sale are recorded in other comprehensive income.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on investments.
Dividends on equity securities are recognised on the ex-dividend date and rental income is recognised on an accrual basis.
j  i Investment classification The Group holds financial investments in accordance with IAS 39, whereby subject to specific criteria, financial instruments are required to be accounted for under one of the following categories: Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss this comprises assets and liabilities designated by management as fair value through profit or loss on inception and derivatives that are held for trading.
These investments are measured at fair value with all changes thereon being recognised in investment return in the income statement: Financial investments on an available-for-sale basis this comprises assets that are designated by management as available-for-sale and or do not fall into any of the other categories.
These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus attributable transaction costs.
For available-for-sale debt securities, the difference between their cost and par value is amortised to the income statement using the effective interest rate.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset: Available-for-sale assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Interest income is recognised on an effective interest basis in the income statement.
Except for foreign exchange gains and losses on debt securities, not in functional currency, which are included in the income statement, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Upon disposal or impairment, accumulated unrealised gains and losses are transferred from other comprehensive income to the income statement as realised gains or losses: and Loans and receivables except for those designated as at fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale, these instruments comprise non-quoted investments that have fixed or determinable payments.
These instruments include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits, loans to policyholders and other unsecured loans and receivables.
These investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, these instruments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The Group uses the trade date method to account for regular purchases and sales of financial assets.
ii Use of fair value The Group uses current bid prices to value its investments with quoted prices.
Actively traded investments without quoted prices are valued using prices provided by third parties as described further in note C3.2.
If there is no active established market for an investment, the Group applies an appropriate valuation technique such as a discounted cash flow technique.
Determining the fair value of financial investments when the markets are not active The Group holds certain financial investments for which the markets are not active.
These can include financial investments which are not quoted on active markets and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions eg market illiquidity.
When the markets are not active, there is generally no or limited observable market data to account for financial investments at fair value.
The determination of whether an active market exists for a financial investment requires managements judgement.
Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 137 If the market for a financial investment of the Group is not active, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group establishes fair value for these financial investments by using quotations from independent third parties, such as brokers or pricing services, or by using internally developed pricing models.
Priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing and or the valuation technique is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement which reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The valuation techniques include the use of recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option-adjusted spread models and, if applicable, enterprise valuation and may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as credit risk and interest rates.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these financial investments.
Financial investments measured at fair value are classified into a three level hierarchy as described in note C3.2 b. iii Determining impairments relation to financial assets Available-for-sale securities The majority of Jacksons debt securities portfolio are accounted for on an available-for-sale basis.
The consideration of evidence of impairment requires managements judgement.
In making this determination the factors considered include, for example: Determiningfactors  Whether the decline of the A substantial decline in fair value might be indicative of a credit loss event that would lead to a financial investments fair value measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows.
is substantial The impact of the duration of The duration of a security to maturity helps to inform whether assessments of estimated future cash the security on the calculation of flows that are higher than market value are reasonable.
the revised estimated cash flows The duration and extent to This factor provides an indication of how the contractual cash flows and effective interest rate of which the amortised cost a financial asset compares with the implicit market estimate of cash flows and the risk attaching to exceeds fair value a fair value measurement.
The length of time for which that level of difference has been in place may also provide further evidence as to whether the market assessment implies an impairment loss has arisen.
The financial condition and These factors and other observable conditions may indicate that an investment is impaired.
prospects of the issuer If a loss event that will have a detrimental effect on cash flows is identified, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The loss recognised is determined as the difference between the book cost and the fair value of the relevant impaired securities.
This loss comprises the effect of the expected loss of contractual cash flows and any additional market-price-driven temporary reductions in values.
For Jacksons residential mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, all of which are classified as available-for-sale, the model used to analyse cash flows, begins with the current delinquency experience of the underlying collateral pool for the structure, by applying assumptions about how much of the currently delinquent loans will eventually default, and multiplying this by an assumed loss severity.
Additional factors are applied to anticipate ageing effects.
After applying a cash flow simulation an indication is obtained as to whether or not the security has suffered, or is anticipated to suffer, contractual principal or interest payment shortfalls.
If a shortfall applies an impairment charge is recorded.
The difference between the fair value and book cost for unimpaired securities designated as available-for-sale is accounted for as unrealised gains or losses, with the movements in the accounting period being included in other comprehensive income.
The Groups review of fair value involves several criteria, including economic conditions, credit loss experience, other issuer-specific developments and future cash flows.
These assessments are based on the best available information at the time.
Factors such as market liquidity, the widening of bid ask spreads and a change in cash flow assumptions can contribute to future price volatility.
If actual experience differs negatively from the assumptions and other considerations used in the consolidated financial statements, unrealised losses currently in equity may be recognised in the income statement in future periods.
Additional details on the impairments of the available-for-sale securities of Jackson are described in note C3.5 d. Assets held at amortised cost Financial assets classified as loans and receivables under IAS 39 are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The loans and receivables include loans collateralised by mortgages, deposits and loans to policyholders.
In estimating future cash flows, the Group looks at the expected cash flows of the assets and applies historical loss experience of assets with similar credit risks that has been adjusted for conditions in the historical loss experience which no longer exist, or for conditions that are expected to arise.
The estimated future cash flows are discounted using the financial assets original or variable effective interest rate and exclude credit losses that have not yet been incurred.
The risks inherent in reviewing the impairment of any investment include: the risk that market results may differ from expectations: facts and circumstances may change in the future and differ from estimates and assumptions: or the Group may later decide to sell the asset as a result of changed circumstances.
138 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  Certain mortgage loans of the UK insurance operations and, consequent upon the purchase of REALIC in 2012 by Jackson, policy loans held to back funds withheld under reinsurance arrangements have been designated at fair value through profit or loss, as these loan portfolios are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis.
Assets carried at cost or amortised cost are subject to impairment testing where appropriate under IFRS requirements.
Reversal of impairment loss If, in subsequent periods, an impaired debt security held on an available-for-sale basis or an impaired loan or receivable recovers in value in part or in full, and this recovery can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment, then the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through the income statement in part or in full.
iv Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce or manage investment, interest rate and currency exposures, to facilitate efficient portfolio management and for investment purposes.
The Group may designate certain derivatives as hedges.
For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of any change in fair value of derivatives or other financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recorded in the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in other comprehensive income while the foreign operation is held.
For fair value hedges, movements in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the income statement.
The Group does not regularly seek to apply fair value or cash flow hedging treatment under IAS 39.
The exceptions, where hedge accounting has been applied in 2014 and 2013, are summarised in note C3.5 b.
All derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are carried at fair value with movements in fair value being recorded in the income statement.
The primary areas of the Groups continuing operations where derivative instruments are held are the UK with-profits funds and annuity business, and Jackson.
For UK with-profits funds the derivative programme derivatives are used for the purposes of efficient portfolio management or reduction in investment risk.
For shareholder-backed UK annuity business the derivatives are held to contribute to the matching as far as practical, of asset returns and duration with those of liabilities to policyholders.
The carrying value of these liabilities is sensitive to the return on the matching financial assets including derivatives held.
For Jackson, an extensive derivative programme is maintained.
Value movements on the derivatives held can be very significant in their effect on shareholder results.
Further details on this aspect of the Groups financial reporting are described in note B1.2.
v Measurement and presentation of derivatives and debt securities of US insurance operations The policies for these items are significant factors in contributing to the volatility of the income statement result and shareholders equity.
Under IAS 39, derivatives are required to be carried at fair value.
Unless net investment hedge accounting is applied, value movements on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
For derivative instruments of Jackson that are entered into to mitigate economic exposures, the Group has considered whether it is appropriate to undertake the necessary operational changes to qualify for hedge accounting so as to achieve matching of value movements in hedging instruments and hedged items in the performance statements.
In reaching the decision a number of factors were particularly relevant.
These were: IAS 39 hedging criteria have been designed primarily in the context of hedging and hedging instruments that are assessable as financial instruments that are either stand-alone or separable from host contracts, rather than, for example, duration characteristics of insurance contracts: The high hurdle levels under IAS 39 of ensuring hedge effectiveness at the level of individual hedge transactions: The difficulties in applying the macro hedge provisions under IAS 39 which are more suited to banking arrangements to Jacksons derivative book: The complexity of asset and liability matching of US life insurers such as those with Jacksons product range: and finally Whether it is possible or desirable, without an unacceptable level of costs and constraint on commercial activity, to achieve the accounting hedge effectiveness required under IAS 39.
Taking account of these considerations, the Group has decided that, except for occasional circumstances, it is not appropriate to seek to achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39.
As a result of this decision, the total income statement results are more volatile as the movements in the value of Jacksons derivatives are reflected within it.
This volatility is reflected in the level of short-term fluctuations in investment returns, as shown in notes B1.1 and B1.2.
Under IAS 39, unless carried at amortised cost subject to impairment provisions where appropriate under the held-to-maturity category, debt securities are also carried at fair value.
The Group has chosen not to classify any financial assets as held-to-maturity.
Debt securities of Jackson are designated as available-for-sale with value movements, unless impaired, being recorded as movements within other comprehensive income.
Impairments are recorded in the income statement.
vi Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are present in host contracts issued by various Group companies, in particular Jackson.
They are embedded within other non-derivative host financial instruments and insurance contracts to create hybrid instruments.
Embedded derivatives meeting the definition of an insurance contract are accounted for under IFRS 4.
Where economic characteristics and risks of the Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 139 embedded derivatives are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host instrument, and where the hybrid instrument is not measured at fair value with the changes in fair value recognised in the income statement, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and carried at fair value as a derivative in accordance with IAS 39.
For Jacksons not for life Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit and Fixed Index Annuity reserves the determination of fair value requires assumptions regarding future mix of Separate Account assets, equity volatility levels, and policyholder behaviour.
In addition, the Group applies the option under IFRS 4 to not separate and fair value surrender options embedded in host contracts and with-profits investment contracts whose strike price is either a fixed amount or a fixed amount plus interest.
Further details on the valuation basis for embedded derivatives attaching to Jacksons life assurance contracts are provided in note C4.2.
vii Securities lending including repurchase agreements The Group is party to various securities lending agreements under which securities are loaned to third parties on a short-term basis.
The loaned securities are not derecognised: rather, they continue to be recognised within the appropriate investment classification.
The Groups policy is that collateral in excess of 100 per cent of the fair value of securities loaned is required from all securities borrowers and typically consists of cash, debt securities, equity securities or letters of credit.
In cases where the Group takes possession of the collateral under its securities lending programme, the collateral, and corresponding obligation to return such collateral, are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
viii Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Groups policy is to derecognise financial assets when it is deemed that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or has expired.
ix Financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss Consistent with the Groups risk management and investment strategy and the nature of the products concerned, the Group has designated under IAS 39 classification certain financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss as these instruments are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis.
These instruments include liabilities related to consolidated collateralised debt obligations and net assets attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds.
k  The total tax charge for the Group reflects tax that, in addition to relating to shareholders profits, is also attributable to policyholders and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds and unit-linked policies.
This is explained in more detail in note B5.
Reported profit before the total tax charge is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders.
Accordingly, in order to provide a measure of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders the Group has chosen to adopt an income statement presentation of the tax charge and pre-tax results that distinguishes between policyholder and shareholder components.
l Segments Under IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee which is the Groups chief operating decision maker.
The operating segments identified by the Group reflect the Groups organisational structure, which is by both geography Asia, US and UK and by product line insurance operations and asset management.
The products of the insurance operations contain both significant and insignificant levels of insurance risk.
The products are managed together and there is no distinction between these two categories other than for accounting purposes.
This segment also includes the commission earned on general insurance business and investment subsidiaries held to support the Groups insurance operations.
Asset management comprises both internal and third-party asset management services, inclusive of portfolio and mutual fund management, where the Group acts as an adviser, and broker-dealer activities.
The nature of the products and the managing of the business differ from the risks inherent in the insurance operations segments, and the regulatory environment of the asset management industry differs from that of the insurance operations segments.
Further information on the Groups operating segments is provided in note B1.3.
m  The Group uses operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as the segmental measure of its results.
The basis of calculation is disclosed in note B1.3.
For shareholder-backed business, with the exception of debt securities held by Jackson and assets classified as loans and receivables at amortised cost, all financial investments and investment property are designated as assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The short-term fluctuations affect the result for the year and the Group provides additional analysis of results before and after short-term fluctuations in investment returns, together with other items that are of a short-term, volatile or one-off nature.
Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on such assets held by with-profits funds, do not affect directly reported shareholder results.
This is because i the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds is accounted for as a liability and ii excess or deficits of income and expenditure of the funds over the required surplus for distribution are transferred to or from unallocated surplus.
n Borrowings Although initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, borrowings, excluding liabilities of consolidated collateralised debt obligations, are subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds net of related issue costs is amortised through the income statement to the date of maturity or for hybrid debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
140 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  o Investmentproperties Investments in leasehold and freehold properties not for occupation by the Group, including properties under development for future use as investment properties, are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value included in the income statement.
Properties are valued annually either by the Groups qualified surveyors or by taking into consideration the advice of professional external valuers using the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors valuation standards.
Each property is externally valued at least once every three years.
Leases of investment property where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases leasehold property.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
p Pensionschemes For the Groups defined benefit schemes, if the present value of the defined benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the scheme assets, then a liability is recorded in the Groups statement of financial position.
By contrast, if the fair value of the assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligation then the surplus will only be recognised if the nature of the arrangements under the trust deed, and funding arrangements between the Trustee and the Company, support the availability of refunds or recoverability through agreed reductions in future contributions.
In addition, if there is a constructive obligation for the Company to pay deficit funding, this is also recognised such that the financial position recorded for the scheme reflects the higher of any underlying IAS 19 deficit and the obligation for deficit funding.
The Group utilises the projected unit credit method to calculate the defined benefit obligation.
This method sees each period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine its present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The plan assets of the Groups pension schemes exclude several insurance contracts that have been issued by the Group.
These assets are excluded from plan assets in determining the pension obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset at the start of the period, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial and other gains and losses as a result of changes in assumptions or experience variances are recognised as other comprehensive income.
Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed when due.
q  The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
Shares held in trust relating to these plans are conditionally gifted to employees.
The compensation expense charged to the income statement is primarily based upon the fair value of the options granted, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
The Company has established trusts to facilitate the delivery of Prudential plc shares under employee incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
The cost to the Company of acquiring these treasury shares held in trusts is shown as a deduction from shareholders equity.
r Tax Current tax expense is charged or credited based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable amounts for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred taxes are provided under the liability method for all relevant temporary differences.
IAS 12 Income Taxes does not require all temporary differences to be provided for, in particular, the Group does not provide for deferred tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of the distribution and the temporary difference created is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is more likely than not that future taxable profits will be available against which these losses can be utilised.
The tax charge for long-term business includes tax expense attributable to both policyholders and shareholders.
In the UK, life insurance companies are taxed on both their shareholders profits and on their policyholders insurance and investment returns on certain insurance and investment products.
Tax on shareholders profits is calculated at the standard corporation tax rate, and tax on policyholders investment returns is calculated at the basic rate of income tax.
Although both types of tax are included in the total tax charge in the Groups consolidated income statement, they are presented separately in the income statement to provide the most relevant information about tax that the Group pays on its profits.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or are substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Financial statements A: Background and accounting policies Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 141 s  Business acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting, which adjusts the net assets of the acquired company to fair value at the date of purchase.
The excess of the acquisition consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill.
Expenses related to acquiring new subsidiaries are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Income and expenses of acquired entities are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Income and expenses of entities sold during the period are included in the income statement up to the date of disposal.
The gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between sale proceeds net of selling costs, less the net assets of the entity at the date of disposal adjusted for foreign exchange movements attaching to the sold entity that are required to be recycled to the income statement under IAS 21. t Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses is capitalised and carried on the Group statement of financial position as an intangible asset at initial value less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill impairment testing is conducted annually and when there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units.
u Intangibleassets Intangible assets acquired on the purchase of a subsidiary or portfolio of contracts are measured at fair value on acquisition.
Deferred acquisition costs are accounted for as described in notes A3.1 d and A3.1 f above.
Other intangible assets, such as distribution rights and software, are valued initially at the price paid to acquire them and are subsequently carried at cost less amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Distribution rights relate to fees paid under bancassurance partnership arrangements for bank distribution of products for the term of the contract.
Amounts for distribution rights are amortised on a basis to reflect the pattern in which the future economic benefits are expected to be consumed by reference to new business levels.
The same principles apply to determining the amortisation method for other intangible assets unless the pattern cannot be determined reliably, in which case a straight line method is applied.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the acquisition costs and other expenditure line in the income statement.
v  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand, deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other short-term highly liquid investments with less than 90 days maturity from the date of acquisition.
w  Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
x Sharecapital Where there is no obligation to transfer assets, shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the proceeds received on issue of the shares, net of share issue costs, and the nominal value of the shares issued, is credited to share premium.
Where the Company purchases shares for the purposes of employee incentive plans, the consideration paid, net of issue costs, is deducted from retained earnings.
Upon issue or sale any consideration received is credited to retained earnings net of related costs.
y Foreignexchange The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the Groups presentation currency.
Accordingly, the results and financial position of foreign subsidiaries must be translated into the presentation currency of the Group from their functional currencies, ie the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are converted at year end exchange rates while all income and expenses are converted at average exchange rates where this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing on transaction dates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded as a separate component in the statement of comprehensive income.
Foreign currency borrowings that are used to provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated at year end exchange rates and movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other foreign currency monetary items are translated at year end exchange rates with changes recognised in the income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are translated at the spot rate prevailing at the time.
z Earningspershare Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held in employee share trusts and consolidated unit trusts and OEICs, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Groups only class of potentially dilutive ordinary shares are those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year.
No adjustment is made if the impact is anti-dilutive overall.
142 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to primary statements A:  A3:  A3.2  The following standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued but are not yet effective in 2014, including those which have not yet been adopted in the EU.
This is not intended to be a complete list as only those standards, interpretations and amendments that could have an impact upon the Groups financial statements are discussed.
a  Annual improvements to IFRS 2010-2012 Cycle and 2011-2013 Cycle These improvements include minor changes to ten IFRS standards, and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment and IFRS 3 Business Combinations included in Annual improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 cycle are applied to share-based payment transactions for which the grant date is on or after 1 July 2014 and to business combinations for which the date of acquisition is on or after 1 July 2014, respectively.
In these financial statements, the Group had no transactions on or after 1 July that were affected by these amendments.
The Group is assessing the impact of the remaining amendments, but they are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
b  Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 The amendments published in May 2014 provide additional guidance on how the depreciation or amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets should be calculated.
They are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with earlier application being permitted.
The Group does not expect these amendments to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
 This standard effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, provides a single framework to recognise revenue for contracts with different characteristics and overrides the framework provided for such contracts in other standards.
The following contracts are exempt from this standard: Lease contracts within IAS 17: Insurance contracts within IFRS 4: Financial instruments as covered within IAS 39, IFRS 9, 10 and 11: and IAS 27, IAS 28 and IAS 29.
The Group is assessing the impact of this standard but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
: In July 2014, the IASB published a complete version of IFRS 9 with the exception of macro hedge accounting.
The standard becomes mandatorily effective for the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted and transitional rules apply.
This standard replaces the existing IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement, and will affect: The classification and the measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
Under IFRS 9, financial assets are classified under one of the following categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income FVOCI and fair value through profit or loss FVTPL based on their contractual cash flow characteristics and or the business model in which they are held.
The existing amortised cost measurement for financial liabilities is largely maintained under IFRS 9, but for financial liabilities designated at FVTPL, changes in fair value due to changes in entitys own credit risk are to be recognised in other comprehensive income: The calculation of the impairment charge relevant for financial assets held at amortised cost or FVOCI.
A new impairment model based on an expected credit loss approach replaces the existing IAS 39 incurred loss impairment model: and The hedge accounting requirements which are more closely aligned with the risk management activities of the Company.
The Group is assessing the impact of this standard in conjunction with the requirements of the IASBs proposals for insurance contracts accounting as they are developed to a final standard.
The adoption of the requirements of IFRS 9 may result in reclassification of certain of the Groups financial assets and hence lead to a change in the measurement of these instruments or the performance reporting of value movements.
In addition, for the Groups investments classified as FVOCI, as noted above, the impairment provisioning approach is altered.
The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting for most of its derivative programmes but will reconsider its approach in light of new requirements under the standard on adoption.
