Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 313 Additional unaudited financial information I: IFRS profit and loss information a Analysis of long-term insurance business pre-tax IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns by driver This schedule classifies the Groups pre-tax operating earnings from long-term insurance operations into the underlying drivers of those profits, using the following categories: Spread income represents the difference between net investment income or premium income in the case of the UK annuities new business and amounts credited to certain policyholder accounts.
It excludes the operating investment return on shareholder net assets, which has been separately disclosed as expected return on shareholder assets.
Fee income represents profits driven by net investment performance, being asset management fees that vary with the size of the underlying policyholder funds net of investment management expenses.
With-profits business represents the gross of tax shareholders transfer from the with-profits fund for the year.
Insurance margin primarily represents profits derived from the insurance risks of mortality and morbidity.
Margin on revenues primarily represents amounts deducted from premiums to cover acquisition costs and administration expenses.
Acquisition costs and administration expenses represent expenses incurred in the year attributable to shareholders.
It excludes items such as restructuring costs and Solvency II costs which are not included in the segment profit for insurance as well as items that are more appropriately included in other sources of earnings lines eg investment expenses are netted against investment income as part of spread income or fee income as appropriate.
DAC adjustments comprises DAC amortisation for the year, excluding amounts related to short-term fluctuations in investment returns, net of costs deferred in respect of new business.
Analysis of pre-tax IFRS operating profit by source and Margin analysis of Group long-term insurance business The following analysis expresses certain of the Groups sources of operating profit as a margin of policyholder liabilities or other suitable driver.
Details on the calculation of the Groups average policyholder liability balances are given in note iii.
