Financial statements D: Other notes P Pr ru ud fide en nt ti ia al l p pl lc c A Ann nnu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 14 4 2 25 57 7 The consideration for the transaction was THB 18.981 billion 412 million, of which THB 17.500 billion 380 million was settled in cash on completion in May 2013 with a further payment of THB 0.946 billion 20 million, for adjustments to reflect the net asset value as at completion date, paid in July 2013.
In addition a deferred payment of THB 0.535 billion 12 million was paid 12 months after completion.
Included in the total consideration of THB 18.981 billion 412 million was the cost of the distribution rights associated with the exclusive 15-year bancassurance partnership agreement with Thanachart Bank.
D2:  On 1 January 2014, following consultation with policyholders of PAC and regulators and court approval, the Hong Kong branch of PAC was transferred to separate subsidiaries established in Hong Kong.
On an IFRS basis, approximately 12.6 billion of assets, 12.3 billion of liabilities including policyholder liabilities of 10.2 billion and 1.7 billion of unallocated surplus and 0.3 billion of shareholders funds for the excess assets of the transferred non-participating business were transferred.
The costs of enabling the domestication in 2014 were 5 million 2013: 35 million.
Within the Groups supplementary analysis of profit, these costs have been presented as a separate category of items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as shown in note B1.1.
D3:  The Group is involved in a number of litigation and regulatory issues.
These include civil proceedings involving Jackson, which appear to be substantially similar to other class action litigation brought against many life insurers in the US, alleging misconduct in the sale of insurance products.
Whilst the outcome of such litigation and regulatory issues cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes that their ultimate outcome will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
 The pensions review by the UK insurance regulator of past sales of personal pension policies required all UK life insurance companies to review their cases of potential mis-selling and record a provision for the estimated costs.
The Group met the requirement of the UK insurance regulator to issue offers to all cases by 30 June 2002.
At 31 December 2014 the pension mis-selling provision was 328 million 2013: 286 million.
The pension mis-selling provision is included within the liabilities in respect of investment contracts with discretionary participation features under IFRS 4 and is stochastically determined on a discounted basis.
The average discount rate in the movement in the year is 2.0 per cent 2013: 3.4 per cent.
The directors believe that, based on current information, the provision, together with future investment return on the assets backing the provision, will be adequate to cover the costs of pension mis-selling including administration costs.
Such provision represents the best estimate of probable costs and expenses.
However, there can be no assurance that the current provision level will not need to be increased.
The costs associated with the pension mis-selling review have been met from the inherited estate see below and, accordingly have not been charged to the asset shares used in the determination of policyholder bonus rates.
Hence policyholders pay-out values have been unaffected by pension mis-selling.
In 1998, Prudential stated that deducting mis-selling costs from the inherited estate would not impact its bonus or investment policy and it gave an assurance that if this unlikely event were to occur, it would make available support to the fund from shareholder resources for as long as the situation continued, so as to ensure that policyholders were not disadvantaged.
This review was completed on 30 June 2002 with the assurance continuing to apply to any policy in force at 31 December 2003, both for premiums paid before 1 January 2004, and for subsequent regular premiums including future fixed, retail price index or salary related increases and Department of Work and Pensions rebate business.
The assurance has not applied to new business since 1 January 2004.
Guaranteedannuities PAC used to sell guaranteed annuity products in the UK and at 31 December 2014 held a provision of 50 million 2013: 36 million within the main with-profits fund within policyholder liabilities to honour guarantees on these products.
The Groups main exposure to guaranteed annuities in the UK is through SAIF and at 31 December 2014 a provision of 549 million 2013: 328 million was held in SAIF to honour the guarantees.
As SAIF is a separate sub-fund of the PAC long-term business fund, attributable to the policyholders, the movement in this provision has no impact on shareholders.
Othermatters  The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the long-term insurance fund of PAC comprise the amounts that it expects to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many years from various sources.
This estate enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency and by absorbing the costs of certain significant events or fundamental changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment return and the extent of its utilisation.
