Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 351 How to contact us Prudential plc Prudential UK & Europe Institutional Analyst and Investor Laurence Pountney Hill 3 Sheldon Square enquiries London EC4R 0HH London W2 6PR Tel 44 0 20 7548 3300 Tel 44 0 20 7220 7588 Tel 44 0 800 000 000 Email: investor.
co. uk UK Register Private Shareholder Paul Manduca Jackie Hunt enquiries Chairman Chief Executive Tel: 0871 384 2035 International shareholders Tidjane Thiam M&G Tel 44 0 121 415 7026 Group Chief Executive Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Irish Branch Register Private Nic Nicandrou Tel 44 0 20 7626 4588 Shareholder enquiries Chief Financial Officer www.
co. uk Tel 353 1 553 0050 Pierre-Olivier Boue Michael McLintock Hong Kong Branch Register Private Group Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive Shareholder enquiries Tel 852 2862 8555 Julian Adams Prudential Corporation Asia Group Regulatory Director 13th Floor US American Depository Receipts One International Finance Centre Holder enquiries Margaret Coltman 1 Harbour View Street Tel 1 651 453 2128 Group General Counsel Central Hong Kong The Central Depository Pte Limited John Foley Tel 852 2918 6300 Shareholder enquiries Group Investment Director www.
com Tel 65 6535 7511 John Murray Barry Stowe Media enquiries Group Communications Director Chief Executive Tel 44 0 20 7548 3559 Email: media.
co. uk Tim Rolfe Jackson National Life Insurance Group Human Resources Director Company 1 Corporate Way Alan Porter Lansing Group Company Secretary Michigan 48951 USA Tel 1 517 381 5500 www.
com Mike Wells President and Chief Executive Officer 352 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information How to contact us How to contact us continued Prudential public limited company Forward-looking statements relevant regulatory frameworks, and tax and other legislation and regulations in the Incorporated and registered in England This document may contain forward and Wales looking statements with respect to certain jurisdictions in which Prudential and its of Prudentials plans and its goals and affiliates operate: and the impact of legal Registered office expectations relating to its future financial actions and disputes.
Laurence Pountney Hill condition, performance, results, strategy These and other important factors may, London EC4R 0HH and objectives.
Statements that are not for example, result in changes to Registered number 1397169 historical facts, including statements about assumptions used for determining results Prudentials beliefs and expectations, and of operations or reestimations of reserves www.
co. uk including, without limitation, statements for future policy benefits.
containing the words may, will, should, Further discussion of these and other Prudential plc is a holding company, continue, aims, estimates, projects, important factors that could cause subsidiaries of which are authorised believes, intends, expects, plans, Prudentials actual future financial and regulated by the Prudential seeks and anticipates, and words of condition or performance or other Regulation Authority and the similar meaning, are forwardlooking indicated results to differ, possibly Financial Conduct Authority statements.
These statements are based materially, from those anticipated in on plans, estimates and projections as at Prudentials forwardlooking statements the time they are made, and therefore can be found under the Risk factors undue reliance should not be placed on heading in this Annual Report and the Risk them.
By their nature, all forwardlooking factors heading of Prudentials most recent statements involve risk and uncertainty.
annual report on Form 20F filed with the A number of important factors could US Securities and Exchange Commission, cause Prudentials actual future financial as well as under the Risk factors heading condition or performance or other of any subsequent Prudential Half Year indicated results to differ materially from Report.
Prudentials most recent Annual those indicated in any forwardlooking Report, Form 20F and any subsequent statement.
Such factors include, but are Half Year Report will be available on its not limited to, future market conditions, website at www.
co. uk including fluctuations in interest rates and Any forwardlooking statements exchange rates and the potential for contained in this document speak only a sustained lowinterest rate environment, as of the date on which they are made.
and the performance of financial markets Prudential expressly disclaims any generally: the policies and actions of obligation to update any of the forward regulatory authorities, including, for looking statements contained in this example, new government initiatives document or any other forwardlooking related to the financial crisis and the effect statements it may make, whether as a result of the European Unions Solvency II of future events, new information or requirements on Prudentials capital otherwise, except as required pursuant to maintenance requirements: the impact the UK Prospectus Rules, the UK Listing of continuing designation as a Global Rules, the UK Disclosure and Transparency Systemically Important Insurer or GSII: Rules, the Hong Kong Listing Rules, the the impact of competition, economic SGXST Listing Rules or other applicable growth, inflation, and deflation: experience laws and regulations.
in particular with regard to mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal rates: the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries: the impact of changes in capital, solvency standards, accounting standards or This report is printed on Amadeus 75 Matt, a paper made from 75 per cent recycled post-consumer waste and 25 per cent virgin fibre sourced from fully sustainable forests: and Cocoon Preprint, made from 100 per cent recycled fibre sourced from fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All material used in this report has been independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All pulps used are elemental chlorine free, and the inks used are vegetable oil based.
The manufacturing mills and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Designed by Fishburn Printed in the UK by CPI Colour Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Prudential public limited company Incorporated and registered in England and Wales Registered office Laurence Pountney Hill London EC4R 0HH Registered number 1397169 www.
co. uk Prudential plc is a holding company, subsidiaries of which are authorised and regulated, as applicable, by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
