Directors Summary of Directors remuneration policy remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 101 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk Committees as principal standing Committees of the Board.
These Committees form a key element of the Group governance framework.
The operation of the Committee Members Lord Turnbull Chairman Anthony Nightingale Kai Nargolwala Philip Remnant Role and responsibility The role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed by the Committee and approved by the Board on an annual basis, and which can be found on the Companys website.
The Committees role is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities regarding the determination of the overall remuneration policy for the Group, including the remuneration of the Chairman and executive directors, as well as overseeing the remuneration arrangements of the senior executives across the Group.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: Determining and recommending to the Board for approval, the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and executive directors: Approving the design of performance-related pay schemes operated for the executive directors and determining the targets and individual payouts under such schemes: Reviewing the design and development of all share plans requiring approval by the Board and or the Companys shareholders: Approving the share ownership guidelines for the Chairman and executive directors and monitoring compliance: Reviewing and approving individual packages for the executive directors and the Chairman fee: Review and approve packages to be offered to newly recruited executive directors: Reviewing and approving the structure and quantum of any severance package for executive directors: Ensuring the process for establishing remuneration policy is transparent and consistent with the Groups risk appetite, encourages strong risk management and solvency management practices and takes account of remuneration practices across the Group: and Monitoring the remuneration and risk management implications of remuneration of senior executives across the Group, senior staff in the risk, control and governance functions and those with an opportunity to earn in excess of 1 million in a particular year.
The effectiveness of the Committee was evaluated as part of the overall performance evaluation of the Board.
This assessment confirmed that the Committee continued to operate effectively during the year.
More information on this exercise can be found under the Performance Evaluation section on page 77.
102 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued In 2014, the Committee met six times.
Key activities at each meeting are shown in the table below: Meeting Key activities February 2014 Approve the 2013 directors remuneration report: consider 2013 bonus awards for executive directors: consider vesting of the long-term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2013: approve 2014 long-term incentive awards, performance measures and Plan documentation: approve changes to the all-employee Sharesave and SIP limits: and consider the package for the Group Chief Risk Officer.
March 2014 Confirm 2013 annual bonuses and the vesting of long-term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2013, in light of audited financial results.
June 2014 Review the remuneration of senior executives across the Group, senior risk staff and of employees with a remuneration opportunity over 1 million per annum: and review progress towards share ownership guidelines by the Chairman, executive directors and Group Executive Committee members.
September 2014 Consider performance for outstanding long-term incentive awards, based on the half-year results: review 2 meetings termination arrangements for a member of Senior Management: review the dilution levels resulting from the Companys share plans: review total proposed 2015 remuneration of executive directors ahead of consultation with shareholders: consider proposed changes to the Chairman's fee: and review the Remuneration Committee's terms of reference.
December 2014 Review the level of participation in the Companys all-employee share plans: consider feedback received from shareholders about executive remuneration in 2015: approve executive directors 2015 salaries and incentive opportunities: consider the annual bonus and long-term incentive measures and targets to be used in 2015: review an initial draft of the 2014 directors remuneration report: consider the introduction of a clawback facility: and approve the Committees 2015 work plan.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee also had the benefit of advice from: Group Chief Risk Officer: Chief Financial Officer: Group Human Resources Director: and Director of Group Reward and Employee Relations.
Individuals are never present when their own remuneration is discussed.
During 2014, Deloitte LLP were the independent adviser to the Committee.
Deloitte were appointed by the Committee in 2011 following a competitive tender process.
As part of this process, the Committee considered the services that Deloitte provided to Prudential and its competitors as well as other potential conflicts of interests.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operate under their code of conduct when providing advice on executive remuneration in the UK.
Deloitte regularly meet with the Chairman of the Committee without management present.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team providing remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with Prudential that may impair their independence and objectivity.
The total fees paid to Deloitte for the provision of independent advice to the Committee in 2014 were 80,500 charged on a time and materials basis.
During 2014, Deloitte also gave Prudential management advice on remuneration, as well as providing guidance on Solvency II, taxation, internal audit, real estate and other financial, risk and regulatory matters.
Remuneration advice is provided by an entirely separate team within Deloitte.
In addition, management received external advice and data from a number of other providers.
This included market data and legal counsel.
This advice, and these services, are not considered to be material.
During the year, the Company has complied with the appropriate provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code which were then in force regarding directors remuneration.
