344 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Glossary Glossary AER Bulk annuity Deferred acquisition costs or DAC Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical A bulk annuity, sometimes referred to as Acquisition costs are expenses of an exchange rates for the specific accounting a bulk purchase annuity, is a contract insurer which are incurred in connection period, being the average rates over the between a defined benefit pension scheme with the acquisition of new insurance period for the income statement and the and an insurance company, whereby an contracts or the renewal of existing closing rates for the balance sheet at the insurance company insures some or all of insurance policies.
They include balance sheet date.
the liabilities of the pension scheme.
commissions and other variable sales inducements and the direct costs Annual premium equivalent or APE Cash surrender value of issuing the policy, such as underwriting A measure of new business activity that The amount of cash available to and other policy issue expenses.
Typically, is calculated as the sum of annualised a policyholder on the surrender of, or under IFRS, an element of acquisition regular premiums from new business plus withdrawal from, a life insurance policy costs are deferred, ie, not expensed 10 per cent of single premiums on new or annuity contract.
in the year incurred, and instead amortised business written during the period.
in the income statement in line with CER the emergence of surpluses on the Asset-backed security Constant Exchange Rate Prudential plc related contracts.
A security whose value and income reports its results at both actual exchange payments are derived from, and rates AER to reflect actual results, and Deferred annuities collateralised or backed by, a specified also constant exchange rates CER so as Annuities or pensions due to be paid from pool of underlying assets.
The pool of to eliminate the impact from exchange a future date or when the policyholder assets is typically a group of small and translation.
CER results are calculated by reaches a specified age.
illiquid assets that are unable to be translating prior year results using current sold individually.
period foreign currency exchange rates, ie, Discretionary participation features current period average rates for the income or DPF Available for sale AFS statements and current period closing rate A contractual right to receive, as a Securities that have been acquired neither for the balance sheet.
supplement to guaranteed benefits, for short-term sale nor to be held to additional benefits: maturity.
AFS securities are measured at Closed-book life insurance business That are likely to be a significant portion fair value on the statement of financial A closed book is essentially a group of of the total contractual benefits: position with unrealised gains and losses insurance policies that are no longer sold, being booked in other comprehensive but are still featured on the books of a life Whose amount or timing is Income instead of the income statement.
The contractually at the discretion of the insurance company has closed the books issuer: and Back book of business on new sales of these products which will That are contractually based on The insurance policies sold in past periods remain in run-off until the policies expire asset, fund, company or other that are still in force, and hence are still and all claims are settled.
recorded on the insurers balance sheet.
Core structural borrowings Dividend cover Bonuses Borrowings which Prudential considers to Dividend cover is calculated as operating Bonuses refer to the non-guaranteed form part of its core capital structure and profit after tax on an IFRS basis, divided by benefit added to participating life insurance exclude operational borrowings.
the current year interim dividend plus the policies and are the way in which proposed final dividend.
policyholders receive their share of the Credit risk profits of the policies.
There are normally The risk of loss if another party fails Endowment product two types of bonus: to meet its obligations, or fails to do so in An ordinary individual life insurance a timely fashion.
Regular bonus expected to be added product that provides the insured party every year during the term of the policy.
with various guaranteed benefits if it Currency risk It is not guaranteed that a regular bonus survives specific maturity dates or periods The risk that asset or liability values, cash will be added each year, but once it is stated in the policy.
Upon the death of the flows, income or expenses will be affected added, it cannot be reversed, also insured party within the coverage period, by changes in exchange rates.
known as annual or reversionary a designated beneficiary receives the face Also referred to as foreign exchange risk.
bonus: and value of the policy.
Final bonus an additional bonus European Embedded Value or EEV expected to be paid when policyholders Financial results that are prepared on take money from the policies.
If a supplementary basis to the Groups investment return has been low over consolidated IFRS results and which are the lifetime of the policy, a final bonus prepared in accordance with a set of may not be paid.
Final bonuses may Principles issued by the Chief Financial vary and are not guaranteed.
Officers Forum of European Insurance Companies in May 2004 and expanded by the Additional Guidance of EEV Disclosures published in October 2005.
The principles are designed to capture the value of the new business sold in the period and of the business in force.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 345 Fixed annuities Guaranteed minimum accumulation Inherited estate Fixed annuity contracts written in the US benefit GMAB US For life insurance proprietary companies, which allow for tax-deferred accumulation A guarantee that ensures that the contract surplus capital available on top of what of funds, are used for asset accumulation in value of a variable annuity contract will be is necessary to cover policyholders retirement planning and for providing at least equal to a certain minimum amount reasonable expectations.
An inherited income in retirement and offer flexible after a specified number of years.
orphan estate is effectively surplus capital pay-out options.
The contract holder pays on a realistic basis built over time, and not the insurer a premium, which is credited to Guaranteed minimum death benefit allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
Periodically, GMDB US interest is credited to the contract holders The basic death benefit offered under Internal rate of return IRR account and administrative charges are variable annuity contracts, which specifies The IRR is equivalent to the discount rate deducted, as appropriate.
that if the owner dies before annuity at which the present EEV value of the income payments begin, the beneficiary post-tax cash flows expected to be earned Fixed indexed annuities will receive a payment equal to the greater over the lifetime of the business written These are similar to fixed annuities in that of the contract value or purchase payments in shareholder-backed life funds is equal the contract holder pays the insurer a less withdrawals.
to the total invested capital to support premium, which is credited to the contract the writing of the business.
The capital holders account and, periodically, interest Guaranteed minimum income included in the calculation of the IRR is credited to the contract holders account benefit GMIB US is equal to the amount required to pay and administrative charges are deducted, A guarantee that ensures, under certain acquisition costs and set up reserves, less as appropriate.
An annual minimum conditions, that the owner may annuitise premiums received, plus encumbered interest rate may be guaranteed, although the variable annuity contract based on the capital.
The impact of the time value of actual interest credited may be higher and greater of a the actual account value options and guarantees is included in is linked to an equity index over its indexed or b a pay-out base equal to premiums the calculation.
credited with some interest rate, or the maximum anniversary value of the account Internal vesting Funds under management prior to annuitisation.
Internal vestings are proceeds from a These comprise funds of the Group held Prudential policy which the policyholder in the statement of financial position and Guaranteed minimum withdrawal has decided to reinvest in a Prudential external funds that are managed by benefit GMWB US annuity product.
A guarantee in a variable annuity that promises that the owner may make annual International Financial Reporting Group free surplus withdrawals of a defined amount for the life Standards IFRS Group free surplus at the end of the period of the owner or until the total guaranteed Accounting standards that all publicly comprises free surplus for the insurance amount is recovered, regardless of market listed groups in the European Union are businesses, representing the excess of the performance or the actual account balance.
required to apply in preparing consolidated net worth over the required capital financial statements.
included in the EEV results, and IFRS net Health and protection assets for the asset management These comprise health and personal Investment grade businesses excluding goodwill.
The free accident insurance products, which provide Investments rated BBBor above for S&P, surplus generated during the period morbidity or sickness benefits and include Baa3 or above for Moodys.
Generally they comprises the movement in this balance health, disability, critical illness and accident are bonds that are judged by the rating excluding foreign exchange, capital, and coverage.
Health and protection products agency as likely enough to meet payment other reserve movements.
Specifically, are sold both as standalone policies and as obligations that banks are allowed it includes amounts maturing from the riders that can be attached to life insurance to invest in them.
in-force operations during the period, products.
Health and protection riders are less the investment in new business, the presented together with ordinary individual Investment-linked products or effect of market movements and other life insurance products for purposes of contracts one-off items.
Insurance products where the surrender value of the policy is linked to the value of Guaranteed annuities IGD surplus underlying investments such as collective Policies that pay out a fixed amount of The Prudential Groups solvency surplus investment schemes, internal investment benefit for a defined period.
measured in accordance with the EU pools or other property or fluctuations Insurance Groups Directive.
in the value of underlying investment or Guaranteed investment contract indices.
Investment risk associated with GIC US Immediate annuity the product is usually borne by the An investment contract between an An annuity in which payments to the policyholder.
Insurance coverage, insurance company and an institutional annuitant or beneficiary start at once upon investment and administration services investor, which provides a stated rate of establishment of the annuity plan or scheme.
are provided for which the charges are return on deposits over a specified period Such annuities are almost always purchased deducted from the investment fund assets.
They typically provide for partial or with a single lump sum payment.
Benefits payable will depend on the price total withdrawals at book value if needed of the units prevailing at the time of for certain liquidity needs of the plan.
In-force surrender, death or the maturity of the An insurance policy or contract reflected product, subject to surrender charges.
on records that has not expired, matured or These are also referred to as unit-linked otherwise been surrendered or terminated.
346 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Glossary Glossary continued Liquidity coverage ratio Non-participating business Present value of new business Prudential calculates this as assets and A life insurance policy where the premiums or PVNBP available resources that are readily policyholder is not entitled to a share The present value of new business convertible to cash to cover corporate of the Companys profits and surplus, premiums is calculated as equalling single obligations in a prescribed stress scenario.
but receives certain guaranteed benefits.
premiums plus the present value of This ratio is calculated over a range of time Also known as non-profit in the UK.
expected premiums of new regular horizons extending to 12 months.
Examples include pure risk policies eg, premium business, allowing for lapses and fixed annuities, term insurance, critical other assumptions made in determining Liquidity premium illness and unit-linked insurance contracts.
the EEV new business contribution.
This comprises the premium that is required to compensate for the lower Open-ended investment company Prudential Regulation Authority or liquidity of corporate bonds relative to OEIC PRA swaps, and the mark to market risk A collective investment fund structured as The PRA is a UK regulatory body premium that is required to compensate for a limited company in which investors can responsible for prudential regulation and the potential volatility in corporate bond buy and sell shares.
supervision of banks, building societies, spreads and hence market values at the credit unions, insurers and major time of sale.
Borrowings which arise in the normal Market value reduction MVR course of the business.
Regular premium product A reduction applied to the payment on A life insurance product with regular with-profits bonds when policyholders Participating funds periodic premium payments.
surrender in adverse market conditions.
Distinct portfolios where the policyholders have a contractual right to receive, at the Rider Money Market Fund MMF discretion of the insurer, additional benefits A supplemental plan that can be attached An MMF is an open-ended mutual fund based on factors such as the performance to a basic insurance policy, with payment that invests in short-term debt securities of a pool of assets held within the fund, as of additional premium.
such as US treasury bills and commercial a supplement to any guaranteed benefits.
The purpose of an MMF is to The insurer may either have discretion as Risk margin reserve RMR charge provide investors with a safe place to the timing of the allocation of those An RMR is included within operating profit to invest easily accessible cash-equivalent benefits to participating policyholders or based on longer-term investment returns assets characterised as a low-risk, may have discretion as to the timing and and represents a charge for long-term low-return investment.
the amount of the additional benefits.
For expected defaults of debt securities, Prudential, the most significant participating determined by reference to the credit Mortality rate funds are with-profits funds for businesses quality of the portfolio.
Rate of death, varying by such parameters written in the UK, Hong Kong, Malaysia as age, gender, and health, used in pricing and Singapore.
Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund and computing liabilities for future SAIF policyholders of life and annuity products, Participating policies or participating SAIF is a ring-fenced sub-fund of the which contain mortality risks.
business Prudential Assurance Companys Contracts of insurance where the long-term fund following the acquisition of Net premiums policyholders have a contractual right to the mutually owned Scottish Amicable Life Life insurance premiums, net of reinsurance receive, at the discretion of the insurer, Assurance Society in 1997.
The fund is ceded to third-party reinsurers.
additional benefits based on factors solely for the benefit of policyholders of such as investment performance, SAIF.
Shareholders of Prudential plc have Net worth as a supplement to any guaranteed no interest in the profits of this fund Net assets for EEV reporting purposes that benefits.
This is also referred to although they are entitled to asset reflect the regulatory basis position, as with-profits business.
management fees on this business.
sometimes with adjustments to achieve consistency with the IFRS treatment of Payback period Separate account certain items.
Payback period is the time in which the A separate account is a pool of investments initial cash outflow of investment is held by an insurance company not in or New business margin expected to be recovered from the cash separate from its general account.
The value of new business on an EEV basis inflows generated by the investment.
We The returns from the separate account expressed as a percentage of the present measure cash outflow by our investment generally accrue to the policyholder.
value of new business premiums expected of free surplus in new business sales.
A separate account allows an investor to to be received from the new business.
The payback period equals the time taken choose an investment category according for this business to generate free surplus to the individuals risk tolerance, and desire New business profit to cover this investment.
The profits, calculated in accordance with are measured on an undiscounted basis.
European Embedded Value Principles, Single premiums from business sold in the financial reporting Single premium policies of insurance are period under consideration.
those that require only a single lump sum payment from the policyholder.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 347 Stochastic techniques Unit-linked products or unit-linked Stochastic techniques incorporate results contracts from repeated simulations using key See investment-linked products or financial parameters which are subject to contracts above.
random variations and are projected into the future.
Universal life An insurance product where the customer Subordinated debt pays flexible premiums, subject to specified A fixed interest issue or debt that ranks limits, which are accumulated in an account below other debt in order of priority for and are credited with interest at a rate repayment if the issuer is liquidated.
either set by the insurer or reflecting Holders are compensated for the added returns on a pool of matching assets.
risk through higher rates of interest.
The customer may vary the death benefit Under EU insurance regulation, and the contract may permit the customer subordinated debt is not treated as a to withdraw the account balance, liability and counts towards the coverage typically subject to a surrender charge.
of the required minimum margin of solvency, with limitations.
Variable annuity VA US An annuity whose value is determined by Surrender the performance of underlying investment The termination of a life insurance policy options that frequently includes securities.
or annuity contract at the request of the A variable annuitys value is not guaranteed policyholder after which the policyholder and will fluctuate, depending on the value receives the cash surrender value, if any, of its underlying investments.
The holder of the contract.
of a variable annuity assumes the investment risk and the funds backing Surrender charge or surrender fee a variable annuity are held in the insurance The fee charged to a policyholder when companys separate account.
VAs are a life insurance policy or annuity contract similar to unit-linked annuities in the UK.
is surrendered for its cash surrender value prior to the end of the surrender Whole of life charge period.
A type of life insurance policy that provides lifetime protection: premiums must usually Takaful be paid for life.
The sum assured is paid out Insurance that is compliant with whenever death occurs.
Time value of options and With-profits funds guarantees See participating funds above.
The value of financial options and guarantees comprises two parts: the Yield intrinsic value and the time value.
The A measure of the income received from intrinsic value is given by a deterministic an investment compared to the price paid valuation on best estimate assumptions.
Normally expressed The time value is the additional value as a percentage.
arising from the variability of economic outcomes in the future.
Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents the growth in the value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the ex-dividend date.
Unallocated surplus Unallocated surplus is recorded wholly as a liability and represents the excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for Prudentials with-profits funds.
The balance retained in the unallocated surplus represents cumulative income arising on the withprofits business that has not been allocated to policyholders or shareholders.
