322 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Additional unaudited financial information Additional unaudited financial information continued II: Other information continued c Development of economic capital Overview Over the last decade regulatory bodies across the European Union have been working on the development of a more risk sensitive solvency framework.
Solvency II was developed with this objective in mind and following ratification of the Omnibus II Directive on 16 April 2014, it is expected to come into force on 1 January 2016.
It will apply to all European based insurers including Prudential.
Solvency II adopts the concept of market consistency as a valuation framework for both assets and liabilities as well as a one year value at risk methodology with certain modifications for evaluating solvency.
While the majority of assets held by insurers can be fair valued based on market observable prices albeit such market based valuations can be distorted at times of market stress, the same is not true of insurance liabilities which are not traded in liquid markets.
Solvency II seeks to create a proxy market value for insurance liabilities, by valuing best-estimate cash flows at market levels of risk-free interest rates and allowing for an additional risk margin to ensure these liabilities are sufficient to cover the amount another insurance company would be prepared to pay for these liabilities.
There are significant limitations with both i the notion that this market consistent approach to valuing assets and liabilities represents at all times the underlying economic reality, and ii the emphasis that Solvency II places on the fluctuation of these proxy market values over a one year timeframe.
The business typically undertaken by life insurers is long term in nature, with liability profiles that are matched by maturity with similarly termed assets.
This is why appropriately risk managed insurers can tolerate and withstand significant investment market volatility.
What is critical in the assessment of the viability of insurers is their ability to meet claims when they fall due, over many years, rather than whether they can meet a one-year test based on theoretical proxy market values.
Notwithstanding these limitations, Prudential has been working to implement the requirements of Solvency II in time for its adoption in 2016.
The section that follows provides an update on our progress towards implementation of Solvency II highlights ongoing areas of uncertainty and draws attention to aspects where our current approach may differ to the one that will be ultimately agreed with the Prudential Regulation Authority.
From our work to date and subject to these limitations, our estimated economic capital surplus, based on outputs from our Solvency II internal model, is 9.7 billion, equivalent to an economic capital ratio of 218 per cent.
Further explanation of the underlying economic capital methodology and assumptions which underpin these results is set out in the sections below.
31 December 31 December note Economic capital position 2014 bn 2013 bn Available capital 17.9 18.5 Economic Capital Requirement 8.2 7.2 Surplus 9.7 11.3 Economic capital ratio 218% 257% Note 1 Based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
In a number of areas Prudentials Solvency II methodology and assumptions will need to evolve in response to policy development and regulatory interpretations.
A number of working assumptions have been adopted at this stage, which remain subject to policy clarifications and continuing feedback from the Prudential Regulation Authority.
The calibration of the matching adjustment for UK annuity liabilities is one such example, as are a range of other calibration issues which will remain unclear until our internal model is approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Other areas where supervisory judgement and approval will be required include the proportion of Jacksons excess capital that will be included in the total surplus under the deduction and aggregation approach and the extent to which the economic capital surplus of our Asia operations will be recognised under the Solvency II fungibility tests.
Against this backdrop of uncertainty it is expected that the Solvency II outcome will result in a lower ratio than the economic capital ratio above.
As an indication of the range of uncertainty, we have produced the following sensitivities to reflect various possible Solvency II outcomes.
For example, relative to the 9.7 billion of economic capital surplus at 31 December 2014: 20 per cent haircut in the contribution recognised for Asia in the Group available capital, reflecting Solvency II fungibility tests, would reduce Group surplus by 1.9 billion -23 percentage points of cover ratio : Transitional relief may be applied in relation to the UK business, which subject to regulatory approval is expected to bring overall UK surplus in line with current Solvency I Pillar II levels.
Applying this transitional relief for UK annuities is estimated to increase Group surplus by 1.3 billion 16 percentage points of cover ratio : and A 10 per cent increase in UK annuity credit and longevity capital requirements reflecting adverse matching adjustment outcomes or calibration strengthening is estimated to reduce Group surplus by 0.6 billion -12 percentage points of cover ratio.
However, in this case the impact of transitional relief would be expected to increase as an offset to these changes.
These sensitivities are intended to provide examples and should not be considered indicative of the adjustments that the Prudential Regulation Authority may ultimately require.
Alongside developing the above economic capital based on outputs from our Solvency II internal model, we have developed an alternative multi-term economic capital model, which seeks to evaluate our ability to meet obligations to customers as these fall due and which in our view is the best way to assess our economic solvency.
This multi-term approach is designed to both overcome the artificial one year timeframe of the Solvency II methodology and remove areas of known excessive prudence that for us do not reflect economic reality, such as the imposition of an additional risk margin that a theoretical buyer may demand to take over the liabilities in one years time.
Removing this risk margin alone would increase the estimated surplus referred to above to 13.6 billion, equivalent to an economic capital ratio of 265 per cent.
This confirms the strong capital position of the Group and its ability to withstand severe market shocks, when assessed through appropriately risk-sensitive measures.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 323 Detail relating to the economic capital position based on outputs from our Solvency II internal model Our economic capital results are based on outputs from our Solvency II internal model.
Although the Solvency II and Omnibus II Directives, together with the Level 2 Delegated Act published on 17 January 2015, provide a framework for the calculation of Solvency II results, there remain material areas of policy uncertainty and the methodology and assumptions are subject to review and approval by the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Groups lead supervisor.
We remain on track to submit our internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval in 2015.
However, given the degree of uncertainty, these economic capital results should not be interpreted as representing the Pillar I output from an approved Solvency II internal model and are not intended to provide a forecast of the eventual position.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had an economic capital surplus of 9.7 billion 2013: 11.3 billion and an economic capital ratio of 218 per cent before taking into account the 2014 final dividend.
A summary of the capital position on this basis is shown in the table below: 31 December 31 December note Economic capital position 2014 bn 2013 bn Available capital 17.9 18.5 Economic capital requirement 8.2 7.2 Surplus 9.7 11.3 Economic capital ratio 218% 257% Note 1 Based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
The economic capital results are based on outputs from our current Solvency II internal model with a number of working assumptions.
Further explanation of the underlying methodology and assumptions are set out in the sections below.
Certain aspects of this methodology and assumptions will differ from those which are applied in obtaining final internal model approval.
Consequently, the position is expected to evolve to reflect policy clarifications and feedback from the Prudential Regulation Authority on Prudentials approach to applying this new regime.
Against this background of uncertainty, it is expected that the Solvency II ratio based on an approved model will be lower than the position shown above.
Methodology In line with Solvency II, for the Groups European and Asia life business, and holding companies, the available capital is the value of assets in excess of liabilities.
The key components of available capital are the market value of assets, insurance technical provisions calculated as the sum of best estimate liabilities plus a risk margin and other liabilities.
Subordinated-debt forms part of available capital, rather than being treated as a liability, since this debt is subordinated to policyholder claims.
As a general principle, both assets and liabilities are recognised at the value at which they could theoretically be transferred to a third party in an arms length transaction.
On the asset side of the balance sheet, assets are mostly held at IFRS fair value.
However, adjustments are required to IFRS values to eliminate intangible items such as goodwill and deferred acquisition costs and to take account of economic assets which are excluded from the current IFRS balance sheet such as the present value of future with-profits shareholder transfers.
The best estimate liability is calculated by taking the average of future risk-adjusted best estimate cash flows, taking into account the time value of money.
An economic definition of contract boundaries has been applied in determining the cash flows to include in the best estimate liability.
The best estimate liability also allows for the value of options and guarantees embedded in existing contracts as well as the value of future discretionary benefits payable to policyholders.
Realistic management actions and policyholder behaviour are allowed for where relevant.
In addition, since capital requirements are only derived to cover risks over a one year horizon, a risk margin is added to the best estimate liability to cover the cost of ceding liabilities to a third party after one year, assuming a 6 per cent per annum cost of capital and with no diversification between legal entities, in line with Solvency II requirements.
The Economic Capital Requirement measures the potential reduction in the value of available capital over a one year time horizon, in an adverse 1-in-200 probability event, consistently with Solvency II.
This allows for diversification effects between different risk-types and between entities.
No restrictions on the economic value of overseas surplus have been allowed for in assessing the capital position at Group level, reflecting our view that in an economic capital assessment, haircuts for transferability restrictions are artificial.
Prudentials US insurance entities are included in the economic capital position on a local RBC basis under the assumption of US equivalence and the assumed permitted use of the deduction and aggregation method.
This is in line with our view of the most likely outcome of Solvency II given the agreement reached in the Omnibus II Directive.
The contribution of US insurance entities to the Group surplus is that in excess of 250 per cent of the US RBC Company Action Level, which is in line with the level at which we measure both the Groups IGD surplus and the Groups reported free surplus amount.
In line with Solvency II requirements under the deduction and aggregation method, no diversification benefit is allowed for between US insurance entities and other parts of the Group.
The Group calculation also includes all non-insurance entities, including asset management companies, Prudential Capital and holding companies, as follows: Asset managers are included in line with existing sectoral capital rules, and Prudential Capital is included on a Basel basis, which follows the expected Solvency II treatment: Defined benefit pension schemes are included using international accounting standards and, in addition, a capital requirement is derived from stressing the accounting position: and Holding companies are measured on a Solvency II basis, as if they were insurance companies, in line with Solvency II rules.
324 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Additional unaudited financial information Additional unaudited financial information continued II: Other information continued In addition to the assumption of US equivalence, no transferability restrictions have been applied to the economic value of overseas surplus.
Other key elements of Prudentials methodology relating to areas that are presently unclear for Solvency II Pillar I calculations, relate to: i The liability discount rate for UK annuities, which includes an initial estimate of the Solvency II matching adjustment in addition to the risk-free rate, but where there remains a range of possible outcomes pending further policy clarity: ii The impact of transitional arrangements on technical provisions, for which no allowance has been made in the economic capital position, but which may apply under Solvency II although the use of this transitional is subject to regulatory approval and the extent to which it is permitted is likely to depend on the final Solvency II capital position : and iii C apital requirements for currency translation impacts, arising from overseas capital supporting non-UK subsidiaries being measured in sterling at potentially stressed exchange rates.
This impact is not currently allowed for, reflecting our view that an economic capital exposure only arises where funds need to be transferred between entities in order to cover a negative surplus position.
Further, Solvency II outcomes remain unclear in relation to the tiering of hybrid capital instruments, although tiering limits are not currently expected to result in any restrictions.
The 2013 results were prepared using a liquidity premium methodology, before the matching adjustment had been included in our internal model.
Under this previous basis, credit reserves were set as a proportion of credit spreads.
The 2013 results have not been restated for the effect of adopting the matching adjustment methodology, with the difference between the two approaches being recorded within the 2014 model changes.
Assumptions The key assumptions required for the economic capital calibration are: i Assumptions used to derive non-market related best estimate liability cash flows, which are based on EEV best estimate assumptions: ii Assumptions used to derive market related best estimate liability cash flows, which are based on market data at the valuation date where this data is reliable and comes from a deep and liquid market, or on appropriate extrapolation methodologies where markets are not sufficiently liquid to be reliable: iii Assumptions underlying the calculation of the best estimate liability in respect of dynamic management actions and policyholder behaviour: iv Assumptions underlying the risk models used to calculate the 1-in-200 level capital requirements for the Economic Capital Requirement which are set using a combination of historic market, demographic and operating experience data and expert judgement: and v Assumptions on the dependencies between risks, which are calibrated using a combination of historic data and expert judgement.
The risk-free curve at which best estimate liability cash flows are discounted is based on market swap rates with the exception of Vietnam, India and Poland where no liquid swap market exists and government bond yields are therefore used, with a deduction of between 10 and 35 basis points depending on country to allow for a credit risk adjustment to swap rates.
This treatment reflects the likely outcome under Solvency II.
In addition, an estimated matching adjustment is added to the liability discount rate for UK annuities, in both the base balance sheet and in the stressed conditions underlying the Economic Capital Requirement.
The matching adjustment is set equal to the yield on the backing-assets in each portfolio, less deductions for credit risk, cash flow mismatch allowances and haircuts for assets assumed to be ineligible for the matching adjustment currently around 10 per cent of shareholder-backed annuity assets.
Full allowance has been made for diversification benefits between the matching adjustment portfolio and other funds, reflecting an economic treatment.
These assumed deductions from the portfolio yield are summarised in the table below.
However, the final Solvency II matching adjustment outcome remains subject to considerable uncertainties and may vary significantly from these assumptions.
Post 1-in 200 stress undiversified Base bps bps Credit allowances deducted from asset yields UK shareholder-backed annuities 71 172 Aside from UK annuities, no matching adjustment allowance or any other form of liquidity premium has been assumed for any other lines of business.
Other business developments On 5 February 2015 Prudential announced the completion of the sale of its closed book business in Japan.
The contribution of Japan to the Group surplus has been set equal to the held for sale accounting value of 49 million.
On 10 November 2014, Prudential announced an agreement to sell its 25 per cent equity stake in the PruHealth and PruProtect businesses for 155 million, which is allowed for in these results.
On 1 July 2014 Prudential renewed its distribution agreement with Standard Chartered Bank to 2029.
The amount of these distribution fees is allowed for in these economic capital results and has had a negative impact on the Group solvency ratio of -10 percentage points.
The impact of the domestication of the Hong Kong branch, which became effective on 1 January 2014, is also allowed for and is estimated to have had a negative impact on the Group solvency ratio of -4 percentage points, mainly due to a loss of diversification in the risk margin following separation of the Hong Kong business into a subsidiary.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 325 Analysis of movement in the economic capital surplus The table below shows the movement during the financial year in the Groups economic capital surplus.
1 Analysis of movement in economic capital surplus from 1 January to 31 December 2014 bn 2013 bn Economic capital surplus as at 1 January 11.3 8.8 Operating experience 1.8 2.1 Non-operating experience including market movements 0.9 0.9 Other capital movements Disposals 0.1 0.1 Corporate restructuring 0.3 Distribution deals 0.8 0.4 Subordinated debt issuance redemption 0.4 1.1 Foreign currency translation impacts 0.1 0.4 Dividends 0.9 0.8 Model changes 0.3 0.1 Economic capital surplus as at 31 December 9.7 11.3 Note 1 Based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
During 2014 the movement in the Group economic surplus is driven by: Operating experience: generated by in-force business, new business written in 2014, the impact of non-market assumption changes and non-market experience variances over the year.
The 2013 operating experience result additionally benefited from specific fide-risking actions which were not repeated given the Groups overall economic capital strength: Non-operating experience: mainly arising from negative market experience during 2014, principally caused by the reduction in long-term interest rates in the UK: Other capital movements: a reduction in surplus from the repayment of subordinated debt, renewal of the bancassurance partnership agreement with Standard Chartered Bank, the negative capital effect of the domestication of the Hong Kong branch, an increase in surplus from the sale of the PruHealth and PruProtect businesses, positive foreign currency translation effects, and a reduction in surplus due to dividend payments in 2014: and Model changes: a negative impact to Group surplus for the estimated impact of evolving the liability discount rate for UK shareholderbacked annuity business from one based on a liquidity premium to one based on the matching adjustment, and other internal model refinements.
Analysis of Group Economic Capital Requirements 1 The table below shows the split of the Group Economic Capital Requirement by risk type.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 % of % of % of % of undiversified diversified undiversified diversified Economic Economic Economic Economic Capital Capital Capital Capital 2 2 2 2 Requirement Requirement Requirement Requirement Market 57% 66% 53% 64% Equity 15% 21% 15% 24% Credit 26% 39% 20% 37% Yields interest rates 12% 4% 13% 0% Other 4% 2% 5% 3% Insurance 33% 27% 36% 28% Mortality morbidity 6% 3% 8% 4% Lapse 16% 19% 19% 21% Longevity 11% 5% 9% 3% Operational expense 10% 7% 11% 8% Notes 1 The Group Economic Capital Requirement by risk type includes capital requirements in respect of Jacksons risk exposures, based on 250 per cent of the US RBC Company Action Level.
2 Based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
326 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Additional information Additional unaudited financial information Additional unaudited financial information continued II: Other information continued The Groups most material risk exposures are to financial markets, in particular to equities and credit, which we hold to generate a higher return on capital and a higher return for our policyholders over the long term.
The Group also has material insurance risk exposures including longevity risk from UK annuities, lapse risk across a wide range of products, and mortality and morbidity risk mainly arising from protection products written in Asia.
These risks diversify strongly with market risks, even after allowing for market-related policyholder behaviour, thereby increasing the return on capital which can be earned from the balanced mix of risks.
A brief description of the most material risks is set out below: The Groups exposure to equities mainly arises from UK shareholder transfers linked to policyholder funds partially offset by economic equity hedges and from future fund management charges on unit-linked funds in Asia.
The equity exposure arising from Jacksons variable annuity business is mostly hedged: The Group also has significant exposure to credit risk, mainly from the UK annuity portfolio and from Jacksons fixed annuity credit portfolio.
Credit exposures across the Group are carefully monitored and managed as part of the Groups risk management framework: The Group is exposed to movements in yields interest rates : while falling interest rates increase the risks arising from policyholder guarantees in with-profits funds and variable annuities, falling interest rates also increase the value of future insurance profits: The most material insurance risk exposures arise from UK longevity risk, and lapse, mortality and morbidity risk in Asia: and the Group is also exposed to expense and operational risk, which is closely monitored and managed through internal control processes.
Reconciliation of IFRS equity to economic available capital To aid understanding, the amount representing the Groups available capital under the economic capital basis is reconciled to the Groups IFRS shareholders equity in the table below: 1 Reconciliation of IFRS equity to economic available capital 2014 bn 2013 bn IFRS shareholders' equity at 31 December 11.8 9.7 Adjustment to restate US insurance entities onto a US Risk Based Capital basis 1.1 0.6 Remove DAC, goodwill and intangibles 3.5 2.7 Add subordinated-debt treated as economic available capital 3.7 3.8 Impact of risk margin 4.7 3.5 Add value of  4.0 4.1 Other liability valuation differences 9.0 9.3 Increase in value of net deferred tax liabilities resulting from valuation differences above 0.9 1.3 Other 0.4 0.3 Economic available capital at 31 December 17.9 18.5 Note 1 Based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority.
The key items of reconciliation are: 1.1 billion 2013: 0.6 billion represents the adjustment required to the Groups shareholders funds in order to convert Jacksons contribution from an IFRS basis to the local statutory valuation basis which underpins the US Risk Based Capital regime: 3.5 billion 2013: 2.7 billion due to the removal of DAC, goodwill and intangibles from the IFRS balance sheet: 3.7 billion 2013: 3.8 billion due to the addition of subordinated debt which is treated as available capital on an economic basis but as a liability under IFRS: 4.7 billion 2013: 3.5 billion due to the inclusion of a risk margin which is not required under IFRS: 4.0 billion 2013: 4.1 billion due to the inclusion of the value of future shareholder transfers from with-profits business on the economic balance sheet in the UK and Asia, which is excluded from the determination of the Groups IFRS shareholders funds: 9.0 billion 2013: 9.3 billion due to differences in insurance valuation requirements between economic capital and IFRS, with available capital partially capturing the economic value of in-force business which is excluded from IFRS: and 0.9 billion 2013: 1.3 billion due to the impact on the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the other valuation differences noted above.
Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 327 Sensitivity analysis Stress testing this economic capital position gives the following results as at 31 December 2014: An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by 0.6 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 214 per cent: An instantaneous 40 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by 2.2 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 195 per cent: A 50 basis points reduction in interest rates subject to a floor of zero would reduce surplus by 1.4 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 195 per cent: A 100 basis points increase in interest rates would increase surplus by 1.8 billion and increase the economic solvency ratio to 254 per cent: and 1 A 100 basis points increase in credit spreads with 15 per cent downgrades in the UK annuity portfolio would reduce surplus by 2.1 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 190 per cent.
These sensitivity results are shown before the impact of potential management actions to fide-risk the exposures of shareholder funds.
Even before such management actions are allowed for, the results demonstrate the resilience of the economic capital position following large falls in equity markets, sizeable reductions in yields relative to very low starting yields and a severe credit event.
The adverse impact of falling equity markets mainly results from a reduction in the value of with-profits shareholder transfers and future fund management charges in the UK and Asia.
Equity hedging reduces the impact of these exposures and a dynamic equity hedging programme is also in place to manage the equity risk arising in Jacksons variable annuities business.
The adverse impact of a fall in yields largely arises from a decrease in the value of future with-profits shareholder transfers and an increase in the size of risk margins.
Falling yields also increases the value of the Groups external debt, reducing the Group surplus.
However, these impacts are partially offset by an increase in the value of future insurance profits and changes in the value of hedging assets.
An increase in defaults and downgrades adversely impacts on the UK annuity credit book although the business is much less sensitive to credit spreads under the matching adjustment framework.
Jackson is not exposed to credit spread widening on a US RBC basis but an increase in defaults in the Jackson credit book would have a negative impact on the Group capital position and is reflected in the credit stress test above.
Statement of independent review The methodology, assumptions and overall result have been subject to examination by KPMG LLP.
Note 1 For UK annuity business, the matching adjustment is intended to significantly reduce the sensitivity of surplus to credit spreads.
The UK annuity credit sensitivity is therefore applied as 15 per cent of the portfolio downgrading, combined with an increase in credit spread stress of 88 basis points which in total is commensurate with a 100 basis point credit spread stress.
For Jackson, a 10x increase in expected defaults is applied in line with IGD sensitivities since credit spreads do not directly affect the US RBC result.
