Financial statements D: Other notes P Pr ru ud fide en nt ti ia al l p pl lc c A Ann nnu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 14 4 2 25 59 9 D4:   On 5 February 2015, the Group announced that it had completed the sale of its closed book life insurance business in Japan, as described further in note D1 b. Finaldividend The 2014 final dividend approved by the Board of Directors after 31 December 2014 is as described in note B7.
D5:  a  The principal subsidiary undertakings those undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the directors, principally affected the Groups results or financial position of the Group at 31 December 2014 are disclosed in note 5 Investments of the Company of the parent company financial statements.
Details of all Prudential subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next Annual Returns of Prudential plc filed with the UK Registrar of Companies.
b  Certain Group subsidiaries and joint ventures are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may transfer in the form of cash dividends or otherwise to the parent company.
Under UK company law, UK companies can only declare dividends if they have sufficient distributable reserves.
Further, UK insurance companies are required to maintain solvency margins in accordance with the rules of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
The Group UK asset management company, M&G Investment Management Ltd is also required to maintain capital in accordance with regulatory requirements before making any distribution to the parent company.
Jackson is subject to state laws that limit the dividends payable to its parent company based on statutory capital and surplus and prior year earnings.
Dividends in excess of these limitations require prior regulatory approval.
The Groups subsidiaries and joint ventures in Asia may remit dividends to the Group, in general, provided the statutory insurance fund meets the capital adequacy standard required under local statutory regulations and has sufficient distributable reserves.
The Group capital position statement for life assurance businesses is set out in note C11.1, showing the available capital reflecting the excess of regulatory basis over liabilities for each fund or group of companies determined by reference to the local regulation of the subsidiaries.
In addition, disclosure is also provided in note C11.1 of the local capital requirement of the principal funds and companies.
D6:  Joint ventures represent arrangements where the controlling parties through contractual or other agreement have the rights to the net assets of the arrangements.
The Group has shareholder-backed joint venture insurance and asset management businesses in China with CITIC Group, and in India with ICICI Bank.
In addition, there is an asset management joint venture in Hong Kong with Bank of China International Holdings Limited BOCI and Takaful general and life insurance joint venture in Malaysia.
The Group has various joint ventures relating to property investments held by the PAC with-profits fund.
The results of these joint ventures are reflected in the movement in the unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits funds and therefore do not affect shareholders results.
As a consequence of adoption of IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements from 1 January 2013, the Groups joint ventures are accounted for by using the equity method.
For these operations the net of tax results are included in the Groups profit before tax.
The investments in these joint ventures have the same accounting year end as the Group, except for joint ventures in India.
Although these entities have reporting periods ending 31 March, 12 months of financial information up to 31 December is recorded.
Accordingly, the information covers the same period as that of the Group.
The Groups associates, which are also accounted for under the equity method, include PPM South Africa and PruHealth until its sale in 2014, see note D1.
In addition, the Group has investments in Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, unit trusts, funds holding collateralised debt obligations, property unit trusts and venture capital investments of the PAC with-profits funds where the Group has significant influence.
As allowed under IAS 28, these investments are accounted for on a fair value through profit or loss basis.
The aggregate fair value of associates accounted for at fair value through profit or loss where there are published price quotations is approximately 1.2 billion at 31 December 2014 2013: 0.5 billion.
The Groups share of the profits, net of related tax, and carrying amount of interest in joint ventures and associates, which are equity accounted as shown in the consolidated income statement comprises the following: Jointventures Associates 2014 m 2013 m 2014 m 2013 m Shareholder-backed business 162 52 12 7 PAC with-profits fund prior to offsetting effect in movement in unallocated surplus 129 88 Total 291 140 12 7
