A h s t s : g e s t n e o t e m a p r t t t a S i s n m d n a i e o g s t i e e d n l m U i u e n b t : 18 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our strategy and operating principles Our strategy is designed to create sustainable economic value for our customers and our shareholders.
It is focused on three long-term opportunities: The significant protection gap and investment needs of the Asian middle class: The transition of US baby boomers into retirement: and The UK savings gap and ageing population in need of returns and income.
Balanced metrics and disclosures Focus on Disciplined Sustainable customers and capital value for our distribution allocation stakeholders Proactive risk management Our strategy is underpinned by a set of key operating principles Focus on customers Balanced metrics Disciplined capital Proactive risk management and distribution and disclosures allocation Balance sheet strength and We believe that in order to do well We aim to have clarity and We rigorously allocate capital to proactive risk management enable for our shareholders we must first consistency internally and externally the highest-return products and us to make good our promises to do good for our customers.
Hence, in the performance indicators that geographical locations with the customers and are therefore key customers are at the centre of our drive our businesses.
Alongside this shortest payback periods, in line drivers of long-term value creation operating principles.
we develop our financial disclosures with our risk appetite.
This has had and relative performance.
We have Our products are designed to enable our stakeholders to fairly a positive and significant impact.
continuously strengthened our to provide peace of mind to our assess our long-term performance.
Over the last five years, our new capital position since 2008, in spite of the challenging macroeconomic customers, whether that be in We have three objectives: business profits have increased by relation to saving for retirement or To demonstrate how we 48 per cent on an actual exchange environment that followed.
Management actions that have insuring against the risks of illness, generate profits under the rate basis even though we death or critical life events.
different accounting regimes: for invested 6 per cent less capital.
been taken over this period include: T he sale of our capital-intensive Satisfied customers are a key driver example, by analysing our IFRS This has, in turn, transformed the of our growth as they become our profit by source as set out in the capital dynamics of our Group: for Taiwan agency business in 2009, improving our IGD advocates, recommending our Chief Financial Officers report: example, the free capital generated products and services to their To show how we think about from our existing life and asset capital position: The establishment of friends and families.
capital allocation via measures management operations reached Distribution plays a key role that highlight the returns we 3.2 billion in 2014 compared to 2.2 billion of credit default 1 reserves in our ability to reach, attract and generate on capital invested in 2.3 billion five years ago on an in the UK annuity retain these valued customers new business, including actual exchange rate basis.
This business: and across our regions.
Building out internal rates of return, payback transformation enabled our C ontrolling sales of US variable and diversifying our distribution periods and new business business operations to remit annuities in a manner which capabilities in order to reach a profitability: and 1,482 million to the Group in appropriately balances value, growing customer base will help To highlight the cash 2014, nearly double the level of volume, capital generation and ensure that we fully capitalise on generation of our business, remittance five years ago.
the opportunities available to us in which over time is the ultimate each of our regions.
