2 260 60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financialstatements  D: Othernotescontinued D6:  There is no other comprehensive income in the joint ventures and associates.
There have been no unrecognised share of losses of a joint venture or associate that the Group has stopped recognising in the total income.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments to which the Group is exposed nor does the Group have any significant contingent liabilities or capital commitments in relation to its interests in the joint ventures.
D7:  Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
In addition, the Company has transactions and outstanding balances with certain unit trusts, Open-Ended Investment Companies OEICs, collateralised debt obligations and similar entities which are not consolidated and where a Group company acts as manager which are regarded as related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
The balances are included in the Groups statement of financial position sheet at fair value or amortised cost in accordance with their IAS 39 classifications.
The transactions are included in the income statement and include amounts paid on issue of shares or units, amounts received on cancellation of shares or units and paid in respect of the periodic charge and administration fee.
Further, following the adoption of IFRS 11 in 2013, the Groups investments in joint ventures are now accounted for on an equity method basis.
There are no material transactions between these joint ventures and other Group companies.
Executive officers and directors of the Company may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity products marketed by Group companies in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons.
In 2014 and 2013, other transactions with directors were not deemed to be significant both by virtue of their size and in the context of the directors financial positions.
All of these transactions are on terms broadly equivalent to those that prevail in arms length transactions.
Apart from these transactions with directors, no director had interests in shares, transactions or arrangements that require disclosure, other than those given in the directors remuneration report.
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note B3.3.
D8: Commitments  The Group leases various offices to conduct its business.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2014 m 2013 m Future minimum lease payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due during the following periods: Not later than 1 year 89 110 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 214 308 Later than 5 years 105 333 Future minimum sub-lease rentals received for non-cancellable operating leases for land and buildings 17 20 Minimum lease rental payments included in consolidated income statement 95 92 In addition, the Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters.
The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2014 were 232 million 2013: 92 million.
