262 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes on the parent company financial statements Notes on the parent company financial statements 1 Nature of operations Prudential plc the Company is a parent holding company.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries collectively the Group, is an international financial services group with its principal operations in Asia, the US and the UK.
In Asia, the Group has operations in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and other countries.
In the US, the Groups principal subsidiary is Jackson National Life Insurance Company.
In the UK, the Group operates through its subsidiaries, primarily The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, Prudential Retirement Income Limited and M&G Investment Management Limited.
2 Basis of preparation The financial statements of the Company, which comprise the balance sheet and related notes, are prepared in accordance with Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from presenting its own profit and loss account.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standards FRS and Statements of Standard Accounting Practice SSAP.
The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement on the basis that its cash flow is included within the cash flow statement in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption within FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, from the requirements of this standard, because the Companys results are included in the publicly available consolidated financial statements of the Group that include disclosures that comply with IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is equivalent to FRS 29.
3 Significant accounting policies Shares in subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiary undertakings are shown at the lower of cost and estimated realisable value.
Loans to subsidiary undertakings Loans to subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost, less provisions.
Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are held to manage certain macroeconomic exposures.
Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs, and subsequently accounted for on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Under the effective interest method, the difference between the redemption value of the borrowing and the initial proceeds, net of transaction costs, is amortised through the profit and loss account to the date of maturity, or, for subordinated debt, over the expected life of the instrument.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Share premium The difference between the proceeds received on issue of shares and the nominal value of the shares issued is credited to the share premium account.
Foreign currency translation Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, including borrowings that have been used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in overseas subsidiaries, are translated at year end exchange rates.
The impact of these currency translations is recorded within the profit and loss account for the year.
Financial statements Parent company Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 263 Tax Current tax expense is charged or credited to operations based upon amounts estimated to be payable or recoverable as a result of taxable operations for the current year.
To the extent that losses of an individual UK company are not offset in any one year, they can be carried back for one year or carried forward indefinitely to be offset against profits arising from the same company.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in accordance with the provisions of FRS 19, Deferred tax.
The Company has chosen not to apply the option available of recognising such assets and liabilities on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money.
Except as set out in FRS 19, deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The Groups UK subsidiaries each file separate tax returns.
In accordance with UK tax legislation, where one domestic UK company is a 75 per cent owned subsidiary of another UK company, or both are 75 per cent owned subsidiaries of a common parent, the companies are considered to be within the same UK tax group.
For companies within the same tax group, trading profits and losses arising in the same accounting period may be offset for the purposes of determining current and deferred taxes.
Pensions The Company assumes a portion of the pension surplus or deficit of the Groups main pension scheme, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme PSPS and applied the requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits as amended in December 2006 to its interest in the PSPS surplus or deficit.
Further details are disclosed in note 9.
A pension surplus or deficit is recorded as the difference between the present value of the scheme liabilities and the fair value of the scheme assets.
The Companys share of pension surplus is recognised to the extent that the Company is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes of the Prudential Group are subject to a full triennial actuarial valuation using the projected unit method.
Estimated future cash flows are then discounted at a high-quality corporate bond rate, adjusted to allow for the difference in duration between the bond index and the pension liabilities where appropriate, to determine their present value.
These calculations are performed by independent actuaries.
The aggregate of the actuarially determined service costs of the currently employed personnel and the unwind of the discount on liabilities at the start of the period, gains and losses on settlements and curtailments, less the expected investment return on the scheme assets at the start of the period, is recognised in the profit and loss account.
To the extent that part or all of the Companys interest in the pension surplus is not recognised as an asset, the unrecognised surplus is initially applied to extinguish any past service costs, losses on settlements or curtailments that would otherwise be included in the profit and loss account.
Next, the expected investment return on the schemes assets is restricted so that it does not exceed the total of the current service cost, interest cost and any increase in the recoverable surplus.
Any further adjustment for the unrecognised surplus is treated as an actuarial gain or loss.
Actuarial gains and losses as a result of the changes in assumptions, the difference between actual and expected investment return on scheme assets and experience variances are recorded in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Actuarial gains and losses also include adjustment for unrecognised pension surplus as described above.
Share-based payment The Group offers share award and option plans for certain key employees and a Save As You Earn SAYE plan for all UK and certain overseas employees.
The share-based payment plans operated by the Group are mainly equity-settled plans with a few cash-settled plans.
Under FRS 20 Share-based Payment, where the Company, as the parent company, has the obligation to settle the options or awards of its equity instruments to employees of its subsidiary undertakings, and such share-based payments are accounted for as equitysettled in the Group financial statements, the Company records an increase in the investment in subsidiary undertakings for the value of the share options and awards granted with a corresponding credit entry recognised directly in equity.
The value of the share options and awards granted is based upon the fair value of the options and awards at the grant date, the vesting period and the vesting conditions.
