Capita plc 114 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 25 February 2015.
Capita plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
The principal activities of the Group are given in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 66.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies Underlying profit The Group separately presents intangible amortisation, acquisition contingent consideration movements, business disposals and closures, acquisition expenses, movements in the mark to market valuation of certain financial instruments, and specific non-recurring items in the income statement which, in the Directors judgement, need to be disclosed separately see notes 4 and 5 by virtue of their size and incidence in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the Directors to make judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported income and expense during the reported periods.
Although these judgements and assumptions are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: the measurement of revenue and resulting profit recognition the Group makes use of estimates to determine revenue in respect of percentage complete long term and construction contracts see e and f below : the measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill in a business combination this involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate: the measurement and impairment of goodwill the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated utilising estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate see note 15 : the measurement of defined benefit obligations this requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, future pension increases and the selection of a suitable discount rate see note 32 : and the measurement of provisions reflects managements assessment of the probable outflow of economic benefits resulting from an existing obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a case by case basis and involve judgement as regards the final timing and quantum of any financial outlay see note 25. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of Capita plc and all of its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union, IFRS and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The parent Company continues to apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its individual financial statements and these are contained on pages 167 to 174.
In 2015, the parent company will be electing to apply FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework in response to the change in financial reporting standards in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
FRS101 applies IFRS as adopted by the European Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under IFRS where certain financial instruments and the pension assets have been measured at fair value.
The carrying value of recognised assets and liabilities that are hedged are adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks that are being hedged.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million m except when otherwise indicated.
In accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
c Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Capita plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Adjustments are made to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between IFRS and local GAAP.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which Capita plc has control and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the consideration received and the carrying amount of the assets including goodwill disposed of.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
