Capita plc 82 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 83 Corporate governance statement continued for the parent company financial Approval of the annual accounts Statement of Directors statements, state whether applicable UK Directors responsibility statement responsibilities in respect Accounting Standards have been followed, We, the Directors of the Company, of the annual report and the subject to any material departures confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements disclosed and explained in the parent the financial statements prepared The Directors are responsible for preparing company financial statements in accordance with the applicable set of the annual report and the Group and prepare the financial statements accounting standards, give a true and fair parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is view of the assets, liabilities, financial in accordance with applicable law and inappropriate to presume that the Group position and profit or loss of the Company regulations.
and the parent company will continue and the undertakings included in the in business.
consolidation as a whole Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company the Directors report, including content The Directors are responsible for keeping financial statements for each financial by reference, includes a fair review of the adequate accounting records that are year.
Under that law they are required to development and performance of the sufficient to show and explain the parent prepare the Group financial statements business and the position of the Issuer companys transactions and disclose in accordance with IFRSs as adopted and the undertakings included in the with reasonable accuracy at any time by the EU and applicable law and have consolidation taken as a whole, together the financial position of the parent elected to prepare the parent company with a description of the principal risks company and enable them to ensure that financial statements in accordance with and uncertainties that they face.
its financial statements comply with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable Companies Act 2006.
They have general law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Directors statement responsibility for taking such steps as are Practice.
on the annual report reasonably open to them to safeguard the The Directors consider the annual report assets of the Group and to prevent and Election to apply FRS101 Reduced taken as whole, to be fair, balanced and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure Framework understandable and that it provides the The parent company continues to information necessary for the shareholders Under applicable law and regulations, apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its to assess the Companys performance, the Directors are also responsible for individual financial statements and these business model and strategy.
preparing a strategic report, Directors are contained on pages 167 to 174.
In report, Directors remuneration report 2015, the parent company will be electing and corporate governance statement to apply FRS101 Reduced Disclosure On behalf of the Board that complies with that law and those Framework in response to the change in regulations.
financial reporting standards in the UK and Francesca Todd Republic of Ireland.
FRS101 applies IFRS Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for the as adopted by the European Union with 25 February 2015 maintenance and integrity of the corporate certain disclosure exemptions.
and financial information included on Capita plc the Companys website.
Legislation in Under company law the Directors must Registered in England and Wales the UK governing the preparation and not approve the financial statements No.
2081330 dissemination of financial statements may unless they are satisfied that they give a differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and Details of the principal risk categories can of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU
