Capita plc 169 Strategic report Governance Accounts Accounts Capita plc 168 Capita plc 169 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies 1 Accounting policies continued a Basis of preparation i Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
There were no new A separate note dealing with the disclosures of FRS 29 has not been presented as provided by paragraph 2D b of FRS 29.
The consolidated financial Financial Reporting Standards issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC which were required to be adopted in the year.
statements include the required disclosures of IFRS 7 for the Group.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by Section 408 of the j Derivative financial instruments Companies Act 2006.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and b Tangible fixed assets foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular Computer equipment 3 to 10 years risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 to 5 years In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit c Investments and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
and recognised in the profit and loss account.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In relation to cash flow hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account The carrying values of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values may when the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or not be recoverable.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the amounts taken to d Pension schemes equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking of the Company, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year-end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
e Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful k Share based payments economic lives.
The Company operates a number of executive and employee share schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over Fair value is determined using an option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other the lease term.
than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
f Deferred taxation No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, taxation, with the following exceptions: At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and provision is made for taxation on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions, the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in cumulative expense since dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the profit and loss account, with a corresponding entry in equity.
likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to taxation only where the replacement assets are sold Subsidiary undertakings of the Company reimburse the Company through the intercompany account for charges attributable to their employees provision is made for deferred taxation that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, participating in the Companys share schemes.
at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable 2 Deferred taxation taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
2014 2013 m m Deferred taxation is measured on an undiscounted basis at the taxation rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences The deferred taxation included in the balance sheet is as follows: reverse, based on taxation rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Accelerated capital allowances 0.6 0.7 g Foreign currencies Share based payments 3.3 3.2 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered Cash flow hedges 3.9 6.4 by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at Fixed rate interest rate swaps 12.7 5.3 the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of Provisions 0.8 0.7 differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which Included in debtors note 9 20.1 14.9 are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
h National Insurance on share option gains National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year-end has been grossed up and shown as a provision and a receivable on the balance sheet.
