Capita plc 14 Strategic report Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets Exploring the drivers across the customer and business process management BPM market and the growth sectors within it.
Our core focus is on transformational Ovum has again ranked Capita as the Creating organic growth across deals within the customer management number one BPM vendor by revenue, existing, emerging and potential and BPM market across the UK with 26.9% market share in 2014 new markets and Ireland.
2013: 24.9%, a greater share than the From our entry point in local government rest of the top ten vendors combined.
in 1984, we have deliberately diversified During 2014, Capita enlisted Ovum to Our revenue split continued to be spread our market reach, giving us the flexibility review the total addressable UK market for between public and private sectors at 48% to target the right opportunities, shifting customer management and BPM.
As we continue to our focus depending on the level of research estimates that Capitas total UK secure further growth in the private sector, activity and potential in each market addressable market is 129bn per year, the shift is in line with our expectations we operate in.
of which only 13bn was outsourced in that Capitas revenues will reflect the 2014 2013: 12.4bn.
Of this 13bn, 72% current market opportunity over time.
Our business model means we can was in the private sector and 28% in the bring together the right resources and public sector.
1 capabilities to meet the demands of our clients across a wide range of sectors.
This approach has allowed us to grow from a company with 320 employees and a revenue of 25m in 1991 to a FTSE 100 company with over 68,000 employees and revenue of 4,372m in 2014.
UK customer management and BPM market pa Our business model means we can bring together the right resources and capabilities to meet the demands of our clients from a growing range of sectors.
Total potential market: Total outsourced today: 13bn 129bn Private sector Public sector 72% 28% 1 Ovum methodology: Ovums market sizing and methodology was firstly to identify the composition of the labour market in the UK.
Secondly, assumptions were made on how big a proportion of jobs in each occupational level could potentially be outsourced.
As it is unlikely that all job functions would be outsourced, the following caps were applied: a maximum of 25% for managers and senior officials and a maximum of 40% for all other occupational levels.
Using various sources of information, average salary levels were then applied.
Other costs were taken into account along with the assumption that outsourcing would bring a reduction in cost base.
Capita plc 15 Strategic report Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets 1984 Pre 2000 Post 2000 Post 2010 2015 onwards Exploring the drivers across the customer and business process management BPM market and Local government Local government Local government Local government Local government the growth sectors within it.
Central government Central government Central government Central government Education Education Education Education Insurance Insurance Insurance Our core focus is on transformational Ovum has again ranked Capita as the Insurance Creating organic growth across deals within the customer management number one BPM vendor by revenue, Financial services Financial services Financial services existing, emerging and potential and BPM market across the UK with 26.9% market share in 2014 Life and pensions Life and pensions Life and pensions new markets and Ireland.
2013: 24.9%, a greater share than the From our entry point in local government Health Health Health rest of the top ten vendors combined.
in 1984, we have deliberately diversified Other private sector Other private sector Other private sector During 2014, Capita enlisted Ovum to Our revenue split continued to be spread our market reach, giving us the flexibility Retail Retail review the total addressable UK market for between public and private sectors at 48% to target the right opportunities, shifting Telecoms and utilities Telecoms and utilities customer management and BPM.
As we continue to our focus depending on the level of research estimates that Capitas total UK secure further growth in the private sector, Justice and Justice and activity and potential in each market emergency services emergency services addressable market is 129bn per year, the shift is in line with our expectations we operate in.
of which only 13bn was outsourced in that Capitas revenues will reflect the Defence Defence 2014 2013: 12.4bn.
Retail mortgage Retail mortgage Our business model means we can was in the private sector and 28% in the administration administration bring together the right resources and public sector.
1 Agriculture capabilities to meet the demands of our Extending our reach, through new clients across a wide range of sectors.
Science services This approach has allowed us to grow markets and new market segments Banking from a company with 320 employees and Northern Europe a revenue of 25m in 1991 to a FTSE 100 company with over 68,000 employees and revenue of 4,372m in 2014.
During the year, we have continued Understanding our markets Market drivers UK customer management and BPM market pa to explore new and emerging markets We resource our business development There are broader changes in the way that where we believe there are opportunities teams with market experts who consumers value the products and services for further organic growth for Capita.
understand the unique challenges and delivered to them that increasingly play These have included geographic reach opportunities facing the sectors we into Capitas strength and expertise in into Germany, and further geographic work in.
We are constantly in ongoing managing customer experiences and expansion in the Republic of Ireland as dialogue with existing and potential delivering customer transformation.
well as vertical expansion into mortgage clients, listening to their challenges According to research conducted by processing and the agriculture sector.
We also Ipsos MORI, experience is the new brand Our business model means we can bring together the continually look for changing market with product or service quality now taken right resources and capabilities to meet the demands The competitive landscape and company specific dynamics that for granted, how a product and service of our clients from a growing range of sectors.
Our continued growth into new areas may act as a catalyst for new outsourcing makes us feel matters more than mere means Capita operates amongst a diverse opportunities, where we can improve our functionality.
According to MORI, data Total peer group, with competitors differing clients services whilst still providing value protection is also increasingly important potential market: Total depending on the market we are engaged for money.
to customers with personal data safety outsourced today: in.
We believe our breadth and scale of being increasingly used in purchase operations and ability to deliver innovative The development in digital technologies decision making.
13bn 129bn solutions, coupled with our robust over recent years, and the increasing approach to governance and business choice and power being delivered to end management, stand us apart from others customers has provided a further catalyst in the BPM landscape, enabling us to for us to help our clients improve their cement our market leading position.
We have a series of Private sector Public sector specialist practices providing expertise in areas including digital, behavioural 72% 28% science, analytics, user experience and service design, which all help to keep our customers at the forefront of their markets.
1 Ovum methodology: Ovums market sizing and methodology was firstly to identify the composition of the labour market in the UK.
Capita plc 16 Strategic report Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets continued Established markets: 2014 revenue by vertical market Public sector Local government The latest local government funding settlement will see 2.6bn cut from local authority budgets in 201516, continuing pressure on local authority finances.
This continues to drive a need to achieve efficient operations, which often involves accessing the skills of a specialist third party.
Concurrently, there is significant growth in the demand for adult social care services Public sector Private sector and associated legislative change which 48% 52% is creating pressure to bring professional management disciplines to bear, areas Capita is well placed to deliver in.
With central funding being reduced, Public sector 2014 2013 Private sector 2014 2013 there is also an increased recognition of 1.
Other private sector 21% 21% the role for commercialisation of council assets and services to develop revenue 2.
Life and pensions 10% 13% streams, with a role for joint activity 3.
Retail, utilities and telecoms 12% 8% and sometimes actual public sector 4.
Financial services 7% 7% subsidiary partnerships with commercial organisations who can bring investment, 5.
Insurance 2% 3% specialist expertise as well as product, 6.
Defence 3% 3% pricing, sales and marketing knowledge.
Central government Public bodies will need to innovate and Health Aside from any areas that may be transform their services by drawing Funding pressures are expected to ring-fenced at the outset of the next on new capabilities, many of which be pronounced in the NHS, with NHS parliament, public sector budgets are Capita is well positioned to provide.
Englands Five Year Forward View widely expected to be subjected to Delivering transformation through suggesting that its 30bn funding further significant annual reductions.
collaboration and partnering plays to challenge will be met by 22bn of NHS The Government has stated it plans to Capitas strengths as we can bring new savings and 8bn of additional funding.
save 2530bn by 2020, but to do so commercial models, initiatives and will require more innovative approaches expertise to improve services, create jobs As a consequence, NHS providers as future savings will be more difficult to and support economic regeneration.
desperately need to update their achieve.
A recent Cabinet Office paper1 technology to help staff work more outlines the requirement on government Building on the success of AXELOS, our productively, but have no way to fund to be more creative with how it delivers public sector subsidiary partnership with it except through resources released public services, from a stronger push the Cabinet Office, and The Defence from areas such as surplus property, an on digital technology to introducing Infrastructure Organisation DIO, we approach supported by NHS England.
structural and transformational reform expect more opportunities to emerge to Capita is positioned well to deliver the in government departments, agencies create open and transparent partnership combined technology and property offer and public bodies.
arrangements with a focus on shared risk that NHS Trusts are seeking.
and reward, which will help government Irrespective of the type of government secure greater commercial value from We are also well placed to support that will be formed as a result of the 2015 public assets.
We also expect to see the newly implemented Clinical general election and that there may be a greater opportunities to help government Commissioning Groups CCGs in delivering short interruption in the flow of services deliver on its digital and channel health and social care integration as we not being procured from the supplier market, shift objectives.
only support NHS commissioners but also the core pressures to improve public work with local authorities.
services and reduce delivery costs remain.
The large, central health organisations such as NHS England, also now need to match the savings being demanded of frontline NHS services.
1 Efficiency and Reform in the next Parliament.
Capita plc 17 Strategic report Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets continued Justice & emergency services Life & pensions the use of social media and customer Established markets: 2014 revenue by vertical market Police and Justice services will remain The life industry is coming to terms with analytics.
We are ideally positioned to Public sector under pressure and there is a continued the impact of announcements in the 2014 support these activities and build on our Local government drive for collaboration in and between budget that give providers an opportunity experience with clients such as the John The latest local government funding services as they seek cost savings and to refresh their proposition set to reflect Lewis Partnership and Debenhams.
settlement will see 2.6bn cut from local operational efficiencies.
a new, more engaged lifetime journey of authority budgets in 201516, continuing savings accumulation and fide-cumulation.
Utilities pressure on local authority finances.
Ministers across Government recognise Many of the major pan-European This continues to drive a need to achieve that there is significant replication and Regulatory changes such as the Retail utilities have high levels of debt and efficient operations, which often involves wasted effort caused by the inability to get Distribution Review and the EU Gender see outsourcing as a means of reducing accessing the skills of a specialist third party.
access to and share important information Directive are having a significant impact on costs and improving efficiency Ovum.
Concurrently, there is significant growth in from all responding agencies dealing with the UK life & pensions industry and many Utilities are expected to pursue strategies the demand for adult social care services Public sector Private sector the serious interventions which require firms are looking for guidance, both around to transform customer experiences as and associated legislative change which multi-agency collaboration.
This focus how best to respond to developments, and new technological innovations such as 48% 52% is creating pressure to bring professional will help to drive the collaborative on how to mitigate the costs of compliance.
smart metering shape the market and management disciplines to bear, areas transformational agenda which we Automatic enrolment into workplace the requirement for agility increases.
Capita is well placed to deliver in.
are ideally placed to help deliver.
pension schemes has also increased costs Capita will be able to leverage both for providers, which they will look our infrastructure and customer With central funding being reduced, Public sector 2014 2013 Private sector 2014 2013 Education to offset through reductions expertise to maximise our sector there is also an increased recognition of 1.
Other private sector 21% 21% In common with other public services, elsewhere.
Capita is well growth from supporting the the role for commercialisation of council the education budget is under pressure.
placed to assist organisations build of new power sources assets and services to develop revenue 2.
Life and pensions 10% 13% The latest spending round saw the in changing their service to transforming the streams, with a role for joint activity Common drivers 3.
Retail, utilities and telecoms 12% 8% Government announce that the schools models, embracing digital customer experience.
and sometimes actual public sector in our markets: budget would be cut by a further 1%, in initiatives and reducing 4.
Financial services 7% 7% subsidiary partnerships with commercial real terms, in 201516 driving the need their cost bases to address Water retail competition organisations who can bring investment, 5.
Alongside this, however, these changes.
in the non-household specialist expertise as well as product, 6.
Defence 3% 3% are reforms that have meant that schools space is also due to go live pricing, sales and marketing knowledge.
now have greater discretion over how they Retail in April 2017 which will spend their budgets.
The introduction of In retail, much of the require significant change Central government Public bodies will need to innovate and Health the academy system where institutions interest remains around within water companies.
Aside from any areas that may be transform their services by drawing Funding pressures are expected to Transformation have autonomy to select their own transforming customerThere are opportunities ring-fenced at the outset of the next on new capabilities, many of which be pronounced in the NHS, with NHS and modernisation suppliers for support functions is indicative facing functions, but for Capita both at the parliament, public sector budgets are Capita is well positioned to provide.
Englands Five Year Forward View of services of Governments desire to encourage there is also great centre of this, helping widely expected to be subjected to Delivering transformation through suggesting that its 30bn funding innovative approaches in the sector.
potential for outsourcing with central market further significant annual reductions.
collaboration and partnering plays to challenge will be met by 22bn of NHS activity around backoperations in supporting The Government has stated it plans to Capitas strengths as we can bring new savings and 8bn of additional funding.
Defence office processes such as market flows and within save 2530bn by 2020, but to do so commercial models, initiatives and In the defence sector, the MoD is undertaking finance and accounting water companies, as will require more innovative approaches expertise to improve services, create jobs As a consequence, NHS providers a major transformational exercise as it looks F&A, human resources they transform their as future savings will be more difficult to and support economic regeneration.
desperately need to update their to rebalance capabilities, improve equipment HR and supplyoperating models.
A recent Cabinet Office paper1 technology to help staff work more procurement and support and manage a chain management.
outlines the requirement on government Building on the success of AXELOS, our productively, but have no way to fund Service digitisation declining budget.
The 2015 Strategic Defence Telecoms to be more creative with how it delivers public sector subsidiary partnership with it except through resources released and Security Review SDSR will set the Driving this are some A key area of demand public services, from a stronger push the Cabinet Office, and The Defence from areas such as surplus property, an departments long term goals which will fundamental changes for services in recent on digital technology to introducing Infrastructure Organisation DIO, we approach supported by NHS England.
have a follow-on impact across the MoD and in the retail industry, years has come from structural and transformational reform expect more opportunities to emerge to Capita is positioned well to deliver the armed forces.
Capita will continue to focus on particularly with telecom operators looking in government departments, agencies create open and transparent partnership combined technology and property offer looking for opportunities to provide support the ongoing shift to for customer-facing and public bodies.
services and help the MoD to release value digital platforms and support services.
and reward, which will help government from their assets.
e-Commerce which are Irrespective of the type of government secure greater commercial value from We are also well placed to support Increased regulation forcing traditional retail This is unsurprising, and competition that will be formed as a result of the 2015 public assets.
We also expect to see the newly implemented Clinical powerhouses to change given the competitive Established markets: general election and that there may be a greater opportunities to help government Commissioning Groups CCGs in delivering how they deliver their nature of the market Private sector short interruption in the flow of services deliver on its digital and channel health and social care integration as we not products and address and the relative ease Across the private sector, we continue being procured from the supplier market, shift objectives.
only support NHS commissioners but also their customers.
with which customers are to see more emphasis on improving the core pressures to improve public work with local authorities.
end-customer experiences through services and reduce delivery costs remain.
As a result, retailers are Operators are looking better utilisation of digital technologies, The large, central health organisations more focused than ever for capabilities to help particularly in our growing and emerging such as NHS England, also now need to Maximising the value on customer retention, them manage customer markets.
As part of this, customer insight match the savings being demanded of of existing assets with many turning to engagement across a and analytics are playing a crucial role in frontline NHS services.
third parties to deliver number of channels, to aid developing new solutions that support improvements in customer retention and drive channel customer retention and sales.
services, including through shift to lower support costs.
Capita plc 18 Strategic report Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets continued We also see promise in the diversification this.
We are well positioned to support Our recent selection by the Department of many firms into areas such as digital financial institutions as they address for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs services, as the customer support vulnerable customers in both these areas, Defra to form a partnership to operate functions must also possess the skills managing the portfolios and transitioning the Food and Environment Research required to make the most of cross-sell customers into the providers more Agency FERA provides us with a strong and up-sell opportunities.
We have a good sustainable products.
platform for growth in this market.
track record of supporting clients like O2 with best of breed technology platforms, Banking We have a proven ability to combine to run and improve their customer services The dynamics of this market are changing professional technical capability with whilst the businesses enhance and expand rapidly, with a raft of challenger banks commercial expertise to deliver high value their digital service offering to customers.
The banks spun out of larger knowledge based services and we see the groups to satisfy regulators are also high value science services market as being Insurance attracting interest with their back to the ready for a similar approach.
Insurance companies continue to operate future approach to community banking.
in a highly competitive environment, The tier 1 banks are responding to this, but Germany resulting in a greater need for them some still have some way to go to regain Having built relationships and developed to focus on improving multi-channel public trust.
Banks are reshaping their potential opportunities with our UK experience to increase customer retention.
operating models to reflect the shifting clients northern European parent Where premium growth remains modest, channel preferences of their client base companies and subsidiaries, we have firms are focused on improving operational and to cope with the continuous increase recently acquired a number of customer efficiency and organisational flexibility, areas in compliance and regulation.
management businesses in the DACH Capita is well placed to help them address.
region to provide a platform for growth With this changing competitive in this new market for Capita.
The DACH Financial services environment, customer services is region has 110 million German speakers Financial services organisations margins therefore top of mind for retail banks, both and, with Germany the largest economy remain under pressure as business models as a means of retaining existing customers in Europe, offers an excellent opportunity and product offerings are becoming and as a differentiator that enables them for growth.
Many firms are looking to to attract new ones.
reduce costs by standardising processes, The German outsourced Customer rationalise products and automate Science services Management and BPM market in 2014 functions across the front, middle, and Capita sees exciting opportunities to build was estimated to be worth 19.5bn and is back-office.
Regulatory changes to the a high-end presence in the science services expected to grow by 6% annually to 20181.
Governments Funding for Lending Scheme market, which we estimate to be worth FLS will make it easier for businesses to 2.4bn per annum.
borrow, with the potential to stimulate demand for commercial mortgages.
As well as improving operational efficiencies, Capita is well placed to help German customer management and BPM market pa address the challenges bought by digital disruption and multi-channel operations, Ovums market sizing and methodology increasingly viewed as a key differentiator for Germany followed the same principles in the market.
as that applied to the UK market.
See page 14 Emerging markets Mortgages Capita has extended its capabilities beyond commercial mortgages Total potential administration to residential mortgage market: administration.
The market for mortgages Total outsourced is subdued, reflecting fragile consumer today: 2 confidence.
The stamp duty changes 1 19.5bn announced in 2014 should help to 266bn stimulate the market, but interest rate rises are expected in 2015 and banks are starting to gear up to respond.
Banks have been reasonably successful in addressing the pre-2020 cohort of interest-only mortgage holders, but more needs to be done on those with longer 1 Source: Nelson Hall.
maturity products in order to mitigate 2 Source: Ovum.
Capita plc 19 Strategic Strategic r report eport Governance Accounts Operating in growth markets continued Case Acquisition of study SouthWestern We also see promise in the diversification this.
We are well positioned to support Our recent selection by the Department The purchase of SouthWestern has provided Capita with of many firms into areas such as digital financial institutions as they address for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs services, as the customer support vulnerable customers in both these areas, Defra to form a partnership to operate an established foothold in the Irish BPO market, building functions must also possess the skills managing the portfolios and transitioning the Food and Environment Research on our existing financial services operations in the country.
required to make the most of cross-sell customers into the providers more Agency FERA provides us with a strong and up-sell opportunities.
track record of supporting clients like O2 The Irish BPO market is estimated to be The acquisition has also allowed Capita to begin with best of breed technology platforms, Banking We have a proven ability to combine worth 770m of which approximately pursuing new outsourcing opportunities in Ireland: to run and improve their customer services The dynamics of this market are changing professional technical capability with 300m is in SouthWesterns core services of with SouthWesterns reputation providing a whilst the businesses enhance and expand rapidly, with a raft of challenger banks commercial expertise to deliver high value customer management, finance and accounting foundation from which to drive interest in services their digital service offering to customers.
The banks spun out of larger knowledge based services and we see the administration and from other parts of the business.
groups to satisfy regulators are also high value science services market as being is growing at a rate Insurance attracting interest with their back to the ready for a similar approach.
In addition, Capitas major sales team is able to of 5% per year.
leverage SouthWesterns expertise and experience in a highly competitive environment, The tier 1 banks are responding to this, but Germany Since the acquisition in the agriculture sector opening up a number of resulting in a greater need for them some still have some way to go to regain Having built relationships and developed was finalised in 2014, new opportunities in a new market segment for This deal will significantly enhance to focus on improving multi-channel public trust.
Banks are reshaping their potential opportunities with our UK the business has now Capita in the UK and Europe.
Capitas presence in the Irish experience to increase customer retention.
operating models to reflect the shifting clients northern European parent fully integrated into business process outsourcing Where premium growth remains modest, channel preferences of their client base companies and subsidiaries, we have Capita and is looking firms are focused on improving operational and to cope with the continuous increase recently acquired a number of customer to accelerate growth.
market, which is estimated to efficiency and organisational flexibility, areas in compliance and regulation.
management businesses in the DACH be worth 1bn and growing by Drawing on expertise Capita is well placed to help them address.
region to provide a platform for growth from the wider Group, 5 per cent each year.
With this changing competitive in this new market for Capita.
The DACH SouthWestern is Financial services environment, customer services is region has 110 million German speakers Vic Gysin working with a number Joint Chief Operating Officer Financial services organisations margins therefore top of mind for retail banks, both and, with Germany the largest economy of its larger existing remain under pressure as business models as a means of retaining existing customers in Europe, offers an excellent opportunity clients to offer more and product offerings are becoming and as a differentiator that enables them for growth.
strategic transformative services, designed to increase Opening up new opportunities more similar.
customer satisfaction, drive revenue and secure their within Ireland and the reduce costs by standardising processes, The German outsourced Customer position as a market leader in the Irish outsourced agriculture sector rationalise products and automate Science services Management and BPM market in 2014 services industry.
functions across the front, middle, and Capita sees exciting opportunities to build was estimated to be worth 19.5bn and is back-office.
Acquisition of a key regional outsourcer, providing See page 14 Emerging markets new services in existing Mortgages geographical markets Capita has extended its capabilities beyond commercial mortgages Total potential administration to residential mortgage market: administration.
The stamp duty changes 1 19.5bn Acquisition date Employees Key customers announced in 2014 should help to 266bn August 2014 1,000 employees, primarily Agriculture sector, including: Department stimulate the market, but interest rate based in Ireland with smaller for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs rises are expected in 2015 and banks Core business offices in Poland and the UK DEFRA and Irish Department of are starting to gear up to respond.
Outsourced managed services Agriculture, Food and the Marine.
Banks have been reasonably successful Value Private sector, including: Vodafone, in addressing the pre-2020 cohort of 35m 28m on a cash free, eircom and Bord Gis interest-only mortgage holders, but more debt free basis needs to be done on those with longer 1 Source: Nelson Hall.
