Glossary of terms Arrears - the aggregate of contractual payments due on a debt that have Central counterparty CCP - an intermediary between a buyer and a not been met by the borrower.
A loan or other financial asset is said to be seller generally a clearing house.
'in arrears' when payments have not been made.
Certificates of deposit CDs - bearer negotiable instruments Asset-backed commercial paper ABCP - a form of asset-backed acknowledging the receipt of a fixed term deposit at a specified interest security generally issued by a commercial paper conduit.
Asset-backed securities ABS - securities that represent interests in Collateralised debt obligations CDOs - asset-backed securities for specific portfolios of assets.
They are issued by a structured entity which the underlying asset portfolios are debt obligations: either bonds following a securitisation.
The underlying portfolios commonly comprise collateralised bond obligations or loans collateralised loan obligations residential or commercial mortgages but can include any class of asset or both.
The credit exposure underlying synthetic CDOs derives from that yields predictable cash flows.
Payments on the securities depend credit default swaps.
The CDOs issued by an individual vehicle are primarily on the cash flows generated by the assets in the underlying pool usually divided in different tranches: senior tranches rated AAA, and other rights designed to assure timely payment, such as guarantees mezzanine tranches AA to BB, and equity tranches unrated.
Losses or other credit enhancements.
Collateralised debt obligations, are borne first by the equity securities, next by the junior securities, and collateralised loan obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities finally by the senior securities: junior tranches offer higher coupons and residential mortgage backed securities are all types of ABS.
interest payments to compensate for their increased risk.
Asset quality AQ band - probability of default banding for all Collateralised loan obligations CLOs - asset-backed securities for which counterparties on a scale of 1 to 10. the underlying asset portfolios are loans, often leveraged loans.
Assets under management - assets managed by the Group on behalf of Collectively assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss clients.
provisions in respect of impaired loans, such as credit cards or personal loans, that are below individual assessment thresholds.
Such provisions Back-testing - statistical techniques that assess the performance of a are established on a portfolio basis, taking account of the level of arrears, model, and how that model would have performed had it been applied in security, past loss experience, credit scores and defaults based on the past.
Basel II - the capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee Commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS - asset-backed on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Basel III - in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Commercial paper CP - unsecured obligations issued by a corporate or Supervision issued final rules: Basel III: A global regulatory framework a bank directly or secured obligations asset-backed CP, often issued for more resilient banks and banking systems and Basel III: International through a commercial paper conduit, to fund working capital.
Maturities framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring.
typically range from two to 270 days.
However, the depth and reliability of some CP markets means that issuers can repeatedly roll over CP Basis point - one hundredth of a per cent i. e. 0.01 per cent.
100 basis issuance and effectively achieve longer term funding.
CP is issued in a points is 1 per cent.
Used when quoting movements in interest rates or wide range of denominations and can be either discounted or interestyields on securities.
Bear steepener - a steepening of the yield curve caused by long-term Commercial paper conduit - a structured entity that issues commercial rates increasing faster than short term rates.
paper and uses the proceeds to purchase or fund a pool of assets.
The commercial paper is secured on the assets and is redeemed either by BIPRU - the prudential sourcebook for banks, building societies and further commercial paper issuance, repayment of assets or liquidity investment firms.
The part of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA drawings.
Handbook that sets out detailed prudential requirements for the banks that they regulate.
Commercial real estate - freehold and leasehold properties used for business activities.
Commercial real estate includes office buildings, Bull flattener - a flattening of the yield curve in which long term rates are industrial property, medical centres, hotels, retail stores, shopping decreasing faster than short term rates.
centres, agricultural land and buildings, warehouses, garages etc.
Buy-to-let mortgages - mortgages to customers for the purchase of Common Equity Tier 1 capital - the highest quality form of regulatory residential property as a rental investment.
capital under Basel III comprising common shares issued and related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash Capital requirements regulation CRR - see CRD IV.
flow hedging reserve, less specified regulatory adjustments.
505 Glossary of terms Constant currency - reported results for the current reporting period are Credit enhancements - techniques that improve the credit standing of compared to results for comparative periods retranslated at exchange financial obligations: generally those issued by a structured entity in a rates for the current period.
External credit enhancements include financial guarantees and letters of credit from third party providers.
Internal enhancements Contractual maturity - the date in the terms of a financial instrument on include excess spread - the difference between the interest rate received which the last payment or receipt under the contract is due for settlement.
on the underlying portfolio and the coupon on the issued securities: and  - on securitisation, the value of the underlying Core Tier 1 capital - under Basel 2 called-up share capital and eligible portfolio is greater than the securities issued.
reserves plus equity non-controlling interests, less intangible assets and other regulatory deductions.
Credit grade - a rating that represents an assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer.
It is a point on a scale representing the Core Tier 1 capital ratio - Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage of riskprobability of default of a customer.
Credit risk - the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a customer, or Cost:income ratio - operating expenses as a percentage of total income.
counterparty, to meet its obligation to settle outstanding amounts.
Counterparty credit risk - the risk that a counterparty defaults before the Credit risk mitigation - reducing the credit risk of an exposure by maturity of a derivative or sale and repurchase contract.
In contrast to application of techniques such as netting, collateral, guarantees and non-counterparty credit risk, the exposure to counterparty credit risk credit derivatives.
varies by reference to a market factor e. g. interest rate, exchange rate, asset price.
Credit valuation adjustment CVA - the CVA is the difference between the risk-free value of a portfolio of trades and its market value, taking into Coverage ratio - impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired account the counterpartys risk of default.
It represents the market value loans.
of counterparty credit risk, or an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to reflect the creditworthiness of its Covered bonds - debt securities backed by a portfolio of mortgages that counterparty.
are segregated from the issuer's other assets solely for the benefit of the holders of the covered bonds.
Currency swap - an arrangement in which two parties exchange specific principal amounts of different currencies at inception and subsequently CRD IV - the European Union has implemented the Basel III capital interest payments on the principal amounts.
Often, one party will pay a proposals through the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and the fixed rate of interest, while the other will pay a floating rate though there Capital Requirements Directive CRD, collectively known as CRD IV.
are also fixed-fixed and floating-floating arrangements.
At the maturity of CRD IV was implemented on 1 January 2014.
The European Banking the swap, the principal amounts are usually re-exchanged.
Authoritys technical standards are still to be finalised through adoption by the European Commission and implemented within the UK.
Customer accounts - money deposited with the Group by counterparties other than banks and classified as liabilities.
They include demand, Credit default swap CDS - a contract where the protection seller savings and time deposits: securities sold under repurchase agreements: receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from banks are make payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event in classified as deposits by banks.
relation to a reference financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Credit events usually include bankruptcy, payment default and rating Debit valuation adjustment DVA - an adjustment made by an entity to downgrades.
the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the entity's own credit risk.
Credit derivative product company CDPC - a structured entity that sells credit protection under credit default swaps or certain approved forms of Debt securities - transferable instruments creating or acknowledging insurance policies.
Sometimes they can also buy credit protection.
They include debentures, bonds, certificates of deposit, CDPCs are similar to monoline insurers.
However, unlike monoline notes and commercial paper.
The holder of a debt security is typically insurers, they are not regulated as insurers.
entitled to the payment of principal and interest, together with other contractual rights under the terms of the issue, such as the right to Credit derivatives - contractual agreements that provide protection receive certain information.
Debt securities are generally issued for a against a credit event on one or more reference entities or financial fixed term and redeemable by the issuer at the end of that term.
The nature of a credit event is established by the protection buyer securities can be secured or unsecured.
and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency or failure to meet payment obligations Debt securities in issue - unsubordinated debt securities issued by the when due.
The buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return Group.
They include commercial paper, certificates of deposit, bonds and for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a medium-term notes.
Credit derivatives include credit default swaps, total return swaps and credit swap options.
506 Glossary of terms Deferred tax asset - income taxes recoverable in future periods as a Encumbrance - an interest in an asset held by another party.
result of deductible temporary differences temporary differences Encumbrance usually impacts the transferability of the asset and can between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result restrict its free use until the encumbrance is removed.
in tax deductible amounts in future periods and the carry-forward of tax losses and unused tax credits.
Equity risk - the risk of changes in the market price of the equities or equity instruments arising from positions, either long or short, in equities Deferred tax liability - income taxes payable in future periods as a result or equity-based financial instruments.
of taxable temporary differences temporary differences between the accounting and tax base of an asset or liability that will result in taxable Eurozone - the 17 European Union countries that have adopted the euro: amounts in future periods.
Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Defined benefit obligation - the present value of expected future Slovenia and Spain.
payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting from employee service.
Expected loss EL - expected loss represents the anticipated loss on an exposure over one year.
It is determined by multiplying probability of Defined benefit plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement benefit default, loss given default and exposure at default and can be calculated plan other than a defined contribution plan.
at individual, credit facility, customer or portfolio level.
Defined contribution plan scheme - pension or other post-retirement Exposure - a claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of benefit plan where the employer's obligation is limited to its contributions financial loss.
Exposure at default EAD - an estimate of the extent to which the bank Deposits by banks - money deposited with the Group by banks and will be exposed under a specific facility, in the event of the default of a recorded as liabilities.
They include money-market deposits, securities counterparty.
sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other short term deposits.
Deposits received from customers are recorded as FICO score - a credit score calculated using proprietary software customer accounts.
developed by the Fair Isaac Corporation in the US from a consumer's credit profile.
The scores range between 300 and 850 and are used in Derivative - a contract or agreement whose value changes with changes credit decisions made by banks and other providers of credit.
in an underlying index such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, share prices or indices and which requires no initial investment or an Financial Conduct Authority FCA - the statutory body responsible for initial investment that is smaller than would be required for other types of conduct of business regulation and supervision of UK authorised firms contracts with a similar response to market factors.
The principal types of from 1 April 2013.
The FCA also has responsibility for the prudential derivatives are: swaps, forwards, futures and options.
regulation of firms that do not fall within the PRAs scope.
Discontinued operation - a component of the Group that either has been Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS - the UK's statutory disposed of or is classified as held for sale.
A discontinued operation is fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
It either: a separate major line of business or geographical area of pays compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The FSCS operations or part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate funds compensation for customers by raising management expenses major line of business or geographical area of operations: or a subsidiary levies and compensation levies on the financial services industry.
acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Economic capital - an internal measure of the capital required by the First second lien - a lien is a charge such as a mortgage held by one Group to support the risks to which it is exposed.
party, over property owned by a second party, as security for payment of some debt, obligation, or duty owed by that second party.
The holder of a Economic profit - the difference between the return on shareholders first lien takes precedence over all other encumbrances on that property funds and the cost of that capital.
Economic profit is usually expressed as i. e. second and subsequent liens.
Forbearance - forbearance takes place when a concession is made on Effective interest rate method - the effective interest method is a method the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability difficulties.
or group of financial assets or liabilities and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
Forward contract - a contract to buy or sell a specified amount of a The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated physical or financial commodity, at an agreed price, at an agreed future future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount.
the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts Fully loaded Basel III basis - capital ratios based on the rules that will on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All apply at the end of the Basel III transition period.
contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
507 Glossary of terms Futures contract - a contract which provides for the future delivery or Interest rate swap - a contract under which two counterparties agree to acceptance of delivery of some type of financial instrument or commodity exchange periodic interest payments on a predetermined monetary under terms established at the outset.
Futures differ from forward principal, the notional amount.
contracts in that they are traded on recognised exchanges and rarely result in actual delivery: most contracts are closed out prior to maturity by Interest spread - the difference between the gross yield and the interest acquisition of an offsetting position.
rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities.
G10 - the Group of Ten comprises the eleven industrial countries Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP - the Groups Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, own assessment, as part of Basel II requirements, of its risks, how it Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States that intends to mitigate those risks and how much current and future capital is have agreed to participate in the International Monetary Funds IMFs necessary having considered other mitigating factors.
Internal funding of trading business - the internal funding of the trading Government Sponsored Enterprises GSEs - a group of financial book comprises net banking book financial liabilities that fund financial services corporations created by the US Congress.
Their function is to assets in the Groups trading portfolios.
Interest payable on these improve the efficiency of capital markets and to overcome statutory and financial liabilities is charged to the trading book.
other market imperfections which otherwise prevent funds from moving easily from suppliers of funds to areas of high loan demand.
They include International Accounting Standards Board IASB - the independent the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Federal National standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.
Its members are Mortgage Association.
responsible for the development and publication of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and for approving Interpretations of IFRS Gross yield - the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets as developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee.
i. e. interest income divided by average interest-earning assets.
International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master Haircut - a downward adjustment to collateral value to reflect its nature, agreement - a standardised contract developed by ISDA for bilateral any currency or maturity mismatches between a credit risk mitigant and derivatives transactions.
The contract grants legal rights of set-off for the underlying exposure to which it is being applied.
derivative transactions with the same counterparty.
Hedge funds - pooled investment vehicles that are not widely available to Investment grade - generally represents a risk profile similar to a rating of the public: their assets are managed by professional asset managers BBBBaa3 or better, as defined by independent rating agencies.
who participate in the performance of the fund.
Key management - members of the RBS Executive Committee.
Impaired loans - all loans for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions Latent loss provisions - loan impairment provisions held against are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impairments in the performing loan portfolio that have been incurred as a impaired loans.
result of events occurring before the balance sheet date but which have not been identified as impaired at the balance sheet date.
Impairment allowance - see Loan impairment provisions.
Level 1 - level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted prices Impairment losses - a for impaired financial assets measured at unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the amortised cost, impairment losses - the difference between carrying entity can access at the measurement date.
value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate - are recognised in profit or loss Level 2 - level 2 fair value measurements use inputs, other than quoted and the carrying amount of the financial asset reduced by establishing a prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, provision allowance b for impaired available-for-sale financial assets, either directly or indirectly.
the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss as an impairment Level 3 - level 3 fair value measurements use one or more unobservable loss.
inputs for the asset or liability.
Individual liquidity guidance ILG - guidance from the PRA on a firm's Leverage ratio - a measure prescribed under Basel III.
It is the ratio of required quantity of liquidity resources and funding profile.
Tier 1 capital to total exposures.
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and generally follow Individually assessed loan impairment provisions - impairment loss the accounting measure of exposure.
provisions for individually significant impaired loans assessed on a caseby-case basis, taking into account the financial condition of the counterparty and any guarantor and the realisable value of any collateral held.
508 Glossary of terms Leveraged finance - funding leveraged finance provided to a business Monoline insurers monolines - entities that specialise in providing credit resulting in an overall level of debt in relation to cash flow that exceeds protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders that which would be considered usual for the business or for the industry of debt instruments in the event of default.
This protection is typically in in which it operates.
Leveraged finance is commonly employed to the form of derivatives such as credit default swaps.
achieve a specific, often temporary, objective: to make an acquisition, to effect a buy-out or to repurchase shares.
Mortgage-backed securities - asset-backed securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are loans secured on property.
See Liquidity and funding risk - the risk that the Group is unable to meet its Residential mortgage backed securities and Commercial mortgage financial liabilities when they fall due.
Liquidity coverage ratio LCR - the ratio of the stock of high quality liquid Mortgage servicing rights - the rights of a mortgage servicer to collect assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days.
High mortgage payments and forward them, after deducting a fee, to the quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a mortgage lender.
time of stress and, ideally, central bank eligible.
Negative equity mortgages - mortgages where the value of the property Loan:deposit ratio - the ratio of loans and advances to customers net of mortgaged is less than the outstanding balance on the loan.
provision for impairment losses and excluding reverse repurchase agreements to customer deposits excluding repurchase agreements.
Net interest income - the difference between interest receivable on financial assets classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale Loan impairment provisions - loan impairment provisions are established and interest payable on financial liabilities carried at amortised cost.
to recognise incurred impairment losses on a portfolio of loans classified as loans and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
It has three Net interest margin - net interest income as a percentage of average components: individually assessed loan impairment provisions, interest-earning assets.
collectively assessed loan impairment provisions and latent loss provisions.
Net stable funding ratio NSFR - the ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a Loan-to-value ratio - the amount of a secured loan as a percentage of the stressed scenario.
Available stable funding includes items such as equity appraised value of the security e. g. the outstanding amount of a capital, preferred stock with a maturity of over one year and liabilities with mortgage loan as a percentage of the property's value.
an assessed maturity of over one year.
London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR - the benchmark interest rate at Non-performing loans - loans classified as Risk elements in lending and which banks can borrow funds from other banks in the London interbank potential problem loans.
They have a 100% probability of default and market.
have been assigned an AQ10 internal credit grade.
Loss given default LGD - an estimate of the amount that will not be Operational risk - the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed recovered by the Group in the event of default, plus the cost of debt processes, people, systems or from external events.
collection activities and the delay in cash recovery.
Option - an option is a contract that gives the holder the right but not the Market risk - the risk of loss arising from fluctuations in interest rates, obligation to buy or sell a specified amount of the underlying physical or credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity prices, commodity prices financial commodity, at a specific price, at an agreed date or over an and other risk-related factors such as market volatilities that may lead to agreed period.
Options can be exchange-traded or traded over-thea reduction in earnings, economic value or both.
Master netting agreement - an agreement between two counterparties Over-the-counter OTC derivatives - derivatives with tailored terms and that have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for conditions negotiated bilaterally, in contrast to exchange traded the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment, in a single derivatives that have standardised terms and conditions.
currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Own credit adjustment OCA - the effect of the Groups own credit Maximum distributable amount MDA - a restriction on distributions standing on the fair value of financial liabilities.
which may be made by a bank which does not meet the combined buffer Past due - a financial asset such as a loan is past due when the requirements as set out in the PRA Supervisory Statement SS6 14 counterparty has failed to make a payment when contractually due.
Implementing CRD IV: capital buffers.
Pillar 1 - the part of Basel II that sets out the process by which regulatory Medium term notes MTNs - debt securities usually with a maturity of five capital requirements should be calculated for credit, market and to ten years, but the term may be less than one year or as long as 50 operational risk.
They can be issued on a fixed or floating coupon basis or with an exotic coupon: with a fixed maturity date non-callable or with embedded call or put options or early repayment triggers.
MTNs are generally issued as senior unsecured debt.
509 Glossary of terms Pillar 2 - Pillar 2 is intended to ensure that firms have adequate capital to Repurchase agreement Repo - see Sale and repurchase agreements.
support all the relevant risks in their business and is divided into capital held against risks not captured or not fully captured by the Pillar 1 Residential mortgage - a loan to purchase a residential property where regulations Pillar 2A and risks to which a firm may become exposed the property forms collateral for the loan.
The borrower gives the lender a over a forward-looking planning horizon Pillar 2B.
Capital held under lien against the property and the lender can foreclose on the property if Pillar 2A, in addition to the Pillar 1 requirements, is the minimum level of the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms.
Also known regulatory capital a bank should maintain at all times to cover adequately as a home loan.
the risks to which it is or might be exposed, and to comply with the overall Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS - asset-backed financial adequacy rules.
Pillar 2B is a capital buffer which helps to securities for which the underlying asset portfolios are residential ensure that a bank can continue to meet minimum requirements during a mortgages.
RBS RMBS classifications, including prime, non-conforming stressed period, and is determined by the PRA evaluating the risks to and sub-prime, reflect the characteristics of the underlying mortgage which the firm may become exposed e. g. due to changes to the portfolios.
RMBS are classified as prime RMBS where the loans have low economic environment during the supervisory review and evaluation default risk and are made to borrowers with good credit records and process.
All firms will be subject to a PRA buffer assessment and the reliable payment histories and there is full documentation.
NonPRA will set a PRA buffer only if it judges that the CRD IV buffers are conforming RMBS include US Alt-A RMBS, together with RMBS-in inadequate for a particular firm given its vulnerability in a stress scenario, jurisdictions other than the US where the underlying mortgages are not or where the PRA has identified risk management and governance classified as either prime or sub-prime.
Classification of RMBS as failings, which the CRD IV buffers are not intended to address.
subprime or Alt-A is based on Fair Isaac Corporation scores FICO, level of documentation and loan-to-value ratios of the underlying mortgage Pillar 3 - the part of Basel II that sets out the information banks must disclose about their risks, the amount of capital required to absorb them, loans.
US RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the mortgage portfolio and their approach to risk management.
The aim is to strengthen market comprises loans with FICO scores between 500 and 650 with full or limited documentation.
Mortgages in Alt-A RMBS portfolios have FICO discipline.
scores of 640 to 720, limited documentation and an original LTV of 70% Position risk requirement - a capital requirement applied to a position to 100%.
In other jurisdictions, RMBS are classified as sub-prime if the treated under BIPRU 7 Market risk as part of the calculation of the mortgage portfolio comprises loans with one or more high risk market risk capital requirement.
characteristics such as: unreliable or poor payment histories: high loanto-value ratios: high debt-to-income ratio: the loan is not secured on the Potential future exposure - is a measure of counterparty risk credit risk.
It borrower's primary residence: or a history of delinquencies or late is calculated by evaluating existing trades done against the possible payments on the loan.
market prices in future during the lifetime of the transactions.
Retail loans - loans made to individuals rather than institutions.
The loans Potential problem loans PPL - loans for which an impairment event has may be for car purchases, home purchases, medical care, home repair, taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for holidays and other consumer uses.
advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
Return on equity - profit attributable to ordinary and B shareholders divided by average shareholders equity as a percentage.
Private equity investments - equity investments in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange.
Capital for private equity investment is Reverse repurchase agreement Reverse repo - see Sale and raised from retail or institutional investors and used to fund investment repurchase agreements.
strategies such as leveraged buyouts, venture capital, growth capital, distressed investments and mezzanine capital.
Risk appetite - an expression of the maximum level of risk that the Group is prepared to accept to deliver its business objectives.
Probability of default PD - the likelihood that a customer will fail to make full and timely repayment of credit obligations over a one year time Risk asset ratio RAR - total regulatory capital as a percentage of riskhorizon.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA - the statutory body responsible, Risk elements in lending REIL - impaired loans and accruing loans from 1 April 2013, for the prudential supervision of banks, building which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or societies, insurers and a small number of significant investment firms in interest.
The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England.
Risk-weighted assets RWAs - assets adjusted for their associated risks Regular way purchase or sale - a purchase or sale of a financial asset using weightings established in accordance with the Basel Capital Accord under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time as implemented by the PRA.
Certain assets are not weighted but frame established generally by regulation or convention in the deducted from capital.
Sale and repurchase agreements - in a sale and repurchase agreement Regulatory capital - the amount of capital that the Group holds, one party, the seller, sells a financial asset to another party, the buyer, at determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the the same time the seller agrees to reacquire and the buyer to resell the consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group asset at a later date.
From the seller's perspective such agreements are companies.
repurchase agreements repos and from the buyer's reverse repurchase agreements reverse repos.
510 Glossary of terms Securitisation - a process by which assets or cash flows are transformed Super senior CDO - the most senior class of instrument issued by a CDO into transferable securities.
The underlying assets or cash flows are vehicle.
They benefit from the subordination of all other instruments, transferred by the originator or an intermediary, typically an investment including AAA rated securities, issued by the CDO vehicle.
bank, to a structured entity which issues securities to investors.
Asset Supervisory slotting approach - a method of calculating regulatory capital, securitisations involve issuing debt securities asset-backed securities specifically for lending exposures in project finance and income that are backed by the cash flows of income-generating assets ranging producing real estate, where the PD estimates do not meet the minimum from credit card receivables to residential mortgage loans.
Under this approach, the bank classifies exposures from Settlement balances - payables and receivables that result from 1 to 5, where 1 is strong and 5 is default.
Specific risk-weights are purchases and sales of financial instruments recognised on trade date.
Asset settlement balances are amounts owed to the Group in respect of Tier 1 capital - a component of regulatory capital, comprising common sales and liability settlement balances are amounts owed by the Group in equity tier 1 and additional tier 1.
Additional tier 1 capital includes eligible respect of purchases.
non-common equity capital securities and any related share premium.
Sovereign exposures - exposures to governments, ministries, Under Basel II, Tier 1 capital comprises Core Tier 1 capital plus other Tier departments of governments and central banks.
1 securities in issue, less certain regulatory deductions.
Standardised approach - a method used to calculate credit risk capital Tier 1 capital ratio - a component of regulatory capital, comprising eligible requirements under Pillar 1 of Basel II.
In this approach the risk weights capital securities and any related share premium.
Under Basel II, used in the capital calculation are determined by regulators.
For qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in issue, eligible operational risk, capital requirements are determined by multiplying three collective impairment allowances, unrealised gains arising on the fair years historical gross income by a percentage determined by the valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale, less certain regulator.
The percentage ranges from 12 to 18%, depending on the type regulatory deductions.
of underlying business being considered.
Tier 2 capital - qualifying subordinated debt and other Tier 2 securities in Standstill - is an agreement, usually for a specified period of time, not to issue, eligible collective impairment allowances, unrealised available-forenforce the Banks rights as a result of a customer breaching the terms sale equity gains and revaluation reserves less certain regulatory and conditions of their facilities.
This is a concession to the customer.
standstill is most commonly used in a complex restructuring of a companys debts, where a group of creditors agree to delay enforcement Total loss absorbing capacity TLAC - an FSB proposal for global action to give the company time to gather information and formulate a systemically important banks to have a sufficient amount of specific types strategy with a view to establishing a formal restructuring.
of liabilities which can be used to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution.
These proposals are intended to facilitate an orderly Stress testing - a technique used to evaluate the potential effects on an resolution that minimises any impact on financial stability, ensures the institutions financial condition of an exceptional but plausible event continuity of critical functions, and avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.
and or movement in a set of financial variables.
Unaudited - financial information that has not been subjected to the audit Stressed value-at-risk SVaR - a VaR measure using historical data from procedures undertaken by the Group's auditors to enable them to a one year period of stressed market conditions.
For the purposes of express an opinion on the Group's financial statements.
calculating regulatory SVaR, a time horizon of ten trading days is assumed at a confidence level of 99%.
US Federal Agencies - are independent bodies established by the US Government for specific purposes such as the management of natural Structured credit portfolio SCP - a portfolio of certain of the Groups resources, financial oversight or national security.
A number of agencies, illiquid assets - principally CDO super senior positions, negative basis including, the Government National Mortgage Association, issue or trades and monoline exposures - held within Non-Core division.
guarantee publicly traded debt securities.
Structured entity SE - an entity that has been designed such that voting Value-at-risk VaR - a technique that produces estimates of the potential or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who controls the loss in the market value of a portfolio over a specified time period at a entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks given confidence level.
only and the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
SEs are usually established for a specific, limited purpose, Wholesale funding - wholesale funding comprises Deposits by banks, they do not carry out a business or trade and typically have no Debt securities in issue and Subordinated liabilities.
They take a variety of legal forms - trusts, partnerships and Write-down - a reduction in the carrying value of an asset to record a companies - and fulfil many different functions.
decline in its fair value or value in use.
Structured notes - securities that pay a return linked to the value or level Wrong-way risk - the risk of loss when the risk factors driving the of a specified asset or index.
Structured notes can be linked to equities, exposure to a counterparty or customer are positively correlated with the interest rates, funds, commodities and foreign currency.
creditworthiness of that counterparty i. e. the size of the exposure Subordinated liabilities - liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or increases at the same time as the risk of the counterparty or customer liquidation of the issuer, are subordinated to the claims of depositors and being unable to meet that obligation, increases.
other creditors of the issuer.
511 EDTF recommendations The Enhanced Disclosure Taskforce EDTF, established by the Financial Stability Board, published its report Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks in October 2012.
The report suggests improvements to address the quality, comparability and transparency of risk disclosures in areas of risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity and funding, credit risk and market risk.
RBS implemented the majority of the EDTF recommendations in its 2012 Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report, and the remainder in its 2013 reports.
All EDTF recommendations are also reflected in the 2014 reports.
The table below sets out the EDTF recommendations and the related locations in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts and Pillar 3 Report.
Page reference Report & Pillar 3 Risk type Recommendation Accounts General 1 Present all risk information together.
Where this is not practicable, provide , an index.
 2 Risk terminology, risk measures and key parameter values used.
202,204, 217-218,220 , Risk governance and risk 5 Summarise risk management organisation, processes and key functions.
310-314,322,332 Capital adequacy and risk- 9 Pillar 1 minimal capital requirements.
162,190,196-197 weighted assets 10 Composition of capital and reconciliation between accounting and regulatory , balance sheet.
196-205 13 Risk-weighted assets RWAs and business activities.
200,307-308, 315 Liquidity 18 Liquid assets and their management.
228-230,423 223-227,393-395, 20 Contractual maturity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments.
228-230 Market risk 22 Linkages the balance sheet and market risk portfolios.
301-302 23 Significant trading and non-trading market risk factors.
304-314,316-318 305-307,316, 380-381, 24 Model limitations, assumptions and validation procedures 387-388 25 Stress testing and scenario analysis.
310,318,320 215,237,238, 246,260, Credit risk 26 Credit risk exposures, including linkage to balance sheet.
353-354,359 28 Flow statements for impaired loans and allowance for loan losses.
288-296 29 Counterparty credit risk that arises from derivatives transactions.
