Shareholder information 494 Financial calendar 494 Shareholder enquiries 495 Analyses of ordinary shareholders 496 Trading market 498 Dividend history 499 Taxation for US Holders 502 Exchange controls 502 Memorandum and Articles of Association 502 Incorporation and registration 503 Forward-looking statements 504 Abbreviations and acronyms 505 Glossary of terms 512 EDTF recommendations 513 Index 516 Important addresses 516 Principal offices 493 Shareholder information Financial calendar Dividends Annual General Meeting 23 June 2015 Payment dates RBS Conference Centre Cumulative preference shares 31 May and 31 December 2015 RBS Gogarburn Edinburgh EH12 1HQ Non-cumulative preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December 2015 Ex-dividend date Interim results 30 July 2015 Cumulative preference shares 30 April 2015 Shareholder enquiries Record date Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting the Cumulative preference shares 1 May 2015 Shareholder centre section of our website, www.
You will need the shareholder reference number printed on your share certificate or tax For further information on the payment of dividends, see page 498. voucher to gain access to this information.
Braille and audio Strategic report with additional information Listed below are the most commonly used features on the website: Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Strategic report with additional information should contact the Registrar on 44 0 870 holding enquiry - view balances, values, history, payments and 702 0135. reinvestments: ShareGift address change - change your registered address: The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it e-Comms sign-up - choose to receive email notification when your uneconomical to dispose of them.
ShareGift, the charity share donation shareholder communications become available instead of paper scheme, is a free service operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation communications: registered charity 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate shares to charity.
outstanding payments - reissue any uncashed payments using our online replacement service: and Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a gain or a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may be able to reclaim UK downloadable forms - including stock transfer and change of income tax on gifted shares.
Further information can be obtained from address forms.
You may also check your shareholding by contacting our Registrar: Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way you should contact ShareGift for further information: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Bridgwater Road 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737 Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0135 Website: www.
co. uk contactus 494 Shareholder information Share fraud warning Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or nondetails on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at way you will probably lose your money.
uk scams Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
Remember if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying Report a scam its website or giving you false contact details.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer call it back.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Analyses of ordinary shareholders Number of shares At 31 December 2014 Shareholdings - millions % Individuals 194,957 112.1 1.8 Banks and nominee companies 10,181 6,189.9 97.2 Investment trusts 97 0.7 Insurance companies 90 0.3 Other companies 903 16.9 0.3 Pension trusts 28 0.9 Other corporate bodies 85 45.1 0.7 206,341 6,365.9 100.0 Range of shareholdings: 1 - 1,000 178,446 44.6 0.7 1,001 - 10,000 26,206 59.3 0.9 10,001 - 100,000 1,050 29.4 0.5 100,001 - 1,000,000 412 143.2 2.2 1,000,001 - 10,000,000 182 579.0 9.1 10,000,001 and over 45 5,510.4 86.6 206,341 6,365.9 100.0 495 Shareholder information Trading market Non-cumulative dollar preference shares The following series of American Depositary shares ADSs representing non-cumulative preference shares issued in the US were outstanding at 31 December 2014: Number of ADSs non-cumulative Number of Date of issue Series of ADS preference shares in issue registered holders 26 March 1997 F 6,255,408 48 8 February 1999 H 9,687,654 30 30 September 2004 L 30,027,877 17 26 August 2004 M 23,125,869 6 19 May 2005 N 22,113,160 10 9 November 2005 P 9,883,307 19 25 May 2006 Q 20,646,938 6 27 December 2006 R 10,163,932 3 28 June 2007 S 26,449,040 2 27 September 2007 T 51,245,839 14 4 October 2007 U 10,130 1 Each of the respective ADSs set out above represents the right to receive ADSs representing ordinary shares one corresponding preference share, and is evidenced by an American In October 2007, the company listed ADSs, each representing one Depository Receipt ADR and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, ordinary share nominal value 25p each or a right to receive one ordinary a subsidiary of NYSE Euronext NYSE.
share, and evidenced by an ADR or uncertificated securities, on the NYSE.
With effect from 7 November 2008, the ratio of one ADS The ADRs evidencing the ADSs above were issued pursuant to Deposit representing one ordinary share changed to one ADS representing 20 Agreements, among the company, The Bank of New York, as depository, ordinary shares.
and all holders from time-to-time of ADRs issued thereunder.
Currently, there is no non-United States trading market for any of the nonFollowing a sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of RBSs ordinary cumulative dollar preference shares.
All of the non-cumulative dollar shares in June 2012, the ratio of one ADS representing 20 ordinary preference shares are held by the depository, as custodian, in bearer shares was adjusted to one ADS representing two ordinary shares.
31 December 2014, 30.7 million ordinary ADSs were outstanding.
PROs The ordinary ADSs were issued pursuant to a Deposit Agreement, In August 2001, the company issued US$1.2 billion perpetual regulatory among the company, The Bank of New York Mellon, as depository, and tier one securities PROs which are listed on the NYSE.
all owners and holders from time to time of ordinary ADSs issued thereunder.
The ordinary shares of the company are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
All ordinary shares are deposited with the principal London office of The Bank of New York Mellon, as custodian for the depository.
496 Shareholder information The following table shows the high and low sales prices for each of the outstanding ADSs representing non-cumulative dollar preference shares, PROs, ordinary shares and ADSs representing ordinary shares.
2 Price quoted as a % of US$1,000 nominal.
3 Prices as reported in the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Following the sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of ordinary shares in June 2012, prices prior to that date were restated accordingly.
4 Prices as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
Following the sub-division and one-for-ten consolidation of ordinary shares in June 2012, the ratio of one ADS representing 20 ordinary shares was adjusted to one ADS representing two ordinary shares.
On 25 February 2015, the closing price of the ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange was 4.033 equivalent to $6.251 per ordinary share translated at the Noon Buying Rate of $1.5499 per 1.00, and the closing price of the ordinary ADSs on the NYSE was $12.43.
On 26 November 2009, RBS entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed On 4 May 2012, RBS determined that it was in a position to recommence with HM Treasury containing commitments and undertakings that were payments on RBS Group instruments.
In June 2013 RBS Holdings N. V. designed to ensure that HM Treasury was able to comply with the resumed payments on its hybrid capital instruments.
Future coupons and commitments to be given by it to the European Commission for the dividends on hybrid capital instruments will only be paid subject to, and in purposes of obtaining approval for the State aid provided to RBS.
As part accordance with, the terms of the relevant instruments.
of these commitments and undertakings, RBS agreed not to pay discretionary coupons and dividends on its existing hybrid capital For further information, see Note 7 on the consolidated accounts.
instruments for a period of two years.
This period commenced on 30 April 2010 for RBS Group instruments and ended on 30 April 2012: the two Ordinary dividends year deferral period for RBS Holdings N. V. instruments commenced on 1 The company has not paid an ordinary dividend since 2007.
In 2008, the April 2011 and ended on 1 April 2013. company issued new ordinary shares by way of a capitalisation issue rather than paying an interim dividend.
498 Shareholder information Taxation for US Holders Ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs The following discussion summarises certain US federal and UK tax Taxation of dividends consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, ADSs For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Taxation Treaty and the US representing ordinary shares ordinary ADSs, ADSs representing nonInternal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended the Code, US Holders of cumulative dollar preference shares preference ADSs or PROs by a ordinary ADSs and preference ADSs should be treated as owners of the beneficial owner that is a citizen or resident of the United States or that respective ordinary shares and the non-cumulative dollar preference otherwise will be subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis shares underlying such ADSs.
in respect of the ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs a US Holder.
This summary assumes that a US Holder is The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to whom holding ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, as depositary receipts are released before shares are delivered to the applicable, as capital assets.
This summary does not address the tax depositary, or intermediaries in the chain of ownership between US consequences to a US Holder i that is resident in the UK for UK tax holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts, purposes, ii that carries on a trade, profession or vocation through a may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign branch, agency or permanent establishment in the UK in connection with tax credits for US holders of depositary receipts.
Such actions would also which their ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs be inconsistent with the claiming of the favourable US tax rates are held, used or acquired, or iii generally, that is a corporation which applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders alone or together with one or more associated companies, controls, described below.
Accordingly, the availability of the favourable tax rates directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the company, nor for dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders could be does this summary address all of the tax consequences that may be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
relevant to a US Holder in light of its particular circumstances, including alternative minimum tax and Medicare contribution tax consequences, as The company is not required to withhold UK tax at source from dividend well as differing tax consequences that may apply to US Holders subject payments it makes or from any amount including any amounts in respect to special rules, such as certain financial institutions, dealers or traders in of accrued dividends distributed by the company.
US Holders who are securities who use a mark-to-market method of tax accounting, persons not resident in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession or holding ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs as vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment part of a hedging transaction, straddle, wash sale, conversion transaction in connection with which their ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs or or integrated transaction or persons entering into a constructive sale with preference ADSs are held, used or acquired will not be subject to UK tax respect to such securities, persons whose functional currency for US in respect of any dividends received on the relevant shares or ADSs.
federal income tax purposes is not the US dollar, entities classified as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, tax-exempt entities or Distributions by the company other than certain pro-rata distributions of persons that own or are deemed to own 10% or more of the voting stock ordinary shares or rights to receive such shares will constitute foreign of the company.
source dividend income for US federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or accumulated earnings and profits of the The statements and practices set forth below regarding US and UK tax company, as determined under US federal income tax principles.
laws, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income Because the company does not maintain calculations of its earnings and and capital gains which entered into force on 31 March 2003 the profits under US federal income tax principles, it is expected that Treaty and the US UK double taxation convention relating to estate and distributions will be reported to US Holders as dividends.
Payments will gift taxes the Estate Taxation Treaty, are based on those laws and not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to practices as in force and as applied in practice on the date of this report.
This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax Subject to applicable limitations that vary depending upon a US Holder's consequences, including specifically the consequences under US federal, particular circumstances and the discussion above regarding concerns state, local and other laws, and possible changes in taxation law, of the expressed by the US Treasury, dividends paid to certain non-corporate acquisition, ownership and disposition of ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, US Holders may be taxable at the favourable rates applicable to longpreference ADSs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special rules that The following discussion assumes that the company was not for the limit their ability to be taxed at these favourable rates.
taxable year ended 31 December 2014, and will not become in the foreseeable future, a passive foreign investment company - see Passive Dividends will be included in a US Holder's income on the date of the US Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations on page 502.
Holder's or in the case of ADSs, the depositary's receipt of the dividend.
The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling to be included in income by a US Holder will be the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the relevant exchange rate in effect on the date of such receipt regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on the date of receipt, the US Holder generally should not be required to recognise foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
If the amount of such dividend is converted into US dollars after the date of receipt, the US Holder may have foreign currency gain or loss.
499 Shareholder information Taxation for US Holders continued The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal Taxation of capital gains estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case A US Holder that is not resident in the UK will not normally be liable for where the ordinary share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is subject to UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of an ordinary share, both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or gift tax.
an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT in the UK through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in consequences of transferring an ADS otherwise than to the custodian on the UK through a branch or agency and, in each case, such ordinary cancellation of the ADS or of transferring an ordinary share.
A transfer of share, ordinary ADS or preference ADS is or has been used, held or an ADS executed and retained in the United States will not give rise to a acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, liability to pay stamp duty and an agreement to transfer an ADS will not carried on through such permanent establishment, branch or agency.
Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily not resident in the respect of transfers of ordinary shares and accordingly any holder that UK.
acquires or intends to acquire ordinary shares is advised to consult its own tax adviser in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
A US Holder will, upon the sale or other disposition of an ordinary share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS, or upon the redemption of PROs preference ADS, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal United States income tax purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption of a Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK withholding tax, as to preference ADS, such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to which see below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US own, any ordinary shares or ordinary ADSs of the company in an amount federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or equal to the difference between the amount realised excluding in the accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined under case of a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US federal US federal income tax principles.
Because the company does not income tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the US maintain calculations of its earnings and profits under US federal income Holder's tax basis in such share or ADS.
This capital gain or loss will be tax principles, it is expected that distributions will be reported to US long-term capital gain or loss if the US Holder held the share or ADS so Holders as dividends.
Payments will not be eligible for the dividendssold, disposed or redeemed for more than one year.
The deductibility of received deduction generally allowed to corporate US holders.
A US capital losses is subject to limitations.
Holder who is entitled under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, if any, withheld on a payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain recognised respect to the refundable tax.
Subject to applicable limitations that vary on the disposal of an ordinary share, an ordinary ADS or a preference depending upon a US Holder's particular circumstances and the ADS may be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax discussion above regarding concerns expressed by the US Treasury, against its US federal income tax liability in respect of such gain.
dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders may be taxable at the favourable rates applicable to long-term capital gain.
Non-corporate US Estate and gift tax Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they Subject to the discussion of the Estate Tax Treaty in the following are subject to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these paragraph, ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs favourable rates.
beneficially owned by an individual may be subject to UK inheritance tax subject to exemptions and reliefs on the death of the individual or in A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a PRO, certain circumstances, if such shares or ADSs are the subject of a gift generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax including a transfer at less than market value by such individual.
purposes assuming that in the case of a redemption, such US Holder Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary shares or ordinary more than seven years before the death of the donor.
Ordinary shares, ADSs of the company in an amount equal to the difference between the ordinary ADSs or preference ADSs held by the trustees of a settlement amount realised excluding any amount in respect of mandatory interest may also be subject to UK inheritance tax.
Special rules apply to such and any missed payments which are to be satisfied on a missed payment settlements.
satisfaction date, which would be treated as ordinary income and the US Holder's tax basis in the PRO.
This capital gain or loss will be long-term An ordinary share, an ordinary ADS or a preference ADS beneficially capital gain or loss if the US Holder held the PRO so sold, disposed or owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United redeemed for more than one year.
The deductibility of capital losses is States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a national of subject to limitations.
the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual's death or on a lifetime transfer of such share or ADS, except in certain cases A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain recognised on where the share or ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the the disposal of PROs may be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and credit the UK tax against all or a portion of its US federal income tax was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a UK liability in respect of such gain.
permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
500 Shareholder information United Kingdom Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax purposes Taxation of payments on the PROs and, as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment even Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than dividends for where paid without withholding.
However, interest with a UK source UK withholding tax purposes.
The PROs are not expected to fall within received without deduction or withholding on account of UK tax will not be the exemption from withholding tax provided for in the Taxation of chargeable to UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a Regulatory Capital Securities Regulations 2013 which apply to securities corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK which qualify or have qualified as Additional Tier 1 instruments under through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of other US Article 52 of the Commission Regulation EU No.
575 2013 or Tier 2 Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK instruments under Article 63 of that regulation and which form or have through a branch or agency in each case in connection with which the formed a component of Additional Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital.
interest is received or to which the PROs are attributable.
There are also However, the PROs constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of exemptions for interest received by certain categories of agents such as section 987 of the Income Tax Act 2007 and therefore payments of some brokers and investment managers.
interest will not be subject to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK tax as long as the PROs remain at all times listed on a recognised EU Directive on taxation of savings income stock exchange within the meaning of section 1005 of the Income Tax Under the European Union Council Directive 2003 48 EC on the taxation Act 2007, such as the main market of the New York Stock Exchange.
In of savings income, member states of the European Union are required to all other cases, an amount must be withheld on account of UK income tax provide to the tax authorities of other member states details of payments at the basic rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary of interest and other similar income paid by a person to an individual or by HM Revenue & Customs under the Treaty and except that the certain other persons resident in another member state, except that withholding obligation does not apply to payments to persons who the Austria and, prior to 1 January 2015, Luxembourg may instead impose company reasonably believes are within the charge to corporation tax or a withholding system for a transitional period unless during such period fall within various categories enjoying a special tax status including they elect otherwise.
charities and pension funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless HM Revenue & Customs directs otherwise.
Where An amending directive has been adopted which will, when implemented, interest has been paid under deduction of UK withholding tax, US amend and broaden the scope of the above requirements.
It will expand Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
the range of payments covered by the European Union Council Directive 2003 48 EC, in particular to include additional types of income payable on HM Revenue & Customs have powers in certain circumstances to obtain securities, and the circumstances in which payments must be reported or information in relation to interest and payments derived from securities.
The amending directive requires member HM Revenue & Customs may communicate this information to the tax states to adopt implementing legislation by 1 January 2016 to take effect authorities of other jurisdictions.
HM Revenue & Customs confirmed at around the time of the issue of the Disposal including redemption PROs that interest payments would not be treated as distributions for UK A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate US Holder tax purposes by reason of i the fact that interest may be deferred under will not give rise to any liability to UK tax on capital gains unless the US the terms of issue: or ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at Holder carries on a trade which for this purpose includes a profession or the time an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and the PROs are, or company which is 'associated' with the company or by a 'funded have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, carried on company'.
A company will be associated with the company if, broadly through such branch or agency.
speaking, it is part of the same group as the company.
A company will be a 'funded company' for these purposes if there are arrangements A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge to UK tax involving that company being put in funds directly or indirectly by the on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the US Holder is an company, or an entity associated with the company.
In this respect, HM individual or other non-corporate taxpayer and at any time in the relevant Revenue & Customs has confirmed that a company holding an interest in year of assessment or accounting period carries on a trade, profession or the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities with any company vocation in the UK through a branch or agency to which the PROs are associated with the company will not be a 'funded company' by virtue of attributable.
Annual tax charges Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to UK tax charges or tax relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from the PROs including on a disposal or redemption, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a trade in the UK through a UK permanent establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
501 Shareholder information Taxation for US Holders continued Inheritance tax Information reporting and backup withholding In relation to PROs held through Depository Trust Company or any other Payments on, and proceeds from the sale of, ordinary shares, ordinary clearing system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt in ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs that are made within the United States respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who is not or through certain U. S-related financial intermediaries may be subject to domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax information reporting and backup withholding unless i the US Holder is purposes: HM Revenue & Customs is known to consider that the situs of an exempt recipient or ii in the case of backup withholding, the US securities held in this manner is not necessarily determined by the place Holder provides a correct taxpayer identification number and certifies that where the securities are registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there it is not subject to backup withholding.
The amount of any backup may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer at withholding from a payment to a US Holder will be allowed as a credit less than market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
against the US Holders US federal income tax liability and may entitle it Inheritance tax is not generally chargeable on gifts to individuals made to a refund, provided that the required information is timely furnished to more than seven years before the death of the donor.
However, the Internal Revenue Service.
exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty see below.
US Holders should Foreign financial assets reporting consult their professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
Certain US Holders who are individuals and under proposed regulations, PROs beneficially owned by an individual, whose domicile is determined certain entities may be required to report information relating to the to be the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and companys securities, subject to certain exceptions including an who is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax exception for securities held in accounts maintained by US financial on the individual's death or on a lifetime transfer of the PRO, except in institutions.
US Holders are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding certain cases where the PRO i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the application of these rules in the US Holders particular circumstances.
the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States Exchange controls and was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business property of a The company has been advised that there are currently no UK laws, UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or iii pertains to a UK decrees or regulations which would prevent the import or export of fixed base of an individual used for the performance of independent capital, including the availability of cash or cash equivalents for use by personal services.
the Group, or the remittance of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK resident holders of the company's securities.
The Estate Tax Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case There are no restrictions under the Articles of Association of the company where the PRO is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the right of non-UK estate or gift tax.
resident owners to hold or, when entitled to vote, freely to vote the company's securities.
Stamp duty and SDRT No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the issue, Memorandum and Articles of Association transfer or redemption of the PROs.
The company's Memorandum and Articles of Association as in effect at the date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of Passive Foreign Investment Company PFIC considerations Companies of Scotland.
The Articles of Association were last amended In general, a foreign corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year in on 30 May 2012.
Copies can be obtained from Companies House in the which, after taking into account the income and assets of the corporation UK or from the Groups website rbs.
and certain subsidiaries pursuant to applicable 'look-through rules', either i at least 75% of its gross income is 'passive income' or ii at least 50% Incorporation and registration of the average quarterly value of its assets is attributable to assets that The company was incorporated and registered in Scotland under the produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income.
Companies Act 1948 as a limited company on 25 March 1968 under the The company does not believe that it was a PFIC for its 2014 taxable name National and Commercial Banking Group Limited, and changed its year.
Although interest income is generally passive income, a special rule name to The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Limited on 3 September allows banks to treat their banking business income as non-passive.
On 10 March 1982 it was re-registered under the Companies Acts qualify for this rule, a bank must satisfy certain requirements regarding its 1948 to 1980 as a public company with limited liability.
The company is licensing and activities.
The company's possible status as a PFIC is registered under Company No.
determined annually, however, and may be subject to change if the company fails to qualify under this special rule for any year in which a US Holder owned ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
If the company were to be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder owns ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs, US Holders would generally be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences and certain reporting obligations.
Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the potential application of the PFIC rules to the ownership and disposition of the company's ordinary shares, ordinary ADSs, preference ADSs or PROs.
502 Forward-looking statements Certain sections in this document contain forward-looking statements as changes, complexity and costs relating to the implementation of the that term is defined in the United States Private Securities Litigation Transformation Plan, the risks of lower revenues resulting from lower Reform Act of 1995, such as statements that include the words expect, customer retention and revenue generation as the Group refocuses on estimate, project, anticipate, believe, should, intend, plan, could, the UK as well as increasing competition.
In addition, there are other risks probability, risk, Value-at-Risk VaR, target, goal, objective, may, and uncertainties.
These include RBSs ability to attract and retain endeavour, outlook, optimistic, prospects and similar expressions or qualified personnel: uncertainties regarding the outcomes of legal, variations on these expressions.
regulatory and governmental actions and investigations that the Group is subject to and any resulting material adverse effect on the Group of In particular, this document includes forward-looking statements relating, unfavourable outcomes:: heightened regulatory and governmental but not limited to: The Royal Bank of Scotland Groups RBS scrutiny and the increasingly regulated environment in which the Group Transformation Plan which includes RBSs 2013 2014 strategic plan operates: uncertainty relating to how policies of the new government relating to the implementation of its new divisional and functional elected in the May 2015 UK election may impact RBS including a structure and the continuation of its balance sheet reduction programme possible referendum on the UKs membership of the EU: operational risks including its proposed divestments of Williams & Glyn and CFG, RBSs that are inherent in RBSs business and that could increase as RBS information technology and operational investment plan, the proposed implements its Transformation Plan: the potential negative impact on restructuring of RBSs CIB business and the restructuring of the Group as RBSs business of actual or perceived global economic and financial a result of the implementation of the regulatory ring-fencing regime, as market conditions and other global risks: how RBS will be increasingly well as restructuring, capital and strategic plans, divestments, impacted by UK developments as its operations become gradually more capitalisation, portfolios, net interest margin, capital and leverage ratios, focussed on the UK: uncertainties regarding RBS exposure to any liquidity, risk-weighted assets RWAs, RWA equivalents RWAe, Pillar weakening of economies within the EU and renewed threat of default by 2A, Maximum Distributable Amount MDA, total loss absorbing capital certain counties in the Eurozone: the risks resulting from RBS TLAC, minimum requirements for eligible liabilities MREL return on implementing the State Aid restructuring plan including with respect to the equity ROE, profitability, cost:income ratios, loan:deposit ratios, funding disposal of certain assets and businesses as announced or required as and risk profile: litigation, government and regulatory investigations part of the State Aid restructuring plan: the achievement of capital and including investigations relating to the setting of interest rates and foreign costs reduction targets: ineffective management of capital or changes to exchange trading and rate setting activities: costs or exposures borne by regulatory requirements relating to capital adequacy and liquidity: the RBS arising out of the origination or sale of mortgages or mortgageability to access sufficient sources of capital, liquidity and funding when backed securities in the US: RBSs future financial performance: the level required: deteriorations in borrower and counterparty credit quality: the and extent of future impairments and write-downs: and RBSs exposure extent of future write-downs and impairment charges caused by to political risks, credit rating risk and to various types of market risks, depressed asset valuations: the value and effectiveness of any credit such as interest rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and commodity and protection purchased by RBS: the impact of unanticipated turbulence in equity price risk.
These statements are based on current plans, interest rates, yield curves, foreign currency exchange rates, credit estimates, targets and projections, and are subject to inherent risks, spreads, bond prices, commodity prices, equity prices: basis, volatility uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to differ and correlation risks: changes in the credit ratings of RBS: changes to the materially from the future results expressed or implied by such forwardvaluation of financial instruments recorded at fair value: competition and looking statements.
For example, certain market risk disclosures are consolidation in the banking sector: regulatory or legal changes including dependent on choices relying on key model characteristics and those requiring any restructuring of RBSs operations : changes to the assumptions and are subject to various limitations.
By their nature, monetary and interest rate policies of central banks and other certain of the market risk disclosures are only estimates and, as a result, governmental and regulatory bodies: changes in UK and foreign laws, actual future gains and losses could differ materially from those that have regulations, accounting standards and taxes: impairments of goodwill: the been estimated.
high dependence of RBS operations on its information technology systems and its increasing exposure to cyber security threats: the Other factors that could adversely affect our results and the accuracy of reputational risks inherent in RBS operations: the risk that RBS may forward looking statements in this document include the risk factors and suffer losses due to employee misconduct: pension fund shortfalls: the other uncertainties discussed in Appendix 5 to this document.
These recoverability of deferred tax assets by the Group: HM Treasury include the significant risks for the Group presented by the execution of exercising influence over the operations of RBS: : limitations on, or the Transformation Plan: RBSs ability to successfully implement the additional requirements imposed on, RBSs activities as a result of HM various initiatives that are comprised in the Transformation Plan, Treasurys investment in RBS: and the success of RBS in managing the particularly the balance sheet reduction programme including the risks involved in the foregoing.
divestment of Williams & Glyn and its remaining stake in CFG, the proposed restructuring of its CIB business and the significant The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as restructuring undertaken by the Group as a result of the implementation of the date of this announcement, and RBS does not undertake to update of the ring fence: whether RBS will emerge from implementing the any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the Transformation Plan as a viable, competitive, customer focussed and date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
profitable bank: RBS ability to achieve its capital targets which depend on RBS success in reducing the size of its business: the cost and The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do complexity of the implementation of the ring-fence and the extent to not constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to which it will have a material adverse effect on RBS: the risk of failure to sell or solicitation of any offer to buy any securities or financial realise the benefit of RBSs substantial investments in its information instruments or any advice or recommendation with respect to such technology and operational infrastructure and systems, the significant securities or other financial instruments.
