Additional information 460 Financial summary 469 Exchange rates 470 Supervision 470 Description of property and equipment 471 Major shareholders 471 Material contracts 474 Risk factors 459 Additional information Financial summary RBS's financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Selected data under IFRS for each of the last five years are presented below.
2 Includes gain on redemption of own debt of 20 million 2013 - 175 million: 2012 - 454 million: 2011 - 255 million: 2010 - 553 million.
3 Includes own credit adjustments of 146 million loss 2013 - 120 million loss: 2012 - 4,649 million loss: 2011 - 1,914 million gain: 2010 - 242 million gain.
4 Includes write down of goodwill of 130 million 2013 - 1,059 million: 2012 - 18 million: 2011 - 80 million: 2010 - 1 million.
5 Includes sovereign debt impairment of 1,099 million and related interest rate hedge adjustments of 169 million in 2011.
6 Includes 3,994 million loss provision in 2014 relating to the transfer of Citizens to disposal groups.
2 Return on average total assets represents loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders as a percentage of average total assets.
3 Return on average owners equity represents loss attributable to equity owners expressed as a percentage of average shareholder funds.
4 Return on average ordinary and B shareholders' equity represents loss attributable to ordinary and B shareholders expressed as a percentage of average ordinary and B shareholders' equity.
5 For this purpose, earnings consist of income before tax and non-controlling interests, plus fixed charges less the unremitted income of associated undertakings share of profits less dividends received.
Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits and debt securities in issue, as appropriate, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor one third of total rental expenses.
461 Additional information Financial summary continued Analysis of loans and advances to customers The following table analyses gross loans and advances to customers by remaining maturity, geographical area location of office and type of customer.
Variable rate credit extended to RBSs corporate and commercial customers includes bullet and instalment loans, finance lease agreements and overdrafts: interest is generally charged at a margin over a benchmark rate such as LIBOR or base rate.
Interest on variable rate retail loans may also be based on LIBOR or base rate: other variable rate retail lending is charged at variable interest rates set by RBS such as its mortgage standard variable rate in the UK.
462 Additional information Loan impairment provisions For details of the factors considered in determining the amount of provisions, refer to the accounting policy on page 353 and Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 359.
The following table shows the movements in loan impairment provisions.
463 Additional information Financial summary continued 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Closing customer provisions as a % of gross loans and advances to customers 2 UK 2.9% 3.8% 3.1% 2.6% 2.5% Overseas 13.9% 11.0% 8.2% 7.1% 5.3% Total 5.0% 6.0% 4.7% 4.2% 3.5% Customer releases charge to income statement as a % of gross loans and advances to customers 2 UK 1.3% 0.8% 1.0% 1.1% Overseas 1.9% 3.5% 1.9% 2.3% 2.3% Total 0.4% 2.0% 1.1% 1.4% 1.6% Average loans and advances to customers - gross 472,545 509,937 541,588 578,057 610,131 As a % of average loans and advances to customers during the year Total customer provisions charged to income statement 0.3% 1.6% 0.9% 1.2% 1.3% Amounts written-off net of recoveries - customers 1.1% 0.8% 0.7% 0.7% 0.9% Notes: 1 Includes 10 million release relating to loans and advances to banks 2013 - 15 million release: 2012 - 23 million charge: 2011 - nil: 2010 - 13 million release.
Analysis of closing customer loan impairment provisions The following table analyses customer loan impairment provisions by geographical area and type of UK customer.
Analysis of recoveries The following table analyses recoveries of amounts written-off by geographical area and type of UK customer.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m UK Manufacturing 2 1 1 4 2 Construction 9 1 10 6 1 Finance 1 Service industries and business activities 11 21 16 10 7 Property 29 5 33 8 4 Residential mortgages 6 9 6 Personal lending 26 48 93 111 128 Finance leases and instalment credit 2 4 10 3 Total UK 77 78 164 158 151 Overseas 128 178 177 369 260 Total recoveries 205 256 341 527 411 465 Additional information Financial summary continued Risk elements in lending Risk elements in lending REIL comprises impaired loans and accruing loans past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprises loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected.
The coverage ratio reduces if the loan written-off carries a higher than average provision and increases if the loan written-off carries a lower than average provision.
2 Impaired loans at 31 December 2014 include 7,052 million 2013 - 7,687 million: 2012 - 6,009 million of loans subject to forbearance granted during the year.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised under the original terms of impaired loans UK 404 571 665 636 579 Overseas 165 601 805 811 648 569 1,172 1,470 1,447 1,227 Interest on impaired loans included in net interest income UK 146 196 255 235 216 Overseas 101 195 221 249 239 247 391 476 484 455 Potential problem loans Potential problem loans PPL are loans for which an impairment event has taken place but no impairment loss is expected.
This category is used for advances which are not past due 90 days or revolving credit facilities where identification as 90 days overdue is not feasible.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Potential problem loans 1,206 789 807 739 633 Both REIL and PPL are reported gross and take no account of the value of any security held which could reduce the eventual loss should it occur, nor of any provision marked.
Therefore impaired assets which are highly collateralised, such as mortgages, will have a low coverage ratio of provisions held against the reported impaired balance.
466 Additional information Forbearance The table below shows loans granted forbearance during the year.
These loans are unimpaired: either the loan was performing before and after the granting of forbearance or the loan was non-performing before but subsequently transferred to the performing book.
Loans with impairment provisions subject to forbearance continue to be reported as impaired loans.
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Loans granted forbearance 6,091 7,901 11,196 7,674 5,758 Notes: 1 Wholesale loans subject to forbearance include only those arrangements above thresholds set individually by the segments, ranging from nil to 3 million.
2 For 2014, wholesale loans subject to forbearance were 3,040 million 2013 - 4,305 million refer to page 249 and secured retail loans subject to forbearance were 3,051 million 2013 - 3,596 million refer to pages 261 to 273.
Unsecured retail loans subject to forbearance are not included.
The balance of unsecured retail loans subject to forbearance amounted to 244 million 2013 - 272 million.
Cross border exposures Cross border exposures are loans and advances including finance leases and instalment credit receivables and other monetary assets, such as debt securities, including non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents.
RBS monitors the geographical breakdown of these exposures based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of ultimate risk.
Cross border exposures exclude exposures to local residents in local currencies.
The table below sets out cross border exposures greater than 0.5% of RBSs total assets.
None of these countries have experienced repayment difficulties that have required restructuring of outstanding debt.
Over 3 Over 6 months months Within but within but within Over 3 months 6 months 12 months 12 months Total 2014 m m m m m UK based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 208 351 421 149 1,129 Other time deposits 18,552 1,521 2,995 2,573 25,641 Overseas based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 1 1 Other time deposits 4,773 965 875 1,343 7,956 23,534 2,837 4,291 4,065 34,727 468 Additional information Short-term borrowings Short-term borrowings comprise repurchase agreements, borrowings from financial institutions, commercial paper CP and certificates of deposit CD.
Derivative collateral received from financial institutions is excluded from the table, as are certain long-term borrowings.
2 Excludes Federal Home Loan Bank long-term borrowings of nil at 31 December 2014 2013 - 2 billion: 2012 - 1 billion : and 2014 average of 1 billion 2013 and 2012 - 1 billion.
Balances are generally based on monthly data.
Average interest rates during the year are computed by dividing total interest expense by the average amount borrowed.
Weighted average interest rates at year end are for a single day and as such may reflect one-day market distortions, which may not be indicative of generally prevailing rates.
Other contractual cash obligations The table below summarises other contractual cash obligations by payment date.
While RBS has given commitments to provide these funds, some facilities may be subject to certain conditions being met by the counterparty.
RBS does not expect all facilities to be drawn, and some may lapse before drawdown.
Exchange rates The following tables show the Noon Buying Rate in New York for cable transfers in sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
2 The rates used for translating US dollars into sterling in the preparation of the financial statements.
469 Additional information Anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and economic sanctions Supervision regulations are a major focus of the US government for financial United Kingdom institutions and are rigorously enforced by the US government agencies.
The home supervisors for RBS are the Prudential Regulation Authority The Group is in the process of selling down its holding in Citizens PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
As with all significant Financial Group, but currently retains a sufficient ownership stake as to banking institutions, the PRA is the consolidated supervisor of RBS.
The come under the regulatory arrangements described below.
PRA, an operationally independent subsidiary of the Bank of England, is responsible for promoting the safety and soundness of systemically RBSs US bank and non-bank subsidiaries, and RBS's US branches are important financial institutions in the UK.
The FCA's overall objective is to also subject to supervision and regulation by a variety of other US ensure financial markets function well.
This is supported by its regulatory agencies.
Citizens Bank, NA is supervised by the Office of the operational objectives of: securing an appropriate degree of protection for Comptroller of the Currency, which is charged with the regulation and consumers: protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial supervision of nationally chartered banks.
Citizens Bank, NA owns system: and promoting effective competition in the interests of Citizens Securities, Inc. a US registered broker dealer subject to consumers.
regulation and supervision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority As at 31 December 2014, 16 companies in RBS, spanning a range of FINRA with respect to its securities activities.
Citizens Bank of financial services sectors banking, insurance and investment business, Pennsylvania is subject to the regulation and supervision of the US were authorised to conduct financial activities in the UK.
The UK Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC and the Pennsylvania authorised banks in RBS Group include The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Department of Banking.
Both banks are subject to supervision and National Westminster Bank Plc, Coutts & Co and Ulster Bank Limited.
regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CFPB.
Citizens Wholesale activities, other than Treasury activities, are concentrated in Financial Group, Inc. is under the supervision of the Federal Reserve the Corporate & Institutional Banking business, and are undertaken under Bank of Boston as a bank holding company.
RBSs Connecticut branch is the names of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and National Westminster supervised by the Connecticut Department of Banking and the Federal Bank Plc.
Retail banking activities in England, Scotland and Wales are Reserve Bank of Boston.
managed by the Personal & Business Banking business, and by Ulster Bank Limited in Northern Ireland.
The banking service in the Republic of The Group's primary US broker dealer, RBS Securities Inc. RBSSI, Ireland is provided by Ulster Bank Ireland Limited, which is supervised by formerly known as Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. is also subject to the Central Bank of Ireland and the European Central Bank under the regulation and supervision mainly by the SEC and FINRA with respect to Single Supervisory Mechanism.
The futures activities of RBSSI are subject to regulation and oversight mainly by the US Commodity Futures Trading Investment management business is principally undertaken by Commission CFTC, National Futures Association NFA and the companies in the Commercial & Private Banking business, including Chicago Mercantile Exchange Group CME.
RBSSI is also supervised Coutts & Co, Adam & Company Investment Management Limited, and in by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
the Corporate & Institutional Banking business, through RBS Asset Management Limited and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc is a provisionally registered swap dealer: it too is subject to oversight by the CFTC and the NFA.
RBS is subject to extensive regulations that impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and Other jurisdictions controls to ensure compliance with the rules and regulations to which RBS operates in over 40 countries through a network of branches, local they are subject.
banks and non-bank subsidiaries and these activities are subject to supervision in most cases by a local regulator or central bank.
United States The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is both a bank holding company Description of property and equipment and a financial holding company within the meaning of the US Bank RBS operates from a number of locations worldwide, principally in the Holding Company Act of 1956.
As such, it is subject to the regulation and UK.
At 31 December 2014, the Royal Bank and NatWest had 563 and supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 1,286 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Ulster Bank has a footprint the Federal Reserve.
Among other things, the Group's direct and of 199 branches and an extensive network of business banking offices indirect activities and investments in the United States are limited to across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Citizens Financial those that are 'financial in nature' or 'incidental' or 'complementary' to a Group, Inc. had 1,218 retail banking offices including in-store branches financial activity, as determined by the Federal Reserve.
The Group is covering Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, Michigan, New also required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island acquiring directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% and Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned by the of any class of the voting shares of any US bank or holding company.
Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held under leases with Under current Federal Reserve policy, the Group is required to act as a unexpired terms of over 50 years.
RBS's principal properties include its source of financial strength for its US bank subsidiaries.
Among other headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh, its principal offices in London at things, this source of strength obligation could require the Group to inject 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House administration capital into any of its US bank subsidiaries if any of them became centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
Total capital expenditure on premises excluding investment properties, computers and other equipment in the year ended 31 December 2014 was 433 million 2013 - 571 million: 2012 - 801 million.
470 Additional information Major shareholders On entering into the Contingent Subscription in 2009, the company In December 2008, The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majesty's Treasury recognised the present value of the annual fees payable under the HM Treasury acquired 22,854 million ordinary shares of 25p each agreement 1,208 million as a liability and debited a contingent capital representing 57.9% of the company's issued ordinary share capital.
Following termination of the Contingent During 2009, HM Treasury acquired a further 16,791 million ordinary Subscription, the outstanding final annual fee of 320 million was not shares of 25p each raising their holding to 70.3% of the company's payable.
The balance sheet liability for this fee was extinguished with a issued ordinary share capital.
In December 2009, HM Treasury acquired 51 billion B shares in the The company gave certain representations and warranties to HM company representing the entire issued B share capital.
As a result of the Treasury on the date of the Acquisition and Contingent Capital ordinary share sub-division and consolidation which took place in June Agreement, on the date the circular was posted to shareholders, on the 2012, HM Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares became first date on which all of the conditions precedent were satisfied, or 3,964 million ordinary shares of 1 each.
At 31 December 2014, HM waived, and on the date of the Acquisitions.
Treasurys holding in the companys ordinary shares was 62.3%.
The company agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for its expenses incurred As far as the company is aware, there have been no significant changes in connection with the Acquisitions.
in the percentage ownership of major shareholders of the company's ordinary shares, B shares or preference shares during the three years The company agreed to a number of undertakings, including with respect ended 25 February 2015.
All shareholders within a class of the to: i restrictions on the payment of dividends or other distributions on, company's shares have the same voting rights.
and the redemption of, certain securities: ii expectations regarding the As at 31 December 2014, almost all of the company's US$ denominated repurchase of the B shares by the company: iii negotiating in good faith preference shares and American Depository Shares representing to maintain the status of the B shares and Dividend Access Share as ordinary shares were held by shareholders registered in the US.
All other Core Tier 1 capital: and iv restrictions in relation to the company's share shares were predominantly held by shareholders registered outside the premium account.
HM Treasury has agreed to waive its statutory pre-emption rights arising Material contracts out of the B shares and the Dividend Access Share in respect of any The company and its subsidiaries are party to various contracts in the future issue of equity securities by the company other than B shares and ordinary course of business.
Material contracts include the following: has agreed to vote its B shares and the Dividend Access Share, as applicable, in favour of each special resolution to disapply its preB Share Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement emption rights under the B shares and or the Dividend Access Share On 26 November 2009, the company and HM Treasury entered into the then held by HM Treasury every time they arise in respect of any such Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement pursuant to which HM future issue.
"The pre-emption rights arising out of the B shares and the Treasury subscribed for the initial B shares and the Dividend Access Dividend Access Share have also been disapplied in the Articles of Share the ""Acquisitions"" and agreed the terms of HM Treasury's Association."
"subscription the Contingent Subscription for an additional 8 billion in aggregate in the form of further B shares the ""Contingent B shares"", HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to exercise its option which will be issued on the same terms as the initial B shares."
The to convert B shares into ordinary shares to the extent that it holds more Acquisitions were subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, than 75 per cent of the ordinary shares of the company or to the extent including the company having obtained the approval of its shareholders in that the exercise of such option would result in it holding more than 75 relation to the Acquisitions.
per cent of the ordinary shares of the company.
The company and HM Treasury further agreed the terms of the 8 billion HM Treasury has agreed that it shall not be entitled to vote the B shares Contingent Subscription of the Contingent B shares in the Acquisition and or the Dividend Access Share to the extent that votes cast on such B Contingent Capital Agreement.
"For a period of five years from 22 shares and the Dividend Access Share, together with any other votes December 2009 or, if earlier, until the occurrence of a termination event which HM Treasury is entitled to cast in respect of any ordinary shares or until the companys decision with PRA formerly FSA consent to held by or on behalf of HM Treasury, would exceed 75 per cent of the terminate such Contingent Subscription the ""Contingent Period"", if the total votes eligible to be cast on a resolution proposed at a general Core Tier 1 ratio of the company fell below five per cent and if certain meeting of the company."
other conditions were met HM Treasury committed to subscribe for the Contingent B shares in no fewer than two tranches of 6 billion and 2 For as long as it is a substantial shareholder of the company within the billion or such smaller amounts as the company and HM Treasury may meaning of the UKLA's Listing Rules, HM Treasury has undertaken not agree.
Any unused portion of the 8 billion could have been subscribed to vote on related party transaction resolutions at general meetings and in one or more further tranches.
to direct that its affiliates do not so vote.
On December 16, 2013, the company announced that, having received approval from the PRA, it had terminated the 8 billion Contingent Subscription.
RBS was able to cancel the Contingent Subscription as a result of the actions announced in the second half of 2013 to further strengthen its capital position.
471 Additional information Material contracts continued Sale of RBS England & Wales and NatWest Scotland branch based DAS Retirement Agreement business The Dividend Access Share DAS was created in 2009 see B Share On 27 September 2013, RBS agreed a 600 million pre-IPO investment Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement above.
On 9 April 2014, with a consortium of investors led by Corsair Capital and Centerbridge the Company entered into the DAS Retirement Agreement DRA with Partners, in relation to its RBS England & Wales and NatWest Scotland HMT which was approved by the Companys shareholders on 25 June branch based business.
Following completion of the operational and legal 2014.
Pursuant to the terms of the DRA the company has paid HMT an separation of the business into a standalone bank to be branded Williams initial DAS dividend of 320 million.
A further 1.18 billion is payable to & Glyn, RBS will pursue an Initial Public Offering IPO.
The pre-IPO HMT together with the initial dividend, the DAS Retirement Dividend investment took the form of a 600 million bond, which was issued by the Amount, in the form of one or more further DAS dividends, at the Royal Bank on 21 October 2013, which will be exchangeable for a discretion of the directors of the company.
Any unpaid portion of the DAS significant minority interest in Williams & Glyn at the time of the IPO.
The Retirement Dividend Amount will be subject to an increase of 5 percent.
bond will convert into Williams & Glyn shares at the IPO price, subject to per annum, calculated on a daily accruals basis from 1 January 2016, if a minimum ownership level which will be linked to the tangible book value such portion has not been paid before 1 January 2016 and an increase of of Williams & Glyn prior to the IPO, and in any case no more than a stake 10 per cent.
per annum, calculated on a daily accruals basis from 1 of 49%.
To the extent the maximum ownership level is reached, the bond January 2021, on any part of the balance that has not been paid before 1 will be partially redeemed in cash such that investors will receive a total January 2021.
Once the DAS Retirement Dividend Amount subject to value of 600 million of cash and shares at the IPO price.
At the IPO, any increase has been paid, the DAS will lose its enhanced dividend subject to RBSs consent, investors will have the option to acquire up to rights and will become a single B share.
10% additionally at the IPO price, subject to their pro forma ownership being no more than 49% in aggregate.
RBS provided a 270 million State Aid Commitment Deed secured financing package to the investor consortium in relation to the As a result of the State Aid granted to the company, it was required to investment.
work with HM Treasury to submit a State Aid restructuring plan to the European Commission EC, which was then approved under the State Separation and Shareholder Agreement SSA with Citizens Financial Aid rules.
The company agreed a series of measures which Group, Inc. supplemented the measures in the company's strategic plan.
On 26 September 2014, the company entered into an SSA with Citizens Financial Group, Inc. CFG immediately prior to the completion of the RBS entered into a State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury at the IPO of CFG.
The SSA governs the relationship between the parties time of the initial EC decision and following the European Commissions during the divestment of the companys shareholding in CFG.
The SSA approval of amendments to the restructuring plan in April 2014 entered will remain in place until the date on which the company ceases to own at into a Revised State Aid Commitment Deed with HM Treasury together least 4.99% of CFGs issued and outstanding common stock or, if earlier, referred to as the State Aid Commitment Deeds.
the date on which the company receives written notice from the Federal Reserve Board that the company is not deemed to control CFG for the These provide that RBS will comply or procure compliance with these purposes of the US Bank Holding Company Act.
Certain provisions of the measures and behavioural commitments.
RBS agreed to do all acts and SSA will terminate upon a reduction of the companys ownership of CFG take all measures to ensure HM Treasury's compliance with its below specified thresholds.
The SSA details, inter alia, the governance of obligations under any EC decision approving State Aid to RBS.
"CFG and certain rights of the company relating to the appointment of The State Aid Commitment Deeds also provide that if the EC adopts a directors, members of board committees and certain executives of CFG, decision that the UK Government must recover any State Aid a corporate actions requiring the consent of the company, information ""Repayment Decision"" and the recovery order of the Repayment rights and rights of access to CFG personnel and compliance covenants."
Decision has not been annulled or suspended by the General Court or The SSA includes mutual indemnities for breach of the SSA, losses the European Court of Justice, then RBS must repay HM Treasury any arising from the indemnifying partys business and, in the case of CFG, aid ordered to be recovered under the Repayment Decision.
losses arising from material inaccuracies in CFGs filings with governmental authorities and securities exchanges excluding any The State Aid Commitment Deeds also provide for RBS's undertakings in liabilities arising out of information provided by the company for inclusion respect of State Aid to be modified in certain limited circumstances.
therein, with respect to which the company has agreed to indemnify However, HM Treasury has undertaken that it will not, without the CFG.
consent of RBS, agree modifications to RBS's undertakings with respect to State Aid which are significantly more onerous to RBS than those granted in order to obtain the State Aid approval.
State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed Under the State Aid Costs Reimbursement Deed, RBS has agreed to reimburse HM Treasury for fees, costs and expenses associated with the State Aid and State Aid approval.
472 Additional information HMT and UKFI Relationship Deed On 7 November 2014, in order to comply with an amendment to the UK Listing Rules, the company entered into a Relationship Deed with HM Treasury and UK Financial Investments Limited in relation to the companys obligations under the UK Listing Rules to put in place an agreement with any controlling shareholder as defined for these purposes in the Listing Rules.
The Relationship Deed covers the three independence provisions mandated by the Listing Rules: i that contracts between the company and HM Treasury or any of its subsidiaries will be arm's length and normal commercial arrangements, ii that neither HM Treasury nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and iii neither HM Treasury nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
473 Additional information Risk factors In addition, the Group is in the process of implementing the new Set out below are certain risk factors which could adversely affect the divisional and functional structure put into place in 2014 and, as a result Group's future results, its financial condition and prospects and cause of the restructuring of its CIB business, is now taking further steps to them to be materially different from what is expected.
The factors implement a number of strategic initiatives which will result in a further discussed below and elsewhere in this report should not be regarded as reduction of the Groups balance sheet as well as the scope of its a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and activities.
Implementation by the Group of these initiatives will require uncertainties facing the Group.
significant restructuring of the Group at the same time that it will also be implementing structural changes to comply with regulatory changes The Groups ability to achieve its capital targets will depend on the including those introduced under the UK Financial Services Banking success of the Group's plans to further reduce the size of its business Reform Act 2013 the Banking Reform Act 2013, including its ringthrough the restructuring of its corporate and institutional banking fencing requirements the ring-fence.
See also Implementation of the business and make further divestments of certain of its portfolios and ring-fence in the UK which will begin in 2015 will result in material businesses including its remaining stake in Citizens Financial Group structural changes to the Groups business.
These changes could have a In response to the global economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 material adverse effect on the Group.
There can be no assurance that and the weak economic environment that followed, the Group engaged in the Group will be able to successfully implement this restructuring a financial and core business restructuring focused on achieving programme together with other changes required of the Group in the time appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, frames contemplated or at all, and, as a result, the Group may not be reducing reliance on wholesale funding, lowering exposure to capitalable to meet its capital targets.
intensive businesses and meeting new capital standard requirements.
In November 2013, following HM Treasurys assessment of the merits of The Groups ability to dispose of businesses and certain portfolios, creating an external bad bank to hold certain assets of the Group, the including the further disposal of its remaining stake in CFG and potential Group committed to take a series of actions to further derisk its business disposals associated with the restructuring of its CIB business, and the and strengthen its capital position.
In order to strengthen its capital price achieved for such disposals will be dependent on prevailing position and CET1 ratio, the Group decided to accelerate the divestment economic and market conditions, which remain volatile.
As a result there of Citizens Financial Group CFG, the Groups US banking subsidiary, is no assurance that the Group will be able to sell or run down as by selling off 28.75% in an initial public offering in September 2014, and applicable the businesses it is now planning to sell or exit or asset fully divesting its interest in CFG by the end of 2016: and to intensify portfolios it is seeking to sell either on favourable economic terms to the management actions to reduce risk weighted assets including through Group or at all.
Material tax or other contingent liabilities could arise on an accelerated divestment of certain of the non-core assets transferred to the disposal or run-down of assets or businesses and there is no RBS Capital Resolution RCR.
assurance that any conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or consents and approvals required will be obtained in a timely manner, or In the first quarter of 2015, the Group announced its intention to at all.
The Group may be exposed to deteriorations in businesses or restructure its corporate and institutional banking CIB business to portfolios being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its focus on UK corporate and financial institutions with a targeted presence completion, which period may span many months.
In addition, the Group in selected western European customer segments.
The future CIB model may be exposed to certain risks, including risks arising out of ongoing will: liabilities and obligations, breaches of covenants, representations and focus on the Groups leading positions in UK rates, debt capital warranties, indemnity claims, transitional services arrangements and markets and foreign exchange: redundancy or other transaction related costs.
retain two trading hubs in the US and Singapore to support the main London trading operation: The occurrence of any of the risks described above could negatively exit central and eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and affect the Groups ability to implement its strategic plan and achieve its substantially reduce its presence in Asia and in the US: and capital targets and could have a material adverse effect on the Groups complete the run-down of US asset-backed products.
business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
There can also be no assurance that if the Group is able to Following the decision to refine the CIB business model, the Group has execute its new strategic plan that the new strategy will ultimately be decided to lift its capital targets and move to a CET1 ratio of around 13% successful or beneficial to the Group.
during the restructuring period higher than the targets of 11% by 31 December 2015 and above 12% by the end of 2016 previously announced.
474 Additional information Implementation of the ring-fence in the UK which will begin in 2015 will The Group intends to establish a ring-fence bank RFB for its result in material structural changes to the Groups business.
These banking services while the non-ring-fence group NRFB will hold changes could have a material adverse effect on the Group the Groups remaining CIB activities, the operations of RBS The UK Governments White Paper on Banking Reform published in International and some corporate banking activities that are not September 2012 outlined material structural reforms in the UK banking permitted activities for the RFB and will be the remaining businesses industry.
The measures were drawn in large part from the following completion of the restructuring of the Groups CIB recommendations of the Independent Commission on Banking ICB, business.
The establishment of the RFB and the NRFB will require which in its final report published in 2012, included the implementation of a significant legal and organisational restructuring of the Group and a ring-fence of retail banking operations.
The implementation of the ringthe transfer of large numbers of customers between legal entities.
fencing of retail banking operations was introduced under the Banking The scale and complexity of completing this process and the Reform Act 2013.
The Banking Reform Act 2013 provided primary operational and legal challenges that will need to be overcome will enabling legislation in the short term with a view to completing the pose significant execution risks for the Group.
The legal legislative framework for the ring-fence of retail banking operations by restructuring and migration of customers will have a material impact May 2015, requiring compliance as soon as practicable thereafter and on how the Group conducts its business and the Group is unable to setting a final deadline for full implementation by 2019.
In June 2014, HM predict how some customers may react to any requirement to deal Treasury published two statutory instruments, which were passed by with both the RFB and NRFB to obtain certain products and Parliament in July 2014, setting out the detail of the ring-fencing regime, services.
Such implementation will be costly and although final specifying which entities will be ring-fenced banks and the activities and implementation is not required until 2019, there is no certainty that services that ring-fenced banks can, and cannot, conduct which came the Group will be able to complete the legal restructuring and into force on 1 January 2015.
In October 2014, the PRA published its first migration of customers to the RFB or NFRB, as applicable, such that consultation paper CP19 14 on the PRA's ring-fencing rules, focusing the ring-fence exercise is completed on time or in accordance with on legal structure, governance and continuity of services and facilities.
future regulatory rules for which there is currently significant The PRA requested that all firms expected to be affected by ring-fencing, uncertainty.
including the Group, submit a preliminary plan of their anticipated legal and operating structures to their supervisors by 6 January 2015, which As part of the establishment of the RFB, it will be necessary for the the Group has done.
The PRA will carry out further consultations during RFB to operate independently from the NRFB and an entirely new 2015 with the Group and other affected UK banks and is expected corporate governance structure will need to be put in place by the publish its final rules and supervisory statements during 2016.
Group to ensure the RFBs independence.
These requirements have implications for how the Group sets up its board and committee Although final rules and supervisory statements will not be available until corporate governance structure and the Group cannot predict how later in 2015 and early 2016, based on the proposals put forward by the the Group will function as a public listed company with a subsidiary Group to the PRA and the FCA to implement the ring-fence, the Group the RFB that will have an independent board and committee has identified a number of material risks associated with such structure.
In addition, the Group will need to revise its operations implementation in addition to the uncertainty associated with starting to infrastructure so as to establish an appropriate level of segregation plan implementation before final rules and guidance are in place.
These of the infrastructure of the RFB in areas such as information risks will be exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing restructuring technology IT infrastructure, human resources and the efforts.
management of treasury operations, including capital and liquidity.
The Group will also need to evaluate, among other things, the tax exposure of each of the RFB and NRFB, as well as the impact of the ring-fence on intra-group funding and the credit ratings and external funding arrangements of each of these entities.
As this structure has never been tested, the Group cannot provide any assurances regarding its ability to successfully implement such a structure.
Although the intention is to establish corporate governance and operations in accordance with applicable rules although not yet finalised that are as cost efficient as possible, the effects of operating the Group, the RFB and the NRFB in this manner could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
475 Additional information Risk factors continued The 2013 2014 Strategic Plan, the restructuring of the Groups CIB In order to comply with the ring-fence requirements, from 2026 it will business, the implementation of a ring-fence compliant structure and the not be possible for the RFB and the NRFB to participate in the same IT and operational investment programme as described below pension plan.
As a result, it will be necessary for either the RFB or hereinafter collectively referred to as the Transformation Plan.
With the NRFB to leave the pension plan which will trigger certain legal and implementation of the Transformation Plan, and in particular the regulatory obligations.
Although the Group will have a number of restructuring of the Groups CIB business and implementation of the options available to it to meet its obligations resulting from the regulatory ring-fence regime coming into force in the UK, the Group is separation, it is expected that the costs of separation will be entering a further period of major restructuring, that will require significant material, including possibly increasing annual cash contributions resource and management attention over the next four years, with the required to be made into the Groups pension plans.
See The intent to continue simplifying the Groups business, making the bank Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension safer by narrowing its business focus, further strengthening its capital schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover position and improving its customer offering.
potential obligations and to satisfy ring-fencing requirements.
Each aspect of the implementation of the Transformation Plan carries Implementation of the ring-fence proposals in the UK will result in major material risks.
See also Implementation by the Group of the various changes to the Groups corporate structure, to the delivery of its business initiatives and programmes which form part of the Groups activities conducted in the UK and other jurisdictions where the Group will Transformation Plan subjects the Group to increased and material operate, as well as changes to the Groups business model.
In addition, although the goal is to emerge as a simpler, required to implement the ring-fence of its retail and certain other core safer, customer focused and profitable bank, the aggregate business of banking activities in the UK from other activities of the Group as well as the Group will be materially smaller and different than the institution that restructuring other operations within the Group in order to comply with the entered the financial crisis as one of the largest and most diverse new rules and regulations are extraordinarily complex and will take an financial institutions in the world.
On completion of the Transformation extended period of time to put into place.
Implementation will be costly Plan in 2019 the Group will be primarily a UK and Western Europe and there can be no assurance that the ring-fence of the RFB and the focused bank with a much less diverse group of businesses, products NRFB will be completed on time to meet the regulatory deadline in 2019. and services.
It will service a much smaller group of customers, including As a result, the implementation of the ring-fence could have a material large corporate and financial institutions, with its focus and its potential adverse effect on the Groups reputation, results of operations, financial for profitability and growth largely dependent on its success with its retail condition and prospects.
and SME customers in the UK.
The Group continues to implement certain divestment and restructuring This smaller customer base and geographic concentration also carry activities announced in 2013 and 2014 as part of its 2013 2014 Strategic material business risks.
As a result, in addition to the execution risks Plan but will now enter a further period of major restructuring through the associated with completion of the Transformation Plan there can be no implementation of the regulatory regime relating to the ring-fence of assurance that even if the Group executes the Transformation Plan it will financial institutions by 2019 and the restructuring of the Groups CIB prove to be a successful strategy or that the Group, on completion of the business.
Although the goals of this long period of restructuring are to Transformation Plan, will be a viable, competitive, customer focused and emerge as a less complex and safer bank there can be no assurance that profitable bank.
For a further description of the risks associated with the the final results will be successful and that the Group will be a viable, various initiatives comprised in the Transformation Plan, see The competitive, customer focused and profitable bank Groups ability to achieve its capital targets will depend on the success of In the third quarter of 2013 and in 2014, the Group revised its strategic the Group's plans to further reduce the size of its business through the plan by implementing its new divisional and functional structure and restructuring of its corporate and institutional banking business and make embarked on a major investment program to upgrade the Groups further divestments of certain of its portfolios and businesses including its operations and IT infrastructure the 2013 2014 Strategic Plan.
The remaining stake in Citizens Financial Group, Implementation of the ring- 2013 2014 Strategic Plan built on the core business restructuring fence in the UK which will begin in 2015 will result in material structural implemented by the Group after the financial crisis which initially focused changes to the Groups business.
These changes could have a material on reducing the size of the Groups balance sheet, disposing of the adverse effect on the Group, The Group is currently implementing a higher risk and capital intensive assets in RCR and strengthening the number of significant investment and rationalisation initiatives as part of Groups capital position, including though the full divestment of the the Groups IT and operational investment programme.
Should such Groups interest in CFG.
The 2013 2014 Strategic Plan was intended to investment and rationalisation initiatives fail to achieve the expected reduce the size of the Groups business, mainly within the Markets results, it could have a material adverse impact on the Groups division, and further strengthen its capital position in response to operations and its ability to retain or grow its customer business.
Failure continuing regulatory change and simplifying the Group by replacing the of the Transformation Plan to result in a viable, competitive, customer previous divisional structure with three customer facing franchises focused and profitable bank would have a material adverse effect on the focused on the UK and a smaller group of UK based customers.
Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
476 Additional information The Group is currently implementing a number of significant investment Implementation of the Transformation Plan is expected to result in and rationalisation initiatives as part of the Groups IT and operational significant costs, mainly in connection with the Groups restructuring investment programme.
Should such investment and rationalisation of its CIB business, which costs will be incremental to current plans initiatives fail to achieve the expected results, it could have a material and exclude potential losses on the sale of financial assets and adverse impact on the Groups operations and its ability to retain or grow transfer of financial liabilities.
Due to material uncertainties and its customer business factors outside the Groups control, the costs of implementation The intent of the 2013 2014 Strategic Plan and of the restructuring of the could be materially higher than currently contemplated.
One of the Groups CIB business is to further simplify and downsize the Group with objectives of the Transformation Plan is also to achieve a mediuman increased focus on service to its customers.
Such initiatives are being term reduction in annual underlying costs i. e. excluding combined and supplemented with significant investments in technology restructuring and conduct-related charges.
Due to material and more efficient support functions intended to contribute to delivering uncertainties and factors outside the Groups control, this level of significant improvements in the Groups Return on Equity and costs: cost saving may not be achieved within the planned timescale or at income ratio in the longer term as well as improve the resilience, any time.
accessibility and product offering of the Group.
The Transformation Plan includes assumptions on levels of The Group started implementing an investment programme of 750 customer retention and revenue generation from the new business million in 2013 expected to run through 2015 to materially upgrade its IT model.
Due to material uncertainties and factors outside the capability in the UK, to enhance the digital services provided to its bank Groups control, including normal levels of market fluctuation, this customers and also improve the reliability and resilience of the IT level of revenue may not be achieved in the timescale envisaged or systems following a number of system failures in the past couple of at any time.
This investment in the Groups IT capability is intended to address the material increase in customer use of online and mobile technology for The Group will be reliant on attracting and retaining qualified banking over the past few years as well as provide the capability to employees to manage the implementation of the Transformation continue to grow such services in the future.
Increasingly many of the Plan and, in particular, the restructuring of the Groups CIB business products and services offered by the Group are, and will become, and to oversee the implementation of the ring-fence and operate in technology intensive and the Groups ability to develop such services has the new ring-fence environment.
No assurance can be given that it become increasingly important to retaining and growing the Groups will be able to attract and retain such employees.
See also The customer business in the UK.
Group may be unable to attract or retain senior management including members of the board and other skilled personnel of the If the Group is unable to offer competitive, attractive and innovative appropriate qualification and competence.
The Group may also products that are also profitable, it could lose market share, incur losses suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations.
on some or all of its activities and lose opportunities for growth.
In addition to upgrading its current IT infrastructure, the Group is also The significant reorganisation and restructuring resulting from the undertaking a major project to rationalise its legacy IT infrastructure, combined initiatives constituting the Transformation Plan will aiming to lower costs and improve resilience.
With the implementation of fundamentally change the Groups business.
Implementation will be the ring-fence regulatory regime there will be further need to manage the disruptive and will increase operational risk.
See Operational risks Groups IT infrastructure to comply with the regulatory requirements of are inherent in the Groups businesses and these risks could such regime.
increase as the Group implements its Transformation Plan.
As with any project of comparable size and complexity, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to implement all of the initiatives The Transformation Plan makes certain assumptions about future forming part of its investment plan, including the IT investment regulation including, but not limited to, the rules to be issued by PRA programme on time or at all, and it may experience unexpected cost and FCA in connection with the ring-fence regime.
Any failure by the Group to realise the benefits of differences between the rules ultimately adopted and the this investment programme, whether on time or at all, could have a assumptions made in the plan proposed to implement the ring-fence material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations could make it impossible to execute the ring-fence as currently and its ability to retain or grow its customer business.
The Transformation Plan is also intended to improve the Groups control environment, particularly in its remaining CIB Implementation by the Group of the various initiatives and programmes franchise.
Due to material uncertainties, factors beyond the Groups which form part of the Groups Transformation Plan subjects the Group to control, and the increased operational risk described above, there increased and material execution risk can be no guarantee that such improvements will be achieved in the The level of structural change intended to be implemented within the timescale envisaged or at any time or that it will not result in further Group over the medium term as a result of the Transformation Plan, regulatory scrutiny.
taken together with the overall scale of change to make the Group a smaller, more focused financial institution, will be disruptive and is likely If any of the risks outlined above were to occur, singly or in the to increase operational and people risks for the Group and to impact its aggregate, they could have a material adverse effect on the Groups revenues and business.
As a result of the material restructuring plans business, results of operations and financial condition.
that make up the Transformation Plan, the Group is subject to increased and material execution risk in many areas including: 477 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group may be required to make new or increase existing provisions The Group is subject to a number of legal, regulatory and governmental in relation to legal proceedings, investigations and governmental and actions and investigations.
Unfavourable outcomes in such actions and regulatory matters.
In Q3 2014, the Group booked a provision of 400 investigations could have a material adverse effect on the Groups million relating to penalties incurred in connection with the investigations operations, operating results, investor confidence and reputation and reviews relating to foreign exchange trading settled with the FCA and The Groups operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in legal the CFTC and during 2014 the Group booked additional provisions of and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant 650 million for Payment Protection Insurance resulting in total litigation, regulatory and governmental investigations and other regulatory provisions made for this matter of 3.7 billion, of which 2.9 billion had risk.
As a result, the Group has recently settled a number of legal and been utilised at 31 December 2014.
The provision for interest rate regulatory investigations and is, and may in the future be, involved in a hedging products redress and administration costs was also increased by number of legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations in the UK, 185 million in 2014, with total provisions relating to this matter totalling the EU, the US and other jurisdictions.
1.4 billion, of which 1.0 billion had been utilised at 31 December 2014.
Significant increases in provisions relating to ongoing investigations may The Group is involved in ongoing class action litigation, investigations into have an adverse effect on the Groups reputation as well as its financial foreign exchange trading and rate setting activities, continuing LIBOR condition and results of operations.
related litigation and investigations, securitisation and securities related litigation, and anti-money laundering, sanctions, mis-selling and The Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater compliance related investigations, in addition to a number of other regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects heightened levels of matters.
In November 2014, the Group announced that it had reached a regulatory supervision to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly settlement with the FCA in the United Kingdom and with the Commodity as it relates to compliance with historical, new and existing corporate Futures Trading Commission CFTC in the US in relation to governance, employee compensation, conduct of business, consumer investigations into failings in RBSs foreign exchange business within its protection regimes, anti-money laundering and antiterrorism laws and Corporate and Institutional Banking division.
The Group agreed to pay regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions penalties of 217 million to the FCA and $290 million to the CFTC to programmes.
Past, current or future failures to comply with any one or resolve the investigations.
The Group continues to cooperate with these more of these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on and other governmental and regulatory authorities and remains in the Groups reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
discussion with these authorities on these issues including settlement discussions regarding the criminal investigation being conducted by the The Group is subject to political risks anti-trust and criminal division of the US Department of Justice and Ahead of the upcoming UK election in May 2015, there is uncertainty certain other financial regulatory authorities.
Settlements in relation to around how the policies of the elected government may impact the these ongoing investigations may result in additional financial, nonGroup, including a possible referendum on the UK's membership of the monetary penalties, and collateral consequences, which may be material, EU.
The implementation of these policies, including the outcome of the and may give rise to additional legal claims being asserted against the EU referendum, could significantly impact the environment in which the Group.
The Group entered into a deferred prosecution agreement in 2013 Group operates and the fiscal, monetary, legal and regulatory in connection with the settlement of the charges relating to the LIBOR requirements to which it is subject, and in turn could have a material investigation the LIBOR DPA.
Findings of misconduct by the US adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of Department of Justice relating to the Group, its subsidiaries or operations.
employees, may result in a breach of the terms of the LIBOR DPA which may lead to an extension of its terms or further prosecution.
The Group may be unable to attract or retain senior management including members of the board and other skilled personnel of the Legal, governmental and regulatory proceedings and investigations are appropriate qualification and competence.
The Group may also suffer if it subject to many uncertainties, and their outcomes, including the timing does not maintain good employee relations and amount of fines or settlements, which may be material, are often Implementation of the Groups strategy and its future success depends difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified investigation.
It is expected that the Group will continue to have a personnel, including senior management which include directors and material exposure to legacy litigation and governmental and regulatory other key employees, in a highly competitive labour market.
This cannot proceedings and investigations in the medium term.
For more detail on be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory oversight of certain of the Groups ongoing legal, governmental and regulatory banks and the increasing scrutiny of, and in some cases restrictions proceedings, see pages 430 to 439.
Adverse regulatory, governmental or placed upon, employee compensation arrangements, in particular those law enforcement proceedings or adverse judgements in litigation could of banks in receipt of Government support such as the Group.
Following result in restrictions or limitations on the Groups operations or have a the implementation in the UK of provisions of CRD IV relating to significant effect on the Groups reputation, results of operations and compensation in the financial sector and taking into account the views of capital position.
UKFI, the Group is restricted from paying variable remuneration to individuals for a particular year in an amount higher than the level of his or her fixed remuneration which may place the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
478 Additional information The Groups directors as well as members of its executive committee and In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the UK, continental certain other senior managers and employees will also be subject to the Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are new responsibility regime introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013 represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions.
which will impose greater responsibility on such individuals.
The new Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the rules include i a senior managers regime which will require such senior Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the managers to be pre-approved either by the PRA or FCA whilst the new Groups business, reputation and results.
rules themselves also introduce a presumption of responsibility for those approved as such - where contraventions of a relevant regulatory Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses and these risks requirement occur, the accountable senior manager will be presumed could increase as the Group implements its Transformation Plan guilty of misconduct unless he or she shows to the satisfaction of the Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed relevant regulator that he or she took all reasonable steps to prevent the internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The contravention occurring or continuing, ii a certification regime which Group has complex and geographically diverse operations and will require the Group to assess the fitness and propriety of certain of its operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, employees other than senior managers, who are considered to pose a errors by employees or third parties, failure to document transactions risk of significant harm to the Group or its customers and iii a conduct properly or to obtain proper authorisations, failure to comply with rules regime which as currently proposed would apply regulatory applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules prescribed conduct rules to most employees of the Group with a UK including those arising out of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and nexus.
anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes, equipment failures, business continuity and data security The rules implementing the new regime are still under consultation by the system failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems PRA and the FCA and there remains uncertainty as to the final scope of and controls, including those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
the new rules and any transitional arrangements.
Final rules are expected Operational risks will be heightened as a result of the Groups to enter into force in late 2015 and early 2016 for the new certification implementation of its Transformation Plan as described in more detail regime.
The new regulatory regime may contribute to reduce the pool of under Implementation by the Group of the various initiatives and candidates for key management and non-executive roles, including nonprogrammes which form part of the Groups Transformation Plan subjects executive directors with the right skills, knowledge and experience, or the Group to increased and material execution risk.
Although the Group increase the number of departures of existing employees, given concerns has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions and significant over the reverse burden of proof as well as the allocation of resources and planning have been devoted to plans to mitigate responsibilities introduced by the new rules.
operational risk associated with the Groups activities as well as the implementation of the Groups Transformation Plan, it is not possible to In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in controlling non-executive directors, senior management and other key employees, each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Ineffective management the market for skilled personnel is increasingly competitive, thereby of operational risks, including the material operational risks that will arise raising the cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel.
in implementing the Transformation Plan, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of The Groups changing strategy, particularly as a result of the Groups operations.
2013 2014 Strategic Plan, including the accelerated disposal of the Groups interest in CFG, led to the departure of many experienced and The Group operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to capable employees.
The continuing restructuring of the Group, including intense scrutiny by the competition authorities.
Its business and results as a result of the restructuring of the Groups CIB business and the of operations may be adversely affected by increasing competitive implementation of the ring-fence regulatory regime, is expected to lead to pressures and competition rulings and other government measures the departure of additional experienced and capable employees.
The lack The competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions in the of continuity of senior management and the loss of important personnel UK, the US and throughout the rest of Europe is changing rapidly.
Recent coordinating certain or several aspects of the Transformation Plan could regulatory and legal changes are likely to result in new market have an adverse impact on the implementation of the Groups participants and changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas, Transformation Plan and regulatory commitments.
The failure to attract or such as in retail banking in the UK.
The UK retail banking sector has retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel to manage been subjected to intense scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and the complex restructuring required to implement the Transformation Plan, by other bodies in recent years, including market reviews conducted by and in particular the implementation of the ring-fence and the the Competition & Markets Authority CMA and its predecessor the restructuring of the Groups CIB business could prevent the Group from Office of Fair Trading regarding SME banking and Personal Current successfully implementing its strategy.
This could have a material Accounts PCAs, the ICB, whose final report was published in 2012 and adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards whose report was operations.
These reviews raised significant concerns about the effectiveness of competition in the banking sector.
479 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively affected by In 2014, the CMA published two market studies about SME banking and actual or perceived global economic and financial market conditions and PCAs.
On the basis of its findings and following consultation, the CMA other global risks although the Group will be increasingly impacted by made a market investigation reference MIR in relation to both SME developments in the UK as its operations become gradually more banking and PCAs.
An MIR can be made only if the CMA has reasonable focused on the UK grounds for suspecting that any feature, or combination of features, of a On completion of the Groups Transformation Programme its business market in the UK for goods or services prevents, restricts or distorts focus will be preponderantly in the UK.
However, the Groups businesses competition.
Such investigations typically last between 15-24 months and and many of its customers are, and will be, affected by global economic the CMA currently expects to publish provisional findings in September conditions, perceptions of those conditions and future economic 2015.
While it is too early to assess the potential impact on the Group of prospects.
The outlook for the global economy over the near to mediumthese reviews and investigations, the competitive landscape in which the term is increasingly uncertain due to a number of factors including Group operates may be significantly affected as a result and this impact geopolitical risks, concerns around global growth and deflation.
Risks to will become more significant as the Group implements its Transformation growth and stability stem mainly from continued imbalances in many Plan and its business is increasingly concentrated in the UK on retail countries in Europe and elsewhere, slowing growth in emerging markets activities.
and China and the potential consequences of continued sanctions and depressed oil prices on the Russian economy.
Further instability may The wholesale banking sector has also been the subject of recent result from uncertainty as to how economies and counterparties will be scrutiny.
In 2014, the FCA launched a review of competition in the affected, directly or indirectly, by lower oil prices and other commodity wholesale sector primarily relating to competition in wholesale securities prices as well as to the impact of monetary policy measures adopted by and investment markets and related activities such as corporate banking the ECB, the US Federal Reserve and the Swiss Central Bank.
There to identify areas which might merit in-depth market study and in February remains considerable uncertainty about when the Bank of England and 2015 announced that it would be launching a market study to investigate the Federal Reserve will begin to raise policy interest rates.
The Groups competition in investment and corporate banking services.
Adverse businesses and performance are also affected by financial market findings resulting from this study may result in the imposition of fines or conditions.
Although capital and credit markets around the world have restrictions on mergers and consolidations within the UK financial sector been relatively stable since 2012, financial markets, in particular equity and the FCA may also refer the matter further to the CMA, which has markets, experienced higher volatility in the last quarter of 2014 which extensive powers to take measures to restore effective competition.
This volatility is attributable to many of the factors noted above.
The competitive landscape in the UK is also likely to be affected by the UK Governments implementation of the ring-fence regime and other In addition, the Group is exposed to risks arising out of geopolitical customer protection measures introduced by the Banking Reform Act events, such as trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures 2013.
Although final ring-fence rules will not be available until 2016, firms taken by sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial including the Group have submitted plans for their legal and operational activity levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or diplomatic structures to implement the new ring-fence regime to the PRA.
The events, armed conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts and threats, and the implementation of such plans may result in the consolidation of newly responses to them by governments could also adversely affect economic separated businesses or assets of certain financial institutions with those activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business, financial of other parties to realise new synergies or protect their competitive condition and results of operations.
This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new entrants into the markets in which the Group operates which is being The challenging operating environment for the Groups businesses, actively encouraged by the UK Government is likely to increase created by uncertain economic and market conditions is characterised by: competitive pressures on the Group.
reduced activity levels, additional write-downs and impairment In addition, certain competitors may have more efficient operations, charges and lower profitability, which either alone or in combination including better IT systems allowing them to implement innovative with regulatory changes or the activities of other market participants technologies for delivering services to their customers, and may have may restrict the ability of the Group to access capital, funding and access to lower cost funding and or be able to attract deposits on more liquidity: favourable terms than the Group.
Furthermore, the Groups competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and key employees, which prolonged periods of low interest rates resulting from ongoing may negatively impact the Groups relative performance and future central bank measures to foster economic growth which constrain, prospects.
In addition, recent and future disposals and restructurings by through margin compression and low returns on assets, the interest the Group in the context of its Transformation Plan as well as constraints income earned by the Group: and imposed on the Groups compensation structure and its ability to compensate its employees at the same level as its competitors may also the risk of increased volatility in yields and asset valuations as have an impact on its ability to compete effectively.
central banks start or accelerate looser monetary policies or tighten or unwind historically unprecedented loose monetary policy or These and other changes to competition could have a material adverse extraordinary measures.
The resulting environment of uncertainty for effect on the Groups business, margins, profitability, financial condition the market and consumers could lead to challenging trading and and prospects.
480 Additional information Developments relating to current economic conditions and the risk of a The occurrence of any of these events would have a material adverse return to a volatile financial environment, including those discussed effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations above, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, and prospects.
financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the As the Group refocuses on its operations in the UK as a result of its State Aid restructuring plan Transformation Plan, and in particular the restructuring of the Groups The Group obtained State Aid approval for the aid given to the Group by CIB business, it is increasingly exposed to the UK economy.
Although the UK Government as part of the placing and open offer undertaken by the prospects for the UK and the US remain the strongest among the G-7 the Group in December 2008.
RBS announced on 9 April 2014 that it and Irelands economy continues to improve, actual or perceived difficult had entered into an agreement DAS Retirement Agreement with HM global economic conditions, failure to meet economic growth projections, Treasury for the future retirement of the Dividend Access Share DAS.
particularly in the UK and the Groups key markets, the worsening of the The EC concluded that these new arrangements did not constitute new scope and severity of the weak economic conditions currently State aid and approved changes to RBSs restructuring plan in its State experienced by a number of EU member states and elsewhere, potential Aid Amendment Decision of 9 April 2014.
RBSG also entered into a volatility in the UK housing market and restrictions on mortgage lending Revised State Aid Commitment Deed with HMT under which it undertook as well as increased competition, particularly in the UK, would create to do all acts and things necessary to ensure that HMT is able to comply challenging economic and market conditions and a difficult operating with the revised State aid commitments made by HMT to the EC, which environment for the Groups businesses.
mainly relate to the deadline for the Groups divestment of the Williams & Glyn business and the divestment of the rest of the Groups interest in The Group is exposed to any weakening of the European economy and CFG.
the renewed threat of default by certain countries in the Eurozone With few exceptions, countries in Europe have not yet recovered from the Implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan exposes the Group to effects of the financial crisis.
Consensus forecasts of growth in 2015 and a number of risks.
The most significant risks relate to required asset 2016 for some of the largest European economies such as France and disposals, a number of which are now completed.
The Group completed Italy are low.
In addition, the possibility of a European sovereign default an initial public offering of CFGs common stock in September 2014.
The has risen due to the recent election in Greece and the outcome and divestment of Williams & Glyn continues to progress following the impact of ongoing negotiations by the new Greek government with announcement of a pre-IPO investment by a consortium of investors in respect to its outstanding debt is uncertain.
The risk that the effect of any September 2013.
The Group is required, pursuant to the terms of the sovereign default spreads by contagion to other EU economies and the State Aid Amendment Decision, to dispose of its remaining interest in UK economy remains.
The euro could be abandoned as a currency by CFG by the end of 2016 with a possible 12 month extension and must one or more countries, or in an extreme scenario, the abandonment of divest its interest in Williams & Glyn by way of an initial public offering by the euro could result in the dissolution of the European Economic and the end of 2016 with the disposal of the remainder of its interest by the Monetary Union EEMU.
While the European Central Bank announced in end of 2017.
Under the terms of the State Aid Amendment Decision, a January 2015 a 1.1 trillion quantitative easing programme designed to divestiture trustee may be empowered to conduct these disposals, with improve confidence in Eurozone equities and encourage more private the mandate to complete the disposal at no minimum price, if the Group bank lending, there remains considerable uncertainty as to whether such fails to complete such required disposals within agreed or renegotiated measures will be successful.
time frames, which may result in the Group achieving less than the full value of its investment due to then prevailing market conditions.
The effects on the UK, European and global economies of any potential Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State dissolution of the EMU or exit of one or more EU member states from the Aid Amendment Decision, including the required divestments, it might EMU and the resulting redenomination of financial instruments from the constitute a misuse of aid which could have a material adverse impact on euro to a different currency, are impossible to predict fully.
any such events were to occur they would likely: The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material result in significant market dislocation: adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition, capital position and competitive position.
heighten counterparty risk: result in downgrades of credit ratings for European borrowers, giving rise to increases in credit spreads and decreases in security values: disrupt and adversely affect the economic activity of the UK and other European markets: and adversely affect the management of market risk and in particular asset and liability management due, in part, to redenomination of financial assets and liabilities and the potential for mismatches.
481 Additional information Risk factors continued The Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions package of reforms to HM Treasury or UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI on its behalf the regulatory capital framework Basel III raised the quantity and may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the Group quality of capital required to be held by a financial institution with an and any proposed offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of emphasis on Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital and introduces an securities issued by the Group additional requirement for both a capital conservation buffer and a The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds 62.3% of the countercyclical buffer to be met with CET1 capital.
Global systemically issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
On 22 December 2009, the important banks GSIBs will be subject to an additional CET1 capital Group issued 25.5 billion of B Shares to the UK Government.
The B requirement, depending on a banks systemic importance.
The Group has Shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into been identified by the Financial Stability Board FSB as a GSIB.
The UK Government has agreed that it shall not FSB list of GSIBs is updated annually, based on new data and changes exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B Shares if and to the to methodology.
The November 2014 update placed the Group in the extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75% of second from bottom category of GSIBs, subjecting it to more intensive the total issued shares in the Group.
Any breach of this agreement could oversight and supervision and requiring the Group to have additional loss result in the delisting of RBSG from the Official List of the UK Listing absorption capacity of 1.5% in CET1, to be phased in from the beginning Authority and potentially other exchanges where its securities are of 2016. currently listed and traded.
HM Treasury or the UKFI on its behalf may sell all or a part of its holding of ordinary shares at any time.
Any offers or In addition, regulatory proposals relating to domestically systemically sale of a substantial number of ordinary shares or securities convertible important banks DSIBs continue to be progressed and could impact the or exchangeable into ordinary shares by or on behalf of HM Treasury, or level of CET1 that is required to be held by the Group.
The EBA an expectation that it may undertake such an offer or sale, could published in December 2014 a quantitative methodology as to how negatively affect prevailing market prices for securities issued by the European regulators could quantify which firms would qualify as DSIBs.
In addition the Financial Policy Committee FPC of the Bank of England intends to consult with firms in the UK on the UK framework.
In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with the Group and, although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to Basel III has been implemented in the EU with a new Directive and respect the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will Regulation collectively known as CRD IV which became effective from continue to have its own independent board of directors and 1 January 2014, subject to a number of transitional provisions and management team determining its own strategy, should HM Treasurys clarifications.
A number of the requirements introduced under CRD IV intentions change, its position as a majority shareholder and UKFIs have been and continue to be further supplemented through the position as manager of this shareholding means that HM Treasury or Regulatory and Implementing Technical Standards RTSs ITSs UKFI might be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, produced by the European Banking Authority EBA and to be adopted by among other things, the election of directors and appointment of senior the European Commission which are not yet all finalised.
The EU rules management, dividend policy, remuneration policy, or limiting the Groups deviate from the Basel III rules in certain aspects, and provide national operations.
The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM flexibility to apply more stringent prudential requirements than set out in Treasurys rights as majority shareholder could give rise to conflict the Basel framework.
between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the success of the Group Under CRD IV, the Group is required, on a consolidated basis, to hold a for the benefit of its members as a whole.
minimum amount of regulatory capital of 8% of risk weighted assets of which at least 4.5% must be CET1 capital and at least 6% must be tier 1 The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its capital together, the Pillar 1 requirements.
In addition, national capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital supervisory authorities may add extra capital requirements to cover risks adequacy requirements they believe are not covered or insufficiently covered by the Pillar 1 Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to requirements the Pillar 2A guidance.
The PRA requires that Pillar 2A operate its businesses, and to pursue its strategy of returning to risks should be met with at least 56% CET1 capital, no more than 44% standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the additional tier 1 capital and at most 25% tier 2 capital.
CRD IV also EU, the US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated introduces five new capital buffers that are in addition to the Pillar 1 and activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
Adequate capital also Pillar 2A requirements and are to be met with CET1 capital: i the capital gives the Group financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence conservation buffer, ii the institution-specific counter-cyclical buffer, iii and uncertainty in the global economy and specifically in its core UK, US the global systemically important institutions buffer, iv the other and European markets.
From 2016, in accordance with the provisions of systemically important institutions buffer and v the systemic risk buffer.
the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR, a minimum level of capital Some or all of these buffers may be applicable to the Group as adequacy will be required to meet new regulatory capital requirements determined by the PRA.
allowing the Group to make certain discretionary payments relating to CET1 dividends, variable remuneration and payments on additional tier 1 instruments.
482 Additional information The combination of the capital conservation buffer, the institution-specific However, if a breach of the leverage buffers both G-SIB and counter-cyclical capital buffer and the higher of depending on the countercyclical were to occur then a recovery plan would need to be institution, the systemic risk buffer, the global systemically important discussed with the PRA.
The current Group leverage ratio is 4.2% fully institutions buffer and the other systemically important institution buffer, in met through CET1 leaving it above the minimum requirement while the each case as applicable to the institution is referred to as the combined countercyclical buffer is close to zero.
The PRA has also introduced a firm specific Pillar 2B buffer Pillar 2B buffer which is based on various factors including In addition to the capital requirements under CRD IV, the bank resolution firm-specific stress test results and is to be met with CET1.
The PRA will and recovery directive BRRD introduces requirements for banks to assess the Pillar 2B buffer annually and UK Banks are required to meet maintain at all times a sufficient aggregate amount of own funds and the higher of the combined buffer requirement or Pillar 2B requirement.
eligible liabilities that is, liabilities that may be bailed in using the bail-in The PRA published a consultation in January 2015 suggesting certain tool, known as the minimum requirements for eligible liabilities MREL.
changes to its Pillar 2A framework which will introduce new The aim is that the minimum amount should be proportionate and methodologies for determining Pillar 2A capital as well as the PRAs adapted for each category of bank on the basis of their risk or the approach to operating the Pillar 2A buffer.
composition of their sources of funding.
The UK Government has transposed the BRRD's provisions into law with a requirement that the In addition, under the provisions of the CRR, which took effect from 1 Bank of England implements further secondary legislation to implement January 2014, deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability for MREL requirements by 2016 which will take into account the regulatory example, deferred tax assets related to trade losses and do not arise technical standards to be developed by the EBA specifying the from temporary differences must be deducted in full from CET1 capital.
assessment criteria that resolution authorities should use to determine Other deferred tax assets which rely on future profitability and arise from the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities for temporary differences are subject to a threshold test and only the amount individual firms.
The EBA noted that the technical standards would be in excess of the threshold is deducted from CET1 capital.
The regulatory compatible with the proposed term sheet published by the FSB on total treatment of such deferred tax assets is dependent on there being no loss absorbing capacity TLAC requirements for GSIBs but there adverse changes to regulatory requirements.
remains a degree of uncertainty as to the extent to which MREL and TLAC requirements may differ.
As the implementation of capital and loss Under Article 141 Restrictions on distribution of the CRD IV Directive, absorption requirements under BRRD in the UK is subject to adoption of member states of the EU must require that institutions that fail to meet secondary legislation and subject to PRA supervisory discretion in the combined buffer requirement will be subject to restricted places, and the implementation and scope of TLAC remains subject to discretionary payments which are defined broadly by CRD IV as significant uncertainty, the Group is currently unable to predict the impact payments relating to CET1 dividends, variable remuneration and such rules would have on its overall capital and loss absorption payments on additional tier 1 instruments.
The restrictions will be scaled requirements or its ability to comply with applicable capital or loss according to the extent of the breach of the combined buffer absorbency requirements or to make certain discretionary distributions.
requirement and calculated as a percentage of the profits of the institution since the last distribution of profits or discretionary payment.
Building on changes made to requirements in relation to the quality and Such calculation will result in a maximum distributable amount or aggregate quantity of capital that banks must hold, the Basel Committee MDA in each relevant period.
As an example, the scaling is such that in and other agencies are increasingly focussed on changes that will the bottom quartile of the combined buffer requirement, no increase, or re-calibrate, measures of risk weighted assets as the key discretionary distributions will be permitted to be paid.
In the event of a measure of the different categories of risk in the denominator of the riskbreach of the combined buffer requirement, the Group will be required to based capital ratio.
There is no current global consensus regarding the calculate its maximum distributable amount, and as a consequence it key objectives of this further evolution of the international capital may be necessary for the Group to reduce discretionary payments.
One extreme position advocated by some regulators would materially deemphasise the role of a risk-based capital ratio.
A more In October 2014 the FPC published its recommendation on the overall broadly held opinion among regulators seeks to retain the ratio but also leverage ratio framework for the UK banking system.
The FPC reform it, in particular by addressing perceived excessive complexity and recommended a minimum leverage ratio requirement of 3% to be met variability between banks and banking systems.
In particular, the Basel 75% by CET1 and a maximum of 25% by additional tier 1 capital, a Committee on Banking Supervision published a consultation paper in supplementary leverage buffer applied to G-SIBs equal to 35% of the December 2014, in which it recommended reduced reliance on external corresponding risk weighted systemic risk buffer to be met by CET1 and credit ratings when assessing risk weighted assets and to replace such a countercyclical buffer equal to 35% of the risk weighted countercyclical ratings with certain risk drivers based on the particular type of exposure capital buffer also to be met by CET1.
Transition timings have been of each asset.
While they are at different stages of maturity, a number of aligned to those laid out in Basel III and the exposure measure will follow initiatives across risk types and business lines are in progress that will that laid out by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision.
The FPC impact RWAs at their conclusion.
While the quantum of impacts is explicitly ruled out a breach of the leverage ratio resulting in an automatic uncertain owing to lack of clarity of definition of the changes and the constraint to capital distributions via the maximum distributable amount, timing of their introduction, the likelihood of an impact resulting from each preferring to leave this linked to risk weighted assets for the purposes of initiative is high and such impacts could result in higher levels of risk simplicity.
483 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital its liquidity depend significantly on its credit ratings and, to a lesser adequacy and loss absorbency and liquidity requirements in the extent, on the rating of the UK Government European Union, the UK, the US and in other jurisdictions in which the The credit ratings of RBSG, RBS and other Group members directly Group operates, including the Groups ability to satisfy the increasingly affect the cost of, access to and sources of their financing and liquidity.
A stringent stress case scenarios imposed by regulators and the adoption number of UK and other European financial institutions, including RBSG, of the MREL and TLAC proposals, may require the Group to issue Tier 1 the Royal Bank and other Group members, have been downgraded capital including CET1, Tier 2 capital and certain loss absorbing debt multiple times in recent years in connection with rating methodology securities, and may result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued changes, a review of systemic support assumptions incorporated into by the Group ceasing to count towards the Groups regulatory capital.
bank ratings and the likelihood, in the case of UK banks, that the UK The requirement to increase the Groups levels of CET1 and Tier 2 Government is more likely in the future to make greater use of its capital, or loss absorbing debt securities, which could be mandated by resolution tools that allow burden sharing with debt holders.
In 2014 the Groups regulators, could have a number of negative consequences credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank and other Group members were for the Group and its shareholders, including impairing the Groups ability downgraded in connection with the Groups creation of RCR, coupled to pay dividends on, or make other distributions in respect of, ordinary with concerns about execution risks, litigation risk and the potential for shares and diluting the ownership of existing shareholders of the Group.
RBSGs long-term and short-term credit ratings If the Group is unable to raise the requisite amount of Tier 1 and Tier 2 were further downgraded by two notches in 2015 by Standard & Poors capital, or loss absorbing debt securities it may be required to reduce Rating Services S&P to reflect S&Ps view that extraordinary further the amount of its risk weighted assets or total assets and engage government support would now be unlikely in the case of UK nonin the disposal of core and other non-core businesses, which may not operating bank holding companies and is likely to become less occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be predictable for bank operating companies in the UK under the newly attractive to the Group.
enacted legislation implementing the bail-in provisions of the BRRD.
Rating agencies continue to evaluate the rating methodologies applicable On a fully loaded Basel III basis, the Groups CET1 ratio was 11.2% at to UK and European financial institutions and any change in such rating December 31, 2014.
The Groups Transformation Plan targets a fully agencies methodologies could materially adversely affect the credit loaded Basel III CET1 ratio of 13% over the restructuring period.
The ratings of Group companies.
Groups ability to achieve such targets depends on a number of factors, including the implementation of the ring-fence, the execution of the Any further reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of restructuring of the Groups CIB business and the implementation of the RBSG or one of its principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank 2013 2014 Strategic Plan, which includes plans for a further significant would increase borrowing costs, require the Group to replace funding lost restructuring of the Group as well as further sales of its remaining stake due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, in CFG in the U. S. See Forward looking Statements and The Groups and might also limit the Groups access to capital and money markets ability to achieve its capital targets will depend on the success of the and trigger additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and Group's plans to further reduce the size of its business through the other secured funding arrangements.
At 31 December 2014, a restructuring of its corporate and institutional banking business and make simultaneous one notch long-term and associated short-term downgrade further divestments of certain of its portfolios and businesses including its in the credit ratings of RBSG and the Royal Bank by the three main remaining stake in Citizens Financial Group'.
ratings agencies would have required the Group to post estimated additional collateral of 4.5 billion, without taking account of mitigating Any change that limits the Groups ability to implement its capital plan, to action by management.
access funding sources or to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources including, for example, reductions in profits and Any downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could adversely retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in affect the credit ratings of Group companies and may have the effects risk-weighted assets, regulatory changes, actions by regulators, delays in noted above.
Credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank, The Royal Bank the disposal of certain key assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a of Scotland N. V. RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Limited are also important result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded pension exposures or to the Group when competing in certain markets, such as over-theotherwise could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial counter derivatives.
As a result, any further reductions in RBSGs longcondition and regulatory capital position.
term or short-term credit ratings or those of its principal subsidiaries could adversely affect the Groups access to liquidity and its competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a material adverse impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
484 Additional information The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding The Group relies on customer deposits to meet a considerable portion of commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources of its funding and it has targeted maintaining a loan to deposit ratio of liquidity and funding around 100%.
The level of deposits may fluctuate due to factors outside Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, the Groups control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing competitive including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in pressures for retail customer deposits or the repatriation of deposits by banking operations and can be heightened by a number of factors, foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could result in a including an over reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time.
An inability to including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, changes in grow, or any material decrease in, the Groups deposits could, particularly credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and if accompanied by one of the other factors described above, have a major disasters.
Credit markets worldwide, including interbank markets, material adverse impact on the Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity have experienced severe reductions in liquidity and term-funding during needs.
prolonged periods in recent years.
Although credit markets continued to improve during 2014 and such markets remain accommodating in the The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material early part of 2015 in part as a result of measures taken by central banks adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of around the world, including the ECB, and the Groups overall liquidity operations.
position remained strong, certain European banks, in particular in the peripheral countries of Spain, Portugal, Greece, Italy and Ireland, The Groups businesses are subject to substantial regulation and remained reliant on central banks as one of their principal sources of oversight.
Significant regulatory developments and increased scrutiny by liquidity.
Although the measures taken by Central Banks have had a the Groups key regulators has had and is likely to continue to increase positive impact, the risk of volatility returning to the global credit markets compliance risks and could have a material adverse effect on how the remains.
Group conducts its business and on its results of operations and financial condition The market view of bank credit risk has changed radically as a result of The Group is subject to extensive financial services laws, regulations, the financial crisis and banks perceived by the market to be riskier have corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies had to issue debt at significant spreads.
Any uncertainty relating to the in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
Many of these have changed credit risk of financial institutions may lead to reductions in levels of recently and are subject to further material changes.
Among others, the interbank lending and may restrict the Groups access to traditional adoption of rules relating to ring-fencing, prohibitions on proprietary sources of funding or increase the costs of accessing such funding.
The trading, the entry into force of CRD IV and the BRRD and certain other ability of the Groups regulator to bail-in senior and subordinated debt measures in the UK, the EU and the US has considerably affected the under the provisions of BRRD implemented in the UK since January 2015 regulatory landscape in which the Group operates and will operate in the may also increase investors perception of risk and hence affect the future.
Increasing regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and availability and cost of funding for the Group.
possible future changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in Management of the Groups liquidity and funding focuses, among other government or regulator-led initiatives, have resulted in the Group facing things, on maintaining a resilient funding strategy for its assets in line with greater regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in the Groups wider strategic plan.
Although conditions have improved, which it operates.
there have been recent periods where corporate and financial institution counterparties have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that the recent financial institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
regulatory changes, developments and heightened levels of public and Under certain circumstances, the Group may need to seek funds from regulatory scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of legislation alternative sources potentially at higher costs than has previously been and regulations in the UK and the EU, the other parts of Europe in which the case, and or with higher collateral or may be required to consider the Group operates and the US has resulted in increased capital, funding disposals of other assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce and liquidity requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, its funding commitments.
The Group has, at times, been required to rely changes in other regulatory requirements and increased operating costs on shorter-term and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in and has impacted, and will continue to impact, products offerings and overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided business models.
See also Implementation of the ring-fence in the UK by central banks.
Such schemes require assets to be pledged as which will begin in 2015 will result in material structural changes to the collateral.
Changes in asset values or eligibility criteria can reduce Groups business.
These changes could have a material adverse effect available assets and consequently available liquidity, particularly during on the Group.
Such changes may also result in an increased number of periods of stress when access to the schemes may be needed most.
regulatory investigations and proceedings and have increased the risks relating to the Groups ability to comply with the applicable body of rules and regulations in the manner and within the timeframes required.
485 Additional information Risk factors continued additional rules and regulatory initiatives and review relating to Any of these developments including failures to comply with new rules customer protection, including the FCAs Treating Customers Fairly and regulations could have an impact on how the Group conducts its regime: business, its authorisations and licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its assets, and could have a material requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other adverse effect on its business, funding costs and its results of operations than shareholder value creation: and financial condition.
See Implementation by the Group of the various initiatives and programmes which form part of the Groups the imposition of restrictions on the Groups ability to compensate its Transformation Plan subjects the Group to increased and material senior management and other employees and increased execution risk.
responsibility and liability rules applicable to senior and key employees: Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, regulatory and accounting changes and increased public and regulatory regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money scrutiny could have an adverse impact some of which could be material laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes: on the Group include those set out above as well as the following: rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking confiscation of assets: ring-fencing : other requirements or policies affecting the Groups profitability, restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further commercial bank and or a group which contains a commercial bank: restrictions on business growth, product offering, or pricing: the implementation of additional or conflicting capital, loss changes to financial reporting standards including accounting absorption or liquidity requirements, including those mandated under standards, corporate governance requirements, corporate MREL or by the Financial Stability Boards recommendations on structures and conduct of business rules: TLAC: reviews and investigations relating to the retail banking sector in the restructuring certain of the Groups non-retail banking activities in UK, including with respect to SME banking and PCAs: jurisdictions outside the UK in order to satisfy local capital, liquidity and other prudential requirements: the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees applicable to the Groups operations such as the imposition of a financial the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks transaction tax or changes in tax rates or to the treatment of carryand other governmental or regulatory bodies: forward tax losses that reduce the value of deferred tax assets and require increased payments of tax : and the design and implementation of national or supra-national mandated recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes: the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the EU whether issued by agencies in EU member states or in other additional rules and requirements adopted at the European level countries, such as the US.
relating to the separation of certain trading activities from retail banking operations: Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or regulations, further investigations, proceedings or fines either against the Group including contradictory laws, rules or regulations by key regulators in in isolation or together with other large financial institutions with different jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to comply with such laws, respect to market conduct wrongdoing: rules and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, the imposition of government imposed requirements and or related uncertainty and lack of international regulatory coordination as enhanced fines and sanctions with respect to lending to the UK SME market supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely and larger commercial and corporate entities and residential affect the Groups ability to engage in effective business, capital and risk mortgage lending: management planning.
486 Additional information The Group is subject to resolution procedures under resolution and Among the changes introduced by the Banking Reform Act 2013, the recovery schemes which may result in various actions being taken in Banking Act 2009 was amended to insert a bail-in option as part of the relation to the Group and any securities of the Group, including the write powers available to the UK resolution authority.
The bail-in option was off, write-down or conversion of the Groups securities introduced as an additional power available to the Bank of England to In the EU, the UK and the US regulators have or are in the process of enable it to recapitalise a failed institution by allocating losses to its implementing resolution regimes to ensure the timely and orderly shareholders and unsecured creditors in a manner that seeks to respect resolution of financial institutions and limit the systemic risks resulting the hierarchy of claims in liquidation.
The BRRD also includes a bail-in from the failure of global and complex financial groups.
In the EU and the tool, which gives the relevant supervisory authorities the power to write UK, the BRRD which came into force on 1 January 2015, sets out a down or write off claims including debt securities issued by the Group harmonised legal framework governing the tools and powers available to and its subsidiaries of certain unsecured creditors of a failing institution national authorities to address the failure of banks and certain other and or to convert certain debt claims to equity or to other securities of the financial institutions.
These tools and powers include preparatory and failing institution or to alter the terms of an existing liability.
The UK preventive measures, early supervisory intervention powers and Government amended the provisions of the Banking Act 2009, as resolution tools.
In July 2014, the PRA published a paper on the amended by the Banking Reform Act 2013, to ensure the consistency of implementation of the BRRD in the UK and in December 2014 HM these provisions with the bail-in provisions under the BRRD which came Treasury published final versions of the statutory instruments transposing into effect on 1 January 2015, subject to certain transition provisions the BRRD which came into effect in January 2015.
The PRA published effective for debt instruments as of 19 February 2015 and with the its final rules and requirements implementing the BRRD in January 2015. exception of provisions relating to MREL and Article 55 of the BRRD The EBA also published final draft regulatory technical standards in which relates to liabilities within the scope of the bail-in powers but December 2014 on the content of resolution plans and final guidelines on governed by the law of a third country.
Such bail-in mechanism, pursuant measures to reduce or remove impediments to resolvability.
The to which losses would be imposed on shareholders and, as appropriate, implementation of the BRRD in the UK may also continue to evolve over creditors including senior creditors of the Group through write-down or time to ensure continued consistency with the FSB recommendations on conversion into equity of liabilities including debt securities would be resolution regimes and resolution planning for GSIBs, in particular with used to recapitalise and restore the Group to solvency.
The bail-in regime respect to TLAC requirements.
adopted under the BRRD and implemented in the UK also provides that shareholders and creditors should not be left worse off as a result of As a result of its status as a GSIB and in accordance with the PRAs the exercise of the stabilisation powers than they would have been had resolution and recovery schemes then in place in the UK, the Group was the bank not been resolved, but instead placed into insolvency.
The required to meet certain resolution planning requirements by the end of exercise of the bail-in option will be determined by the resolution authority 2012 and 2013.
The Groups US businesses and CFG made their which will have discretion to determine whether the Group has reached a required submissions to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC by their 1 July point of non-viability.
Because of this inherent uncertainty, it will be 2014 due dates.
The US supervisory agencies subsequently announced difficult to predict when, if at all, the exercise of the bail-in power may that, beginning in 2015, banks would be required to submit their annual occur.
resolution plans by 31 December of each year instead of by 1 July.
Similar to other major financial institutions, both the Group and its key The methods for implementation of any resolution and recovery scheme subsidiaries remain engaged in a constructive dialogue on resolution and remain the subject of debate, particularly with respect to banking group recovery planning with key national regulators and other authorities.
companies and for GSIBs with complex cross border activities.
Such debate includes whether the bail-in tool may be exercised through a In addition to the preventive measures set out above, the UK resolution single point of entry at the holding company or at various levels of the authority now has available a wide range of powers to deal with failing corporate structure of a GSIB.
As a result of the implementation of BRRD in the UK in January 2015, the provisions of the Banking Act 2009 have been The potential impact of these resolution and recovery powers may substantially amended to enable the relevant authorities to deal with and include the total loss of value of securities issued by the Group and, in stabilise certain deposit-taking UK incorporated institutions that are addition for debt holders, the possible conversion into equity securities, failing, or are likely to fail.
In addition to the existing stabilisation options and under certain circumstances the inability of the Group to perform its available under the Banking Act 2009 being i the transfer of all or part of obligations under its securities.
The possible application of bail-in to the the business of the relevant entity and or the securities of the relevant Groups or certain of its subsidiaries debt securities and additional Tier 1 entity to a private sector purchaser, ii the transfer of all or part of the and Tier 2 capital securities may also make it more difficult to issue such business of the relevant entity to a bridge bank wholly owned by the securities in the capital markets and the cost of raising such funds may Bank of England and iii temporary public ownership nationalisation of be higher than has historically been the case.
the relevant entity, the resolution entity will now be able to rely on an asset separation tool which will enable the Bank of England to use property transfer powers to transfer assets, rights and liabilities of a failing bank to an asset management vehicle.
In addition, the new rules have transposed the BRRD requirement that the government stabilisation options may only be used once there has been a contribution to loss absorption and recapitalisation of at least 8% of the total liabilities of the institution under resolution.
487 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk The Groups operations are highly dependent on its IT systems and is Reputational risk, meaning the risk of brand damage and or financial loss increasingly exposed to cyber security threats due to a failure to meet stakeholders expectations of the Groups The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very conduct and performance, is inherent in the Groups business.
large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying Stakeholders include customers, investors, rating agencies, employees, with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The proper suppliers, government, politicians, regulators, special interest groups, functioning of the Groups payment systems, financial and sanctions consumer groups, media and the general public.
Brand damage can be controls, risk management, credit analysis and reporting, accounting, detrimental to the business of the Group in a number of ways, including customer service and other IT systems, as well as the communication its ability to build or sustain business relationships with customers, low networks between its branches and main data processing centres, are staff morale, regulatory censure or reduced access to, or an increase in critical to the Groups operations.
In June 2012, computer system the cost of, funding.
In particular, negative public opinion resulting from failures prevented NatWest, RBS and Ulster Bank customers from the actual or perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business accessing accounts in both the UK and Ireland.
Ongoing issues relating activities, the Groups financial performance, ongoing investigations and to the failure continued for several months, requiring the Group to set proceedings and the settlement of any such investigations and aside a provision for compensation to customers who suffered losses as proceedings, the level of direct and indirect government support or actual a result of the system failure.
In addition, in November 2014, the Group or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry may reached a settlement with the FCA and the PRA in relation to this incident adversely affect the Groups ability to keep and attract customers and, in and agreed a penalty of 42 million with the FCA and 14 million with the particular, corporate and retail depositors.
Reputational risks may be PRA.
Ulster Bank, one of the Groups subsidiaries, was also fined 3.5m increased as a result of the implementation of the Groups by the Central Bank of Ireland in relation to the IT incident and IT Transformation Plan.
Modern technologies, in particular online social governance failures which occurred in 2012.
The vulnerabilities of the networks and other broadcast tools which facilitate communication with Groups IT systems are due to the complexity of the Groups IT large audiences in short time frames and with minimal costs, may infrastructure attributable in part to overlapping multiple legacy systems significantly enhance and accelerate the impact of damaging information resulting from the Groups acquisitions and the consequential gaps in and allegations.
The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in how the IT systems operate, and  in IT avoiding damage to its business from reputational risk, which could result infrastructure in the past, creating challenges in recovering from system in a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, breakdowns.
Critical system failure, any prolonged loss of service results of operations and prospects.
availability or any material breach of data security, particularly involving confidential customer data, could cause serious damage to the Groups The Group may suffer losses due to employee misconduct ability to service its customers, could result in significant compensation The Groups businesses are exposed to risk from potential noncosts, could breach regulations under which the Group operates and compliance with policies, regulatory rules, employee misconduct or could cause long-term damage to the Groups reputation, business and negligence and fraud, which could result in regulatory sanctions and brands.
The Group is also currently implementing a significant IT serious reputational or financial harm to the Group.
In recent years, a investment programme which involves execution risks and may not be number of multinational financial institutions, including the Group, have successful.
See The Group is currently implementing a number of suffered material losses due to the actions of employees, including, for significant investment and rationalisation initiatives as part of the Groups example, in connection with the LIBOR and foreign exchange IT and operational investment programme.
Should such investment and investigations.
It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct rationalisation initiatives fail to achieve the expected results, it could have and the precautions the Group takes to prevent and detect this activity a material adverse impact on the Groups operations and its ability to may not always be effective.
retain or grow its customer business.
The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future In addition, the Group is subject to cyber-security threats which have earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected targeted financial institutions as well as governments and other by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions institutions and have increased in the recent years.
Failure to protect the In previous years, severe market events resulted in the Group recording Groups operations from cyber-attacks could result in the loss of large write-downs on its credit market exposures.
Any deterioration in customer data or other sensitive information.
During 2013, the Group economic and financial market conditions or weak economic growth could experienced a number of IT failures following a series of deliberate lead to further impairment charges and write-downs.
Moreover, market attacks which temporarily prevented RBS, CFG and NatWest customers volatility and illiquidity and the assumptions, judgements and estimates from accessing their accounts or making payments.
The Bank of in relation to such matters that may change over time and may ultimately England, the FCA and HM Treasury have identified cyber security as a not turn out to be accurate make it difficult to value certain of the Groups systemic risk to the UK financial sector and highlighted the need for exposures.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among other things, financial institutions to improve resilience to cyber-attacks and the Group the then prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of expects greater regulatory engagement on cyber security in the future.
certain of the Groups assets, may result in significant changes in the fair Although the Group has been implementing remedial actions to improve values of the Groups exposures, such as credit market exposures and its resilience to the increasing intensity and sophistication of cyberthe value ultimately realised by the Group may be materially different attacks, the Group expects to be the target of continued attacks in the from the current or estimated fair value.
future and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to prevent all threats.
488 Additional information As part of the Groups previous restructuring and capital initiatives, In these circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to including the 2013 2014 Strategic Plan, it has already materially reduced make additional contributions to the schemes.
Given the economic and the size of its balance sheet mainly through the sale and run-off of nonfinancial market difficulties that arose out of the financial crisis and the core assets.
The assets transferred to RCR which included assets risk that such conditions may occur again over the near and medium formerly part of the Groups Non-Core division together with additional term, the Group has experienced and may continue to experience assets identified as part of a HM Treasury review, became part of the increasing pension deficits or be required or elect to make further Groups Capital Resolution Group CRG as of 1 January 2014.
In contributions to its pension schemes.
Such deficits and contributions connection with the establishment of CRG, the Group indicated its could be significant and have an adverse impact on the Groups results of aspiration to remove the vast majority, if not all of the assets comprising operations or financial condition.
In May 2014, the triennial funding RCR within three years which resulted in increased impairments of 4.5 valuation of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund was billion which were recognised in Q4 2013.
The value of the assets in agreed which showed that the value of the liabilities exceeded the value RCR, excluding derivatives, was 14.9 billion at 31December 2014 of assets by 5.6 billion at 31 March 2013, a ratio of 82%.
To eliminate following significant reductions during 2014.
Although the Group to date this deficit, RBS will pay annual contributions of 650 million from 2014 to has successfully reduced the size of the RCR portfolio, the remaining 2016 and 450 million indexed in line with inflation from 2017 to 2023. assets in RCR may be difficult to sell and could be subject to further write These contributions are in addition to regular annual contributions of downs or, when sold, realised losses.
The CRG also includes the Groups approximately 270 million in respect of the ongoing accrual of benefits stake in the Williams & Glyn business as well as its remaining stake in as well as contributions to meet the expenses of running the scheme.
In addition, as part of the restructuring of the Groups CIB business, the Group will be exiting or disposing of substantial parts of that business.
The Banking Reform Act 2013 requires banks to ring-fence specific The Groups interest in these businesses may be difficult to sell due to activities principally retail and small business deposits from certain other unfavourable market conditions for such assets or businesses.
Ring-fencing will require changes to the structure of the The Groups ability to achieve its capital targets will depend on the Groups existing defined benefit pension schemes as ring-fenced banks success of the Group's plans to further reduce the size of its business may not be liable for debts to pension schemes that might arise as a through the restructuring of its corporate and institutional banking result of the failure of another entity of the ring-fenced banks group, business and make further divestments of certain of its portfolios and which could affect assessments of the Groups schemes deficits.
The businesses including its remaining stake in Citizens Financial Group.
Any draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Banking Reform of these factors could require the Group to recognise further significant Pensions Regulations 2015 requires that ring-fence banks ensure that write-downs, realise increased impairment charges or goodwill they cannot become liable for the pension schemes of the rest of their impairments, all of which may have a material adverse effect on its group, or anyone else after 1 January 2026.
The Group is developing a financial condition, results of operations and capital ratios.
strategy to meet the requirements of these regulations, which has been discussed with the PRA.
The implementation of this strategy will require The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension the agreement of pension scheme trustees.
Discussions with the schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover pension trustee will be influenced by the Groups overall ring-fence potential obligations and to satisfy ring-fencing requirements strategy and its pension funding and investment strategies.
If agreement The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for is not reached with the pension trustee, alternative options less certain former and current employees.
Pension risk is the risk that the favourable to the Group will need to be developed to meet the assets of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes do not requirements of the pension regulations.
The costs associated with the fully match the timing and amount of the schemes liabilities which are restructuring of the Groups existing defined benefit pension schemes long-term in nature, and as a result of which, the Group is required or could be material and could result in higher levels of additional chooses to make additional contributions to the schemes.
Pension contributions than those described above and currently agreed with the scheme liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, pension trustee.
pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as changes in applicable legislation.
The funded schemes hold assets to meet projected liabilities to the scheme members.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of the asset portfolios, together with any additional future contributions to the schemes, may be less than expected and because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities.
489 Additional information Risk factors continued The financial performance of the Group has been, and may continue to In certain jurisdictions in which the Group does business, particularly be, materially affected by counterparty credit quality and deterioration in Ireland, additional constraints have been imposed in recent years on the credit quality could arise due to prevailing economic and market ability of certain financial institutions to complete foreclosure proceedings conditions and legal and regulatory developments in a timely manner or at all, including as a result of interventions by The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, certain states and local and national governments.
These constraints and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and have lengthened the time to complete foreclosures, increased the the recoverability of monies due from borrowers and counterparties are backlog of repossessed properties and, in certain cases, have resulted in inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
In particular, the the invalidation of purported foreclosures.
Group has significant exposure to certain individual counterparties in weaker business sectors and geographic markets and also has The EU, the ECB, the International Monetary Fund and various national concentrated country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of authorities have proposed and implemented certain measures intended Europe principally Germany, The Netherlands, Ireland and France at to address systemic financial stresses in the Eurozone, including the 31 December 2014 credit risk assets excluding personal finance in the creation of a European Banking Union which, through a Single Resolution UK were 180.8 billion, in North America 81.8 billion and in Western Mechanism SRM will apply the substantive rules of bank recovery and Europe excluding the UK 76.3 billion : and within certain business resolution set out in the BRRD.
Current expectations are that the SRM sectors, namely personal finance, financial institutions, commercial real will apply from 1 January 2016, subject to certain provisions which came estate, shipping and the oil and gas sector at 31 December 2014 into effect from 1 January 2015 relating to the cooperation between personal finance lending amounted to 180.8 billion, lending to financial national resolution authorities and the financial stability board.
The institutions was 91.5 billion, commercial real estate lending was 43.3 effectiveness of these and other actions proposed and implemented at billion, lending to the oil and gas sector was 10.7 billion and lending both the EU and national level to address systemic stresses in the against ocean going vessels was 10.4 billion.
As the Group implements Eurozone is not assured.
its new strategy and withdraws from many geographic markets and materially scales down its activities in the United States, the Groups The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit quality relative exposure to the UK will increase significantly as its business have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to experience becomes more concentrated in the UK.
further and accelerated impairment charges, increased repurchase demands, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the Group The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties is and an inability to engage in routine funding transactions.
impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions and by the legal and regulatory landscape in their respective markets.
Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and Credit quality has improved in certain of the Groups core markets, in other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect particular the UK and Ireland, as these economies have improved.
the Groups business and results of operations However, a further deterioration in economic and market conditions or Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest changes to legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity prices counterparty credit quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
Changes in interest rate levels contractual security rights.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is or extended periods of low interest rates such as experienced over the exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is past several years, yield curves which remain depressed and spreads liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those liquidity stress.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US experienced in recent years.
This has been particularly the case with dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, respect to large parts of the Groups commercial real estate portfolio.
Any liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and such losses could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of the reported earnings of the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect operations and financial condition.
the Groups reported consolidated financial condition or its income from foreign exchange dealing.
Such changes may result from the decisions of Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could lead to Central Banks in Europe and of the Federal Reserve in the US and lead significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other financial to sharp and sudden variations in foreign exchange rates.
For accounting institutions, as the commercial and financial soundness of many financial purposes, the Group carries some of its issued debt, such as debt institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing securities, at the current market price on its balance sheet.
Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or affecting the current market price for such debt, such as the credit questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity spreads of the Group, may result in a change to the fair value of such problems and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
This systemic risk debt, which is recognised in the income statement as a profit or loss.
may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which the Group interacts on a daily basis, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
490 Additional information The performance and volatility of financial markets affects bond and The FSCS is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FCA, including equity prices, has caused, and may in the future cause, changes in the the Group.
In the event that the FSCS raises funds from the authorised value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
Financial markets firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the experienced significant volatility towards the end of 2014 and this trend levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may has continued in early 2015, resulting in further short term changes in the have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial valuation of certain of the Groups assets.
In addition, during the last condition.
quarter of 2014, oil prices fell significantly against their historical levels and other commodity prices also decreased.
The Group is exposed to oil In addition, the BRRD requires Member States to establish financing prices though its exposure to counterparties in the energy sector and oil arrangements for the purpose of ensuring the effective application by producing countries.
Further or sustained decreases in oil prices could national resolution authorities of the resolution tools and powers, which negatively impact counterparties and the value of the Groups trading will require national resolution funds to raise ex ante contributions on portfolios.
As part of its on-going derivatives operations, the Group also banks and investment firms in proportion to their liabilities and risk faces significant basis, volatility and correlation risks, the occurrence of profiles as well as ex post funding contributions.
Following the adoption which are also impacted by the factors noted above.
of the European delegated regulation on ex-ante contributions, the UK government confirmed that it would implement the ex post funding While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate requirements through the UK bank levy of the Finance Act 2011. and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market To the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates have conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or the Groups financial performance and business operations.
reimbursement schemes such as in the US with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Group may make further provisions and may The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the on its financial condition and results of operations.
financial condition of the insurers and counterparties The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, and other credit determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, derivatives, each of which are carried at fair value.
The fair value of these judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to the risk of default by the not turn out to be accurate underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought.
recognises at fair value: i financial instruments classified as held-forMany market counterparties have been adversely affected by their trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss: ii financial exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products, assets classified as available-for-sale: and iii derivatives.
whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the financial condition of these Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates, relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial the Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data for individual also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such derivatives.
Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of prevailing market conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal operations.
valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often relate In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for to matters that are inherently uncertain.
These assumptions, judgements contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other and estimates also need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their and market conditions.
The resulting change in the fair values of the obligations to customers financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS was adverse effect on the Groups earnings, financial condition and capital established under the FSMA and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort position.
for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act 2009.
491 Additional information Risk factors continued The value in use and fair value of the Groups cash generating units are The Group relies on valuation, capital and stress test models to conduct affected by market conditions and the performance of the economies in its business and anticipate capital and funding requirements.
Failure of which the Group operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a these models to provide accurate results or accurately reflect changes in goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, the micro and macro economic environment in which the Group operates although it has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, capital and Further impairments of the Groups goodwill could have an adverse effect results on the Groups results and financial condition.
Given the complexity of the Groups business, strategy and capital requirements, the Group relies on analytical models to assess the value Any significant write-down of goodwill could have a material adverse of its assets and its risk exposure and anticipate capital and funding effect on the Groups results of operations.
The Groups valuation, capital and stress test models and the parameters and assumptions on which they are based need to be The recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group constantly updated to ensure their accuracy.
Failure of these models to depends on the Groups ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits accurately reflect changes in the environment in which the Group and may be affected by changes to tax legislation operates or the failure to properly input any such changes could have an In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets adverse impact on the modelled results or could fail to accurately capture on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that the risk profile of the Groups financial instruments.
Some of the analytical it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are models used by the Group are predictive in nature.
The use of predictive quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards models has inherent risks and may incorrectly forecast future behaviour, and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules leading to flawed decision making and potential losses.
The Group also for computing taxable profits and offsetting allowable losses.
Failure to uses valuation models that rely on market data inputs.
If incorrect market generate sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation data is input into a valuation model, it may result in incorrect valuations or including rates of tax or accounting standards may reduce the valuations different to those which were predicted and used by the Group recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets.
At 31 in its forecasts or decision making.
Should such models prove to be December 2014, the value of the Groups deferred tax assets was 1.5 incorrect or misleading, decisions made by the Group in reliance thereon billion.
In December 2014 the UK Government announced a could expose the Group to business, capital and funding risk.
proposed restriction on the use of certain brought forward tax losses of banking companies to 50% of relevant profits from 1 April 2015 which The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event of goodwill may also affect the recoverable amount of recognised deferred tax impairment assets.
In addition, the implementation of the rules relating to ring-fencing The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the and the resulting restructuring of the Group may further restrict the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, Groups ability to recognise tax losses within the Group as deferred tax liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount the higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual cash generating unit with its carrying value.
At 31 December 2014, the Group carried goodwill of 6.3 billion on its balance sheet.
