99 Appendix - they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly Summary of to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests Remuneration and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance.
Policy The tables on the following pages describe how these remuneration principles are applied in practice.
INTRODUCTION The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders on to the Policy are proposed this year.
The Policy covers how decisions on directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the remuneration philosophy and strategy which underpin these decisions.
For ease of reference, the elements of the Policy referenced in Committee activity during 2014 are re-presented on the following pages 99 to 106, including the policy tables and information on directors contractual terms.
The full Policy Report is contained in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts in the Investor Relations section.
RSAS REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY AND STRATEGY RSAs remuneration philosophy and strategy are directly informed by the business strategy, which is set out in the The remuneration principles the Committee follows are: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market is simple and transparent, so as to be effective and understood by executives, shareholders and regulators package takes the form of variable pay, giving focus to support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests 100 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Base salary Reviewed annually with consideration of factors including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, levels Performance conditions do not apply, but business and individual performance may be considered when conducting the review process.
Altho u gh s ala ri es ar e re vie w e d a n nu al ly, th er e is no a ut oma tic r igh t for any Director to receive a salary increase.
Salaries are aligned to market competitive levels.
outside of the normal review cycle for material role changes.
This is to attract and Benchmarked referencing competitive practice within two peer groups of listed international insurers retain high calibre executives, essential heavy industries.
for ensuring RSAs Committee can change the constituents of the benchmark peer group or the basis upon which market ongoing success.
information is obtained at its discretion to ensure that the data remains robust and relevant.
Note to table: Pe rforma n ce con di tions d o no t a p pl y. in su ra n ce s, pr ofessional subscriptions, external advice and employee discounts on certain insurance provided to support the products.
Home to work travel may be covered where appropriate.
Tax changes are not compensated.
executive and form part Assistance would be available under RSAs relocation policy or global mobility policy should this be required.
of a market competitive This may include tax equalisation in the event an executive is subsequently appointed to the Board as an package.
expatriate, although the Committee would review if this was necessary long-term.
to RSAs business and travel policies.
competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Internal appointees to the Board may Note to table: Pension Non-contributory pension plan membership or a full partial cash allowance, where the Director is unable Performance conditions do not apply.
part of a market Pension cash allowances are set referencing practice within the benchmark peer groups and specialist survey competitive package and data may also be obtained.
The Committee has regard to the market median allowance data.
enables executives to save for retirement.
It can also agree changes to the terms of the Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
Note to table: Annual Bonus Plan N o rm a l b o nu s op po rt un it y is 1 6 % o f sa la ry at th re s ho ld, r isin g to 8 0% o f salary for on-target performance and 160% of salary at maximum.
variable remuneration A d di tio na l b o nu s he ad ro o m o f u p to a fu rt he r 4 0 % of sa la ry m a y b e av ai lab le, at the Committees discretion, to recognise highly Supports RSAs shortperformance will result in a bonus award which is above target.
Full disclosure will be given if an increased bonus opportunity is applied.
Fifty per cent of the bonus will be awarded in cash and the remainder will be deferred into a share award for are directly linked to the a period of three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue on the deferred shares, and are awarded at the end operational plan and of the deferral period.
The deferred bonus shares are granted under the rules of the LTIP as a conditional award.
create shareholder value reduced or forfeited prior to receipt under a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is through sustained growth noted in detail on page 89.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and may amend or update it, as required.
be targeted against the performance of both the Group and their business areas.
opportunity of its benchmark peer groups.
Targets are set with reference to the Groups operational plan.
into shares creates Committee can exercise discretion to change the bonus measures, how they are weighted, calculated and No additional performance conditions apply to the deferred bonus shares once they are granted.
It can also change the Directors bonus awards both upwards and downwards once the measures have been tested, provided this is appropriate and in shareholders interests.
The Committee can make such amendments as are necessary to respond to regulatory, legal or accounting requirements.
Shareholders will Note to table: 101 RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Base salary Reviewed annually with consideration of factors including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, levels Performance conditions do not apply, but business and individual performance may be considered when conducting the review process.
Shareholders will Note to table: 102 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Long-term Incentive Plan No rma l t hres h old L TI P o p po rt un it y is 5 8% of sa la ry, r isin g to 1 44 % of s ala ry for on-target performance and 230% of salary at maximum.
LTIP variable For recruitment purposes, or in highly exceptional circumstances, such as for retention, the Committee may agree to a conditional remuneration Supports RSAs long-term a buy-out upon appointment and shares awarded through compulsory bonus deferral.
exceptional award is made, full disclosure will be given on the rationale.
Performance conditions are reviewed annually.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the performance period Conditional awards are determined based on the Directors salary as at the grant date, using the mid-market closing price of an RSA RSAs priority to create and are added to the shares that vest.
ordinary share, as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Plans rules.
shareholder value The LTIP is intended to support the delivery of the business strategy over a three-year time horizon, and it will therefore include at least through sustained any sold to satisfy statutory deductions.
This policy will cover performance-based awards granted through the earnings and share price capital strength and balance-sheet strength.
The measures can be assessed on an absolute and or a relative basis.
The metrics can be growth.
applies while the Director remains in employment.
The performance period will normally be at least three years for all measures.
By exception, the relative TSR metric will be assessed over partial or full covering a range of circumstances and other sanctions can apply.
The policy is noted in detail circa 34 months for the 2014 grant only.
Shareholders will be consulted if changes to the measures are proposed by the Committee.
Committee can act within the parameters of the Plans rules as approved by shareholders and its performance conditions, covering matters such as the measures, calculation methods, performance period, eligibility rules, and general Plan mechanics.
The purpose of discretion is to enable the LTIP to be appropriately administered under both normal and exceptional circumstances, e. g. corporate or capital events affecting the Group or a to respond to legal, accounting or regulatory changes.
Awards can be reduced or otherwise amended, provided change of control, performance conditions are tested and awards can vest earlier than scheduled, pro-rated for time and performance, however, the Committee can determine whether a pro-ration for time is applied to Note to table: below the Board.
Legacy incentives variable remuneration Plan including deferred share awards.
No further grants will be made under the 2006 Plan.
The Committee in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2013 and in this Report on page 92.
There is no re-testing of the performance conditions.
can exercise the same discretion as noted in the LTIP section above, as appropriate.
Required shareholding Pe rforma n ce con di tions d o no t ap pl y. sa la ry multiple.
With effect from 1 January 2014, the shareholding levels to be reached are: with shareholders interests and enables share award is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except the Director to build where required to cover statutory deductions.
The shares which count towards the holding are those held either in their own right or that of immediate family members, and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the benchmark peer groups.
LTIP shares form part of the holding during the two-year retention period.
For the purpose of reporting to shareholders, the holding levels will be determined using the mid-market closing price of an RSA ordinary share and executives annual gross basic salaries, both as at 31 December in the reporting year.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow Note to table: 103 Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Long-term Incentive Plan No rma l t hres h old L TI P o p po rt un it y is 5 8% of sa la ry, r isin g to 1 44 % of s ala ry for on-target performance and 230% of salary at maximum.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow Note to table: 104 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Appointment treatment Appointment salaries are set using the same approach as for the Directors salary reviews, as noted on pages 1 00 t o 1 01 a bo five.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly conditions and vesting date as applies to other plan participants.
transparent approach is taken when appointing f or a m ax im u m b on us o f 1 60 % o f s al ar y a n d L TI P aw a rd of 2 30% of salary.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus executives to the Board, o p po rt un it y o f up t o 2 0 0% o f sa lar y m ay b e a gr ee d and a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the in line with best practice.
No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
Where the Director is an internal promotion within the Group, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy case of compensation for loss upon recruitment.
The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value if the compensation is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
There will be no cash sign-on payments where there is no loss.
Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form by performance share grants in the LTIP.
A fair value approach will be applied to determine the value of any compensatory share awards.
As a point of principle, restricted shares will only be used where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
Cash bonuses may be bought out with restricted shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
Committee can exercise discretion on how to settle any buyout and over what time period to phase any compensatory awards.
It will have regard to the performance and vesting periods of the Directors forfeited incentives when determining this.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken on recruitment remuneration for senior executives across the Group.
Leaver treatment Directors who resign or are dismissed for cause are not eligible for an annual bonus if they have left or are under Where good leavers receive pro-rated bonus or LTIP awards, performance is tested in line with the normal performance timetable.
n ot ic e a t th e d a te of p ayment, and forfeit all unvested LTIP awards.
They retain any shares they have voluntarily The Committee can, however, arrange for the performance conditions to be tested early and for awards to vest sooner than the scheduled departing executives deferred in the LTIP under the 2006 Plan.
Directors who resign can retain any compulsory deferred bonus date in cases of death in service, medical severance with discretion or under a change of control.
while avoiding reward for shares awarded from 2014 onwards and any associated dividends or equivalents.
Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise discretion to reduce or lapse failure.
Good leavers, at the Committees discretion, and normally including such circumstances as planned retirement, awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders death, disability medical severance, transfers outside of the Group and redundancy, would be eligible for an will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be provided wherever possible.
annual bonus for the proportion of the bonus year served.
Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in line with course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a Directors employment termination.
retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post employment termination and taking account of the in cash and therefore waive compulsory deferral.
the payment will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his annual date or the date the contractual notice period expires, whichever is the latter: they can be settled as payments.
The unexpired period of the Directors notice may either be paid or served, including on garden leave: this is regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation, and payments may be made on a phased basis.
Note to table: The policy is largely consistent with the approach taken for senior executives across the Group.
RSAS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Fees Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
Performance conditions do not apply.
When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise remuneration is paid than one committee and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman receives a fee to attract high calibre for his role and this is set by the Committee.
non-executives and and will have regard to the market median.
Base fees including the Chairmans fee will be kept within the aggregate limit stated in the Groups Articles of Association.
recognise their time commitment on the Board.
Co nt ra ct ua l t er m s a re n ot ed o n pa ge 1 06. governance.
award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
105 Purpose and Strategic Link Policy for 2014 onwards Opportunity and performance conditions Appointment treatment Appointment salaries are set using the same approach as for the Directors salary reviews, as noted on pages 1 00 t o 1 01 a bo five.
106 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTRACTUAL TERMS Executive Directors tenure.
They will not participate in making a decision if any agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Their employment can be terminated by the Company or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
In the case of summary dismissal, no notice will be although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
served by the Company and no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved by the Committee t o th e B o ar d a n d t he e xp ir y d a te s o f th eir c ur re nt te rm s of Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end of his contractual notice period.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by be suspended from their duties in the event of their misconduct or during an investigation which might result in their dismissal.
Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice during garden leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any annual bonus award that may subsequently additional rights or payments to them in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation of the Company.
Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company for any reason.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, the individual can retain it.
to the Board is shown in the table on page 98.
Contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Non-Executive Directors are engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be extended with the Boards agreement.
the individual or the Company serving one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross misconduct.
