Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors statement Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the and regulations.
Board of Directors section of this Annual Report and Accounts, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance The Directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance with the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view the Group: of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit The Directors report contained in this Annual Report and or loss of the Group for that period.
Accounts which comprises the sections described on page 63, includes a fair review of the development and performance of In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: the business and the position of the Company and the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Select suitable accounting policies and then apply they face: them consistently: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and and prudent: The Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been State that the financial statements comply with IFRS taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departure of any relevant audit information and to establish that the disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will In addition, each of the Directors considers that this Annual Report continue in business, in which case there should be and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the review of the business and a description of the principal risks and audited financial information on our website at www.
uncertainties facing the Company and Group.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group Forward-looking statements and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for condition, performance and position, strategy, results of operations safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence and businesses of the Group.
Such statements and forecasts involve for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud risk and uncertainty because they are based on current expectations and other irregularities.
and assumptions but relate to events and depend upon circumstances in the future and you should not place reliance on them.
Without limitation, any statements preceded or followed by or that include the words targets, plans, believes, expects, aims, will have, will be, estimates or anticipates or the negative of these terms or other similar terms are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Forwardlooking statements and forecasts are based on the Directors current view and information known to them at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors do not make any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a forecast, estimate or projection of future financial performance.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Financial report 78 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Financial review 81 Consolidated financial statements 83 Notes to the accounts 92 Schroders plc financial statements 136 Independent Auditors report 144 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Financial report contents Helping you to navigate through this section of the report Index The different elements of the Financial report Consolidated income statement 83 1.
T he Financial review is incorporated on the following pages Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 83 alongside the primary statements and segmental reporting note.
Consolidated statement of financial position 85 It is separately identified and forms part of the Strategic report.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 87 It does not form part of the financial statements of the Group Consolidated cash flow statement 89 and is unaudited.
N et gains on financial instruments and other income 96 5.
The blue print at the beginning of each note provides a 12.
Associates and joint ventures 104 plain English description of the purpose of the note.
Property, plant and equipment 106 incorporates accountancy requirements that serve as the 14.
Goodwill and intangible assets 107 accounting policy.
Unit-linked liabilities and assets backing unit-linked liabilities 109 17.
Share capital and share premium 121 23.
R econciliation of net cash from operating activities 123 25.
Estimates and judgements are shown separately within 28.
Impact of IFRS 10 adoption on the Groups financial statements 131 the notes to the financial statements and identified with 29.
Related party transactions 131 the background shaded in grey.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities 132 Presentation of the financial statements 134 Schroders plc Statement of financial position 136 Statement of changes in equity 137 Cash flow statement 138 Notes to the Schroders plc accounts 31.
Presentation of the financial statements, along with a summary 34.
Subsidiary undertakings 140 of estimates and judgements, is set out on pages 134 to 135.
Related party transactions 143 Independent auditors report 144 80 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014
