North St. Andrew Street North St. David Street Hanover Street Hanover Street The Mound Frederick Street Frederick Street Waverley Bridge Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-seventh annual general meeting of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, on 30 January 2015 at 10.30am, for the purpose of transacting the following: 1.
To receive and consider the directors report and statement of accounts for the year to 31 October 2014.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year to 31 October 2014.
To declare a final dividend of 7.20p per share.
To re-elect Mr Douglas McDougall as a director.
To re-elect Mr Hamish Buchan as a director.
To re-elect Mr Russell Napier as a director.
To re-elect Mr James Will as a director.
To elect Mr Ian Hunter as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To authorise the company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 16,199,232 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 30 April 2016, save that the company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 10 which is a special resolution.
Steven Hay Company Secretary 12 December 2014 Map showing location of AGM venue Queen Street Gardens St. Andrew Square Scott Monument Waverley Railway Station Royal Scottish Academy West Princes Street Gardens University of Edinburgh 48 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 b y m o P r l c r a e c b e A Heriot Row Queen Street George Street Princes Street Notice of Meeting continued days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For Notes this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as Arrangements have been made to enable all investors to determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the attend, speak and vote at the annual general meeting.
CREST Application Host from which the companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Registered shareholders whose names appear on the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change companys register of members no later than 48 hours of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of be communicated to the appointee by other means.
the AGM or any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote or be represented at the meeting in respect CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors of the shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK and to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and attend and vote at the meeting.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the meeting is concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a vote on his or her behalf.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor more than one proxy, each proxy must be appointed to exercise or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be rights attaching to a different share or shares held by the necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the company of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant shareholder.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Shareholders may not use any electronic address provided or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those either in this notice or any related documents, including the sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations proxy form, to communicate with the company for any of the CREST system and timings.
purpose other than those expressly stated.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set out in in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy forms and Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the original or duly certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or authenticated, Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights in the must be lodged with the companys registrar not less than company who appoints a person other than the chairman as 48 hours excluding non-working days before the meeting his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was comply with their respective disclosure obligations under the demanded, not less than 24 hours, excluding non-working Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
On 12 December 2014, days, before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
the companys issued share capital comprised 108,066,926 Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a member shares none of which is held in treasury.
Each share carries from attending the meeting and voting in person.
the right to one vote at a general meeting of the company.
Accordingly, as at 12 December 2014, the total number of CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through voting rights exercisable at the AGM was 108,066,926. the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by Shareholders may require the company to publish, on its logging on to the website www.
CREST website, without payment, a statement, which is also passed personal members or other CREST sponsored members and to the auditor, setting out any matter relating to the audit of the those CREST members who have appointed a voting service companys accounts, including the auditors report and the provider, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service conduct of the audit, which they intend to raise at the meeting.
provider who will be able to take the appropriate action on The company will be required to do so once it has received their behalf.
such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the company or ii at least For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 100 members who have rights to vote and hold shares in the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message company on which there has been paid up an average sum a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds in writing and must state the members full name and address specifications, and must contain the information required and be sent to the companys registered office at 6 Albyn for such instruction, as described in the CREST manual.
The company may not require The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the the members requesting any such website publication to appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be of the Companies Act 2006. valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the companys registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST ID number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 49 Notice of Meeting continued Further information regarding the AGM, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is available from www.
co. uk Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday.
The register of directors interests maintained by the company together with copies of directors appointment letters will be available at the place of the annual general meeting from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the annual general meeting until the conclusion thereof.
No director has any service contract with the company.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are welcome to attend and may vote by completing the Form of Direction enclosed with this report.
This must be returned to the companys registrar no later than 10.30am on 23 January 2015.
Other investors whose holdings are in nominee names and who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact their nominee before 23 January 2015.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 5 February 2015 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 5 January 2015.
This report was sent to the address at present registered for communications.
Any change of address should be notified to the companys registrar or the savings scheme administrator as appropriate.
50 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014
