Investor Information In addition to these products, you can buy SIT shares directly How to Invest on the stockmarket through a stockbroker.
Your bank, lawyer, The companys wholly-owned subsidiary, SIT Savings Ltd, accountant or other professional adviser may also be able to provides a number of low-cost, flexible investment products help with this.
SITs registrar, Computershare Investor Services which enable investors to acquire SIT shares easily.
PLC, provides a sharedealing service which can be accessed on its website, www.
co. uk or by telephoning STOCKPLAN 0870 703 0195.
SITs investment trust savings scheme is one of the most cost-effective available.
There is no initial plan charge, other than Update on Tax-Efficient Investing stamp duty and dealing spread, and no annual charge.
It costs ISAs just 12.50 to sell some or all of your holding.
STOCKPLAN allows you to invest regularly minimum investment 25 per The overall annual ISA investment limit is currently 15,000. month and or with a lump sum minimum investment 250.
Up to the full 15,000 can be invested in a stocks and There is no maximum investment limit and you can stop and shares ISA with one provider.
Alternatively, up to the full restart investing at any time.
15,000 can be put into a cash ISA, or into both a stocks and shares ISA and a cash ISA, splitting the 15,000 between the two as you wish.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start The annual ISA investment limit for the 2015 16 tax year SITs investing for children plan is based on the STOCKPLAN is 15,240. scheme.
It benefits from the same low charges and flexibility Transfers from previous years cash ISAs into stocks and and can be opened in one of two ways: either as a designated shares ISAs are permitted and do not count against the plan or, more formally, as a bare trust.
STOCKPLAN: A Flying current years investment.
Start enables family and friends to invest on behalf of a child to help build savings for the future.
Contact Telephone Numbers Full contact details for SITs scheme administrators and SITs The SIT ISA registrar can be found in the Useful Addresses section on This is one of the lowest-charging investment trust company page 51. stocks and shares ISAs on offer.
There is no initial plan charge, other than stamp duty and dealing spread, nor are there STOCKPLAN and ISA investors wishing to: closure or selling charges.
The annual management fee of give a change of address 0.6% of the value of the investment is currently capped at 30 instruct a sale VAT regardless of how much your SIT ISA investment grows request a valuation or how many years ISA allowances you have invested with SIT.
make an investment using their debit card change the amount of their monthly investment The SIT ISA Transfer obtain help with accessing their STOCKPLAN and ISA SIT can accept the transfer of existing stocks and shares ISAs information online from other qualifying managers into The SIT ISA at any time make general queries about their account or scheme without losing the ISAs tax status.
SIT can also accept the transfer of cash ISAs into The SIT ISA.
This would turn the can contact the scheme administrator, Halifax Share Dealing cash ISA being transferred into a stocks and shares ISA.
SIT Limited HSDL, on: 0845 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063. makes no charge for transfers in.
However, the current ISA manager may charge for administering the transfer out.
SIT SIPP investors with questions about the administration of their SIPP, or any other pension-related enquiry, can The SIT SIPP contact the SIPP administrator, AJ Bell Management Limited, This allows investment into SIT through a low-cost, flexible, on: 0845 722 5525 or 0113 270 1154. self-invested personal pension.
The wide choice of investments available, including SIT, enables you to tailor the investment Shareholders who hold share certificates can contact combination in the SIPP to suit your particular needs and the registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, objectives whether you are just starting to contribute to your on: 0870 703 0195. pension or are approaching retirement.
You can open a SIT SIPP even if you are already an active member of an employers pension scheme or are contributing to other pension plans.
You can also set up a SIT SIPP for a child or a non-earning spouse or partner.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 45 Investor Information continued STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and ISA investors Dividends receive twice yearly statements of their holdings and SITs The following dividends have been paid or proposed during 2014: investor newsletter is issued twice yearly.
Record Payment Dividends Amount XD date date date Accessing Your Account Online ISA, STOCKPLAN and STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start designated 2 January 5 January 5 February scheme investors Final 2014 7.20p 2015 2015 2015 The above scheme investors may view their accounts online 18 June 20 June 21 July by registering with .
This can be Interim 2014 4.80p 2014 2014 2014 accessed through the links in the various product sections 31 December 3 January 5 February on SITs website, www.
co. uk online 31 December 3 January 5 February Special 2013 1.80p 2013 2014 2014 Please note, you will need your Share Dealing Personal Reference Number PRN to access this service.
If you do not have this, please contact SITs scheme administrator, SIT STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063.
The STOCKPLAN and ISA schemes provide automatic reinvestment of dividends.
However, they also allow for SIPP investors dividends to be taken as income, if required.
STOCKPLAN and ISA holders should contact the scheme administrator, SIPP investors can set up monthly payments, buy and HSDL, on 0845 850 0181 or 0113 267 1063 if they would like sell shares and access their account online, by visiting: to change their dividend arrangements.
co. uk online Shareholders who hold share certificates Shareholders who hold share certificates Conversely, for shareholders who hold share certificates Investors who hold share certificates can check their investors whose names are on SITs share register and who holdings by registering on SITs registrars website, are not in SITs schemes dividends are automatically paid as www.
co. uk or through the link in the investor income.
However, it is easy to arrange to have these dividends relations section on SITs website, www.
co. uk reinvested by joining SITs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Details are available from Computershare Investor Services, Please note that to access this facility, investors will need SITs registrar, on 0870 703 0195, or from the investor relations to quote the shareholder reference number shown on their section on SITs website, www.
By registering for the Investor Centre facility on SITs Website Computershares website, investors can also view details of SIT is pleased to announce the launch of its redesigned all their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, as well website at www.
co. uk as access additional facilities and documentation.
The site was restyled with the aim of increasing accessibility, Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
setting up distinct areas for the different types of visitor and improving navigation throughout.
Electronic Communications The website provides details of all SITs investment products, Shareholders who hold share certificates downloadable application forms, annual and interim reports, Investors who hold share certificates i. e. who are not in newsletters and other literature, plus up to date information the STOCKPLAN, ISA or SIPP schemes, nor in a brokers including SITs share price, performance, holdings, dividends, nominee, may choose to receive SITs interim and annual discount and NAV.
reports and other shareholder communications electronically instead of in paper form.
Monitoring Your Investment SITs share price, together with performance information and To register, simply visit the link in the investor relations section product details, can be found on SITs website, www.
co. uk and provide email details.
Investors will then be advised by email when an electronic A number of financial websites, such as the FT, communication is available to be accessed.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, www.
com carry share price Shareholders Meetings information.
In addition, the share price is published daily Shareholders who hold share certificates in most quality newspapers.
Investors who hold share certificates are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and other general meetings.
Notices of SIT publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its meetings and proxy cards are sent to their registered addresses.
An interim report is issued in June of each year and the annual report is distributed to all investors in late December.
46 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Investor Information continued STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP Company Secretary investors who invest in SIT Steven Hay STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start, ISA, and SIPP investors who invest in SIT are entitled to attend the AGM Investor Relations and Compliance Manager and other general meetings and vote by completing and returning the form of direction enclosed with this report.
Alan Jamieson The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians Marketing Manager SIT Savings Ltd of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, Sherry-Ann Sweeting on 30 January 2015 at 10.30am.
Electronic Voting Shareholders who hold share certificates Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please follow the instructions on your proxy card.
Personal Taxation Income Tax Currently, all UK dividends are paid to shareholders net of a tax credit of 10%.
Non-tax payers cannot reclaim the tax credit.
Non-ISA shareholders liable to higher rates of tax will be assessed for any additional tax through their annual tax return.
Capital Gains Tax CGT When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 11,000 per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt.
For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the price on that date of 41.472p.
Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for CGT should seek professional advice.
ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
Please remember that we are unable to offer individual investment or tax advice.
If you require such advice, you should consult your professional adviser.
STOCKPLAN, STOCKPLAN: A Flying Start and The SIT ISA are provided by SIT Savings Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, Risk Warning 25 The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
Past performance may not be repeated and is not a guide to future performance.
The value of shares and the income from them can go down as well as up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
The Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy of borrowing money to invest in equities in the expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify losses on these investments.
SIT can buy back and cancel its own shares.
All other things being equal, this would have the effect of increasing gearing.
Investment in SIT is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 47
