Accounting Policies A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out in f Finance Costs paragraphs a to j below.
All have been applied consistently Interest payable is charged one-half to revenue reserve throughout the current and the preceding year: and one-half to capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of long-term future returns from the companys a Basis of Accounting investments 2013: same.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern The discount on, and expenses of issue of, the secured bonds basis see page 18 under the historical cost convention, due 2030 are included in the financing costs of the issue which modified to include the revaluation of investments at fair value, are being written off over the life of the bonds.
and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The companys accounting policies comply with the g Taxation AIC Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued in Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid 2009 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies or recovered.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which b Valuation of Investments result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay Listed investments and current asset investments are valued more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Timing at fair value through profit and loss.
Fair value is the closing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and bid or last traded price according to the recognised convention expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from of the markets on which they are quoted.
Where trading in the those in which they are included in the financial statements.
securities of an investee company is suspended, the investment Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is is valued at the boards estimate of its net realisable value.
regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Where appropriate, the directors have adopted the guidelines Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
issued by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital The company has no deferred tax asset or liability.
Association for the valuation of unlisted investments.
Heritable property is included at a professional valuation.
Depreciation is h Foreign Currency not charged on heritable property as it is not material.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments, transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in permanent impairments in the value of investments and unrealised a related forward contract.
Assets and liabilities denominated surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of investments are taken in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates to capital reserve as explained in note i below.
of exchange prevailing at the year end.
Any gain or loss arising Year end exchange rates are used to translate the value of from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the investments which are denominated in foreign currencies.
transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the c Valuation of Debt gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
The companys secured bonds and debentures are held at amortised cost being the nominal value of the bonds in issue i Capital Reserve less the unamortised costs of issue.
The following are accounted for in this reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of investments: d Income realised and unrealised exchange differences of Dividends receivable on quoted shares are brought into account a capital nature: on the ex-dividend date.
Dividends receivable on shares where realised and unrealised gains and losses on transactions no ex-dividend date is quoted are brought into account when undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature: the companys right to receive payment is established.
the funding of share and secured bond buybacks: Interest and other income from non-equity securities, including expenses and interest charged to capital: debt securities, are recognised on a time apportionment basis increases and decreases in the valuation of investments so as to reflect the effective yield on the securities.
held at the year end: and increases and decreases in the valuation of the pension Where the company elects to receive dividends in the form fund surplus or deficit.
of additional shares scrip dividends rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
j Pensions Any excess in the value of the shares received over the Employer contributions for the defined benefit scheme are amount of the cash is recognised in capital reserves.
calculated by reference to the triennial actuarial valuation.
Employer contributions for the defined contribution scheme e Expenses are a predetermined percentage of the employees salary.
All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement Investment expenses are allocated between revenue and of Recognised Gains and Losses.
capital reserve in line with the directors expectations of the nature of long-term future returns from the companys Further information on the companys pension schemes investments 2013: same.
is contained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements on pages 32 to 34.
Expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are treated as part of the cost, or deducted from the sales proceeds, of the investment.
30 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014
