Glossary of Terms Glossary of Terms Total Assets Total assets less current liabilities, before deduction of all borrowings.
Net Asset Value Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value at Fair Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
Net Asset Value at Book Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
Discount Premium As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
Total Return The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair value.
Gearing At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can adversely impact performance in falling markets.
Gearing represents borrowings at par less cash and cash equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings adjusted for cash and bonds expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 59 Directors Managers, Secretaries Registrar and Registered Office Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC JPHS Scott FCII FCSI DL Baillie Gifford & Co The Pavilions Calton Square Bridgwater Road Dr MM Gray OBE DL 1 Greenside Row Bristol Professor JA Kay CBE FBA FRSE Edinburgh BS99 6ZZ FC McBain ACA EH1 3AN Tel: 0870 707 1300 WG McQueen CA FCIBS Tel: 0131 275 2000 Dr P Subacchi www.
com Banker Company Broker Independent Auditor The Bank of Cenkos Securities plc KPMG Audit Plc New York Mellon SA NV 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court 46 Rue Montoyerstraat London 20 Castle Terrace B-1000 Brussels EC2R 7AS Edinburgh Belgium EH1 2EG www.
