ST ANDREW SQUARE A7 NORTH BRIDGE CA L L T L I H O E N C C A L N T A O R O A L D Annual General Meeting and Further Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of Baillie Gifford & Co.
Please arrive at the entrance at The Cube, 45 Leith Street, Edinburgh, EH1 3AT as shown on the map OMNI CENTRE rather than the main entrance on Greenside Row on Thursday, JOHN LEWIS 26 June 2014 at 4.30pm.
Details of the resolutions are contained in the Circular sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
ST. JAMES BUS CENTRE STATION If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
THISTLE Baillie Gifford may record your call.
HOTEL THE CUBE BALMORAL HOTEL By Rail: Edinburgh Waverley approximately a 5 minute walk away By Bus: Lothian Buses local services include: EDINBURGH 1, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 15A, 16, 22, 25, 34 WAVERLEY Access to Waverley Train Station on foot STATION Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Capital Gains Tax The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value Exchange.
They can be bought by placing an order with a adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary share in the stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through Company as at 31 March 1982 was 30.6p.
the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see page 56.
You can also find Share Register Enquiries specific details about investing in Scottish Mortgage at Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share www.
register on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries Sources of Further Information on the Company regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can Registrars on 0870 707 1300. also be found on the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Baillie This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality Gifford website at www.
com, Trustnet at available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company hear the latest share price: factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on confirm your current share holding balance: request.
confirm your payment history: and Scottish Mortgage Share Identifiers order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock ISIN GB0007838849 Transfer forms.
Sedol 0783884 By quoting the reference number on your share certificate you can check your holding on the Registrars website at Ticker SMT www.
The Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the London They also offer a free, secure share management website service Stock Exchange and their price is shown in the Financial Times, which allows you to: Daily Telegraph and The Scotsman under Investment Companies.
view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares: AIC calculate the total market value of each shareholding: Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website view price histories and trading graphs: www.
co. uk contains detailed information about register to receive communications from the Company, investment trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the including the Annual Report and Financial Statements, in investment trust industry.
electronic format: Key Dates update bank mandates and change address details: Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect use online dealing services: and of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your November and a final dividend is paid in early July.
The Annual chosen local currency.
General Meeting is normally held in late June or early July.
54 Annual Report 2014 P QUEEN STREET O O GEORGE STREET L R YORK PLACE E T A A8 PRINCES STREET W G L E I T LEITH WALK H S T R NSIDE ROW E E R E E T ST ANDREW SQUARE
