Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Press advertisement for Scottish Mortgage The Share Plan and ISA brochure available at www.
com Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan plans that enable you to buy and hold shares of Scottish An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to Mortgage cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally invest for a child subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of No initial charge 0.5% is payable on purchases.
No annual wrapper charge The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of No initial charge the child No annual wrapper charge Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker saving from just 25 Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 A withdrawal charge of just 22 No maximum investment limits Online Management Service Stop and start saving at any time with no charge You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the A withdrawal charge of just 22 Baillie Gifford website at www.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA allows you to: Tax-efficient investment Obtain current valuations: No set-up charge Make lump sum investments, except where there is more than Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT one holder: Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a Sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more maximum of 11,880 each year than one holder: Save monthly from 100 Switch between investment trusts, except where there is A withdrawal charge of just 22 more than one holder: and ISA Transfers Update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone number.
Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie Gifford ISA Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Certain restrictions apply for accounts where there is more than Minimum transfer value 2,000 one holder.
56 Annual Report 2014 Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Risks Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Scottish Mortgage is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The value of its shares and any income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount invested.
Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities.
Changes in the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
Scottish Mortgage invests in emerging markets where difficulties in dealing, settlement and custody could arise, resulting in a negative impact on the value of your investment.
Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Scottish Mortgage can buy back its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a Company buys back its shares.
Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade may not be readily available and there can be no assurance that any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price the Company might receive upon their sale.
Scottish Mortgage can make use of derivatives.
The use of derivatives may impact on its performance.
Scottish Mortgage charges 50% of the investment management fee and 50% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces the capital value.
Also, where income is low, the remaining expenses may be greater than the total income received, meaning Scottish Mortgage may not pay a dividend and the capital value would be further reduced.
With effect from 1 April 2014 the management fee and the borrowing costs will be charged 25% against revenue and 75% against capital.
You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time and their value depends on your circumstances.
Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles shown on page 56 are contained in the product brochures.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC is a UK public listed company and as such complies with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
It is not authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the manager of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & Co, the Managers and Secretaries of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC.
BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and both are based at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN.
The staff of Baillie Gifford & Co, and the Directors of Scottish Mortgage may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage or may buy or sell shares from time to time.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 57
