Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Shareholder information Dividends purchases and sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the in respect of the year to 31 December 2014 will be payable on 12 June sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as 2015 to those shareholders on the register on 15 May 2015. shown on your share certificate.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Multiple accounts on the shareholder register If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because your bank or building society account.
This service has a number either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly of benefits: different way.
If you think this might be the case and would like to combine your accounts, please contact Equiniti.
there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid Shareview electronic communications directly into your account on the payment date without the need to www.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables wait for the cheque to clear: and you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to you will help Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing printing organise your investments electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti and cheque clearing costs.
of a change of address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the number and free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Results Electronic proxy appointments Half year to 30 June 2015: announced August 2015.
For the AGM to be held on 6 May 2015, you may, if you wish, register Full year to 31 December 2015: announced March 2016. the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
Shareholder enquiries Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any You will need your voting reference numbers the three eight-digit queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have please contact Equiniti: registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your Equiniti Carillion plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
Aspect House Lancing Please note that any electronic communication that is found to contain West Sussex a computer virus will not be accepted.
BN99 6DA ShareGift 1 Telephone 0871 384 2522 Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their own, Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0871 384 2255 can be donated to ShareGift the share donation charity Registered Non-UK callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047.
ShareGift transfers these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support a wide range Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
of UK registered charities based on donor suggestion.
They can also accept larger donations of shares.
1 Calls to this number cost eight pence per minute plus network extras.
If you would like further details about ShareGift, please visit Share dealing service www.
org or telephone them Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone on 020 7930 3737. and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone Warning to shareholders boiler room scam If you receive an unsolicited investment approach you should: Carillion is aware that shareholders have received unsolicited telephonecalls from fraudulent organisations offering to buy confirm the correct names of the person calling and the organisation Carillionplc shares at a substantial premium to the prevailing market they represent: price.
Thesecalls are usually from overseas organisations targeting check that they are an authorised firm with the Financial UKshareholders.
These operations are commonly known as boiler Conduct Authority FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting room scams and the brokers who call shareholders can be www.
uk register and contact the firm using the details extremelypersuasive and persistent.
on the register: report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting Boiler room scams usually come out of the blue, with most fraudsters www.
uk consumers: cold-calling investors after taking their details from publicly available if the calls persist, hang up.
shareholder lists, but the high-pressure sales tactics can also come byother means such as email or post.
The scam is designed to sound Please be aware that fraudsters will often use the name of a legitimate attractive, but typically at some point in the process the perpetrator organisation or organisations, sometimes in combination with others usually asks for money in advance of concluding the main transaction, so that the organisation may sound familiar to you.
They may have for example by way of a pre-payment or vendor bond.
The transaction also created a scam website, so simply checking that an organisation is never concluded, and the shareholder loses the money.
appears to have a presence on the web is not a guarantee that you are dealing with a legitimate organisation.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 Carillion online Carillion online Carillions comprehensive website gives you fast, Downloadable Annual Report and Accounts direct access to a wide range of Company information.
Latest investor news and press releases Our capabilities Our markets Sustainability News and media To find out more go to www.
com LinkedIn Search Carillion Twitter @Carillionplc Facebook Search Carillion Flickr flickr.
com photos carillionplc YouTube youtube.
com user CarillionplcLatest Design and production: CarnegieOrr CarnegieOrr 44 0 207 610 6140 www.
co. uk The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 128 Designed and produced by Gather www.
london The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Carillion plc 84 Salop Street Wolverhampton WV3 0SR United Kingdom Registered Number 3782379 T 44 0 1902 422 431 www.
