S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 Consolidated Financial Statements on International Financial Reporting Standards Basis CONTENTS 94 Independent Auditors Report 101 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 103 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 104 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 105 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94 Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL Audit scope The Group is structured to reflect its vertically integrated STATEMENTS insurance and wealth management business and operates Our opinion predominantly within the United Kingdom.
In our opinion, St. Jamess Place plcs group financial statements The Group financial statements are a consolidation including the financial statements : six financially significant business units, all of which are give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at subject to full scope audit procedures, comprising the Groups 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year operating businesses and centralised functions and the then ended: consolidated St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Our areas of focus were: European Union: and Recognition of revenue.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Recoverability of deferred tax asset arising from historic Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Accounting for the acquisition of The Henley Group.
What we have audited Transactions in respect of a key operational services agreement St. Jamess Place plcs financial statements comprise: with an outsourced service provider.
the consolidated statement of financial position as at Adequacy of other provisions and charges.
31 December 2014: Recoverability of outstanding loans to Partners who have the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the subsequently left the partnership.
year then ended: Existence and valuation of financial investments and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then investment property.
ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year The scope of our audit and our areas of focus then ended: and We conducted our audit in accordance with International the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced estimates that involved making assumptions and considering from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on Overview our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are Materiality identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set Overall group materiality has been set at 15 million which out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in represents approximately 8% of profit before tax attributable order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, to shareholders returns.
and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition of revenue We assessed the critical accounting estimates and judgements See note 2 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of as set out in note 2 to the financial statements that had a direct critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting impact on revenue.
Specifically we: policies for further information.
substantively tested the deferred income and acquisition costs and the amortisation of DIR and DAC, including assessing the future ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue profitability of the products to which the income and acquisition recognition because of the pressure management may feel to costs related to ensure that profitability was sufficient to support achieve market expectations.
In this regard we focused on the carrying value of the deferred balances: and transactions which included a judgemental element in their confirmed substantively the classification of the Groups calculation, typical within the life insurance industry, as set out in products between insurance and investment business to check note 2 to the financial statements.
that insurance product revenue was appropriately included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and We focused specifically on the following: investment business except for fees related to investment deferral of income and acquisition costs and amortisation of contract management was excluded.
Deferred Income DIR, and Deferred Acquisition Costs We obtained contracts for material reinsurance arrangements and DAC under IFRS methodology.
In the year, the movement agreed the nature of reinsurance premiums ceded to reinsurers to of DIR of 75.4m was recognised as revenue see note 4 and the contractual terms and substantively tested the premiums ceded 26.9m of acquisition costs were deferred and 102.7m of to the reinsurer.
DAC was amortised see note 6 : and classification of the Groups products between insurance and Our work on the above areas of judgement was supported by investment business to ensure that investment business is deposit controls testing and substantive procedures over all material accounted in the consolidated statement of financial position.
revenue streams including: reconciling fees on investment business to confirmations We also considered the recognition of income or costs which provided by the asset custodian, State Street: may have a close relationship to earned insurance premiums testing internal controls over the accuracy and occurrence of and fees, in accordance with Auditing Practices Board Practice revenue recognised in the financial statements: Note 20 The audit of insurers in the United Kingdom, such as obtaining and reading the International Standard on Assurance reinsurance costs.
The Group fully reinsures the UK insurance Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at risk of its closed book of protection business and therefore we a Service Organisation for International Financial Data Services focused on whether the 33.5m of premium income associated IFDS, in particular focusing on the controls designed to with this business that was reversed out of the consolidated prevent and detect fraud operating over the Group unit trust statement of comprehensive income was complete.
business administration system owned and operated by IFDS: and testing a sample of journal entries posted throughout the year to revenue accounts that met specific criteria to identify unusual or irregular items.
There were no issues in the ISAE 3402 report that impacted our audit scope.
Overall, we noted no exceptions in our testing and found the judgements taken by the Directors to be reasonable.
Recoverability of deferred tax asset arising from historic We assessed the basis of the capital losses that gave rise to the capital losses 39.5m deferred tax asset, including by evaluating the advice See notes 2 and 15 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure received by management from external tax advisers.
of determining the value of deferred tax assets for further information.
We assessed the Groups forecasts for the utilisation of the losses against future capital gains, which can be off-set against the capital A deferred tax asset of 39.5m has been recognised following losses, including assessing the likelihood of such gains.
managements investigation of historic capital losses crystallising within the Group on the planned winding up of a Group entity, We challenged the asset growth assumptions used by the Directors SJPC 2000 plc see note 15. in the calculation of capital gains and compared these to industry benchmarks where relevant.
We focused on this item due to the judgements required in forecasting future capital growth and gains in future years in We considered the application of relevant taxation legislation and Group companies to offset against the capital losses, specifically, accounting standards around the recognition of the deferred tax asset.
the key asset growth assumptions used to forecast future gains.
We examined correspondence between the Group and HMRC.
On the evidence obtained we assessed that the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets arising from capital losses was reasonable.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Jamess Place plc Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accounting for the acquisition of The Henley Group We obtained an understanding of the acquisition of The Henley See notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure Group, by reading the relevant contractual documentation, and of business combinations for further information.
tested: The cost of the acquisition made in the year: The Group acquired The Henley Group in the year for 15.3m.
The fair value measurements of assets and liabilities acquired, This was an area of focus since the interpretation of the sale and predominantly focusing on the renewal income asset recognised purchase contractual agreements and the requirements of IFRS 3 on acquisition: and Business Combinations are relatively complex in relation both The goodwill year end carrying value.
to the consideration payable and the assets and liabilities acquired.
In performing this work we had regard to the fact that The Henley Furthermore, intangible and financial assets recognised on Group is located in new territories for the Group and regulatory acquisition are required to be assessed for impairment at least authorisation is pending in one of these territories.
Accordingly we annually, to ensure the carrying value is recoverable.
applied significant downward adjustments in testing the sensitivity of the Directors forecasts for renewal and new business attributed to The Henley Group.
We noted no exceptions in our testing.
The Directors forecasts demonstrated sufficient headroom to support the carrying value of assets acquired even after significant downward adjustments were applied.
Transactions in respect of a key operational services agreement We obtained and read the operational services agreement and with IFDS subsequent amendments.
See the Report of the Audit Committee for further information and notes 2, 18 and 28 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of other We substantively tested the payments to IFDS associated with the receivables and payables.
new operational services agreement and assessed them against the lower of the Directors future anticipated cost savings based In the year a new operational services agreement was signed with on the Directors expectation of future service tariffs and the the Groups main policy administration service provider, IFDS.
termination payments set out in the contract, to ensure that the Group will receive value for the amounts recognised as a prepaid The contractual terms include material payments to and from IFDS cost asset in the consolidated statement of financial position.
and will also result in future changes to the operational services tariffs, which have not yet been agreed.
We assessed the accounting adopted for amounts received from IFDS which are repayable over the life of the contract.
The Group has accounted for some of the amounts paid to IFDS during the year as prepaid costs as at the year end.
We noted no exceptions in our testing of the transactions in the financial statements.
Due to the nature and magnitude of amounts arising from the contractual terms the recognition of transactions in respect of this has been an area of audit focus.
Adequacy of other provisions and charges We examined the Groups complaints log and Board minutes and See note 23 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of obtained correspondence between the Group and the Financial other provisions and contingent liabilities for further information.
Conduct Authority, the Prudential Regulation Authority and, where relevant, the Financial Ombudsman Service, to assess The Group operates in an industry where there is the inherent whether there were any matters that required the recognition of a risk of customer redress being required as a result of mis-selling, provision or disclosure.
including past individual Partner or Group actions or historic Group policy and non-Group products provided by Partners.
We also evaluated the results of Compliance and Internal Audit work during the year.
Due to the inherent risk of redress associated with the industry this was an area of audit focus.
We substantively tested provisions recognised at the year end.
No exceptions were noted in our testing.
Based on the evidence provided, we noted no other matters that we consider would require recognition as a provision and disclosure.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recoverability of outstanding loans to Partners who have We tested the Groups controls over the authorisation of partnership subsequently left the partnership loans and controls over partnership loans in arrears.
See notes 2 and 18 to the financial statements for the Directors disclosure of partnership loans for further information.
We examined the actual recoverability experience of total former partner loans in 2014 and compared this to the Directors Loans to active Partners are secured against both initial advice assessment of predicted recoverability made for the year ended 31 charge, ongoing advice fee and, for business written prior to December 2013, to assess the reliability of the Directors forecasts the Retail Distribution Review, renewal commission income for recoverability.
We also substantively tested a sample of individual loans to former The existing loans to former Partners are secured against Partners to test whether the repayment of the loan was in line with ongoing advice fee and renewal commission income only, or the Directors expectations.
We substantively agreed loan amounts to loan statements and We focused on the recoverability of loans to former Partners due examined any complaints made by Partners to the Group in respect to the lower level of security provided against these loans.
We substantively tested a sample of loans to source loan documents and we sample tested standing data associated with the partnership loan book.
We found that the Directors forecasts were within an acceptable range of possible outcomes.
We noted no exceptions in our testing and consider the recoverability of the loans to former Partners to be supported by the evidence obtained.
Existence and valuation of financial investments and We agreed the existence of all holdings of the financial investment investment property portfolio to a confirmation received directly from independent See note 29 to the financial statement for the Directors disclosure of custodians as at year end.
financial risk for further information.
We independently agreed the existence of a sample of holdings of Financial investments and investment properties were an area of investment properties at year end to the Land Register maintained focus for our testing, in particular, the judgemental valuations of by the Land Registry.
We obtained and read the International Standard on Assurance Due to the magnitude of the balance of financial investments this Engagements ISAE 3402 Assurance Reports on Controls at a was an area of significant audit effort and focus.
Service Organisation for State Streets Global Fund Accounting and Custody operations, which provided a description of the St. Jamess Place plc outsources investment custodian and systems and controls in place and the results of testing of the valuation activities to State Street.
Our audit procedures operational effectiveness of those controls.
therefore considered the evidence available over the reliability of these outsourced processes.
We independently re-priced a sample of derivative investments as at year end.
We independently re-priced a sample of equity, fixed income and collective investment scheme investments at the year end to complement our controls reliance.
We agreed our independent prices to those provided by State Street.
For investment properties we tested the inputs to the valuation process and tested the reasonableness of the rental yield assumptions used by the Directors in the valuation of the portfolio by reference to industry accepted benchmarks.
We found no material exceptions in our testing.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Jamess Place plc How we tailored the audit scope Materiality We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls, determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and and the industry in which the group operates.
extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of six as a whole.
financially significant business units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions and the St. Jamess Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality Place Unit Trusts where they are considered to be subsidiaries of for the financial statements as a whole as follows: the Group.
Overall group materiality 15 million 2013: 15 million.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we How we determined it 8% of profit before tax attributable to determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the shareholders returns.
business units by us, as the group engagement team, or Rationale for benchmark This is a generally accepted market component auditors from other PwC network firms operating applied benchmark and one of the measures the under our instruction.
Group uses to monitor its results.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to audit work at those business units to be able to conclude whether them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.75 million sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis 2013: 0.75 million as well as misstatements below that amount for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We visited the Group operations in the Republic of Ireland and met with local management and the PwC Ireland component Going concern audit team during the course of our work.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 91, in relation to going concern.
We The six financially significant business units required an audit of have nothing to report having performed our review.
their complete financial information, due to their size and or As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded their risk characteristics.
that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis Specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in were also performed over those St. Jamess Place Unit Trusts operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one regarded as subsidiaries of the Group.
year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going The Group outsources a large proportion of its back office concern basis is appropriate.
administration services to IFDS, Capita and State Street: accordingly the financially significant business processes However, because not all future events or conditions can be performed for the Group by these outsourcer services providers predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups were addressed in our audit.
ability to continue as a going concern.
Together with additional procedures performed at the consolidated level, this scope of work gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Consistency of other information if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Companies Act 2006 opinions explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to In our opinion: report arising from this responsibility.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Directors remuneration statements are prepared is consistent with the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you statements: and if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report set out in the Governance section with respect to internal arising from these responsibilities.
control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you ISAs UK & Ireland reporting if, in our opinion, a corporate governance statement has not been Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, prepared by the parent company.
We have no exceptions to report in our opinion: arising from this responsibility.
Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to materially inconsistent with the report arising from this Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the information in the audited financial responsibility.
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the parent statements: or companys compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate apparently materially incorrect Governance Code.
We have nothing to report having performed based on, or materially inconsistent our review.
with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL performing our audit: or STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT otherwise misleading.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors the statement given by the We have no exceptions to As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors directors on page 92, in accordance report arising from this Responsibilities set out on page 92, the directors are responsible with provision C. 1.1 of the UK responsibility.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Corporate Governance Code satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the whole to be fair, balanced and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs understandable and provides the UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the information necessary for members Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy is This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and materially inconsistent with our only for the companys members as a body in accordance with knowledge of the group acquired in Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other the course of performing our audit.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the section of the Annual Report on We have no exceptions to responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to page 60, as required by provision report arising from this whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the responsibility.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100 Independent Auditors Report continued to the members of St. Jamess Place plc What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31December 2014 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 24 February 2015 Notes: The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2014 2013 Million Million Insurance premium income 57.4 61.2 Less premiums ceded to reinsurers 33.5 54.3 Net insurance premium income 23.9 6.9 Fee and commission income 4 1,201.0 1,013.3 Investment return 5 3,347.1 5,831.1 Other operating income 1.2 2.5 Net income 3 4,573.2 6,853.8 Policy claims and benefits Gross amount 58.8 50.2 Reinsurers share 24.1 20.5 Net policyholder claims and benefits incurred 34.7 29.7 Change in insurance contract liabilities Gross amount 8.0 42.3 Reinsurers share 21.2 25.6 Net change in insurance contract liabilities 13.2 16.7 Investment contract benefits 24 3,234.4 5,449.4 Fees, commission and other acquisition costs 824.0 734.7 Administration expenses 195.7 158.9 Other operating expenses 3.2 3.2 6 1,022.9 896.8 Profit before tax 3 294.4 461.2 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 8 111.5 270.5 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income continued Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2014 2013 Million Million Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Total tax expense 8 106.5 270.9 Less: tax attributable to policyholders returns 8 111.5 270.5 Tax attributable to shareholders returns 8 5.0 0.4 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 187.9 190.3 Profit loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.1 0.2 Profit attributable to equity shareholders 188.0 190.5 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 187.9 190.3 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 10 36.6 37.4 Diluted earnings per share 10 35.9 36.7 The notes and information below and on pages 106 to 152 form part of these financial statements.
Underlying profit measure Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2014 2013 Million Million Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Adjustments: DAC DIR PVIF 9.3 3.5 Underlying profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 173.6 187.2 Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 187.9 190.3 Adjustments: DAC DIR PVIF 7.0 14.9 Underlying profit and total comprehensive income for the year 180.9 175.4 Pence Pence Underlying basic earnings per share 10 35.2 34.4 Underlying diluted earnings per share 10 34.6 33.8 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Attributable to Equity Shareholders Treasury NonShare Share Shares Retained Misc controlling Interests Total Note Capital Premium Reserve Earnings Reserves Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Million At 1 January 2013 76.0 127.7 8.9 565.4 2.3 762.5 762.5 Non-controlling interests arising on the purchase of subsidiaries during the year 0.2 0.2 Profit loss and total comprehensive income for the year 190.5 190.5 0.2 190.3 Dividends 11 65.3 65.3 65.3 Issue of share capital 0.3 0.3 0.3 Exercise of options 1.0 14.5 15.5 15.5 Consideration paid for own shares 5.3 5.3 5.3 Own shares vesting charge 4.0 4.0 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 7.8 7.8 7.8 Retained earnings credit in respect of proceeds from exercise of share options held in trust 0.1 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 77.3 142.2 10.2 694.5 2.3 906.1 906.1 Non-controlling interests arising on the purchase of subsidiaries during the year Profit loss and total comprehensive income for the year 188.0 188.0 0.1 187.9 Dividends 11 95.5 95.5 95.5 Issue of share capital 0.2 0.2 0.2 Exercise of options 0.4 5.2 5.6 5.6 Consideration paid for own shares 5.2 5.2 5.2 Own shares vesting charge 4.9 4.9 Retained earnings credit in respect of share option charges 11.0 11.0 11.0 At 31 December 2014 77.9 147.4 10.5 793.1 2.3 1,010.2 0.1 1,010.1 The number of shares held in the Treasury Share Reserve is given in Note 31 Share Capital on page 144.
Miscellaneous reserves represent other non-distributable reserves.
The notes and information on pages 106 to 152 form part of these financial statements.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 31 December 31 December Notes 2014 2013 Million Million Assets Goodwill 12 10.1 Intangible assets Deferred acquisition costs 13 813.0 888.8 Acquired value of in-force business 13 36.8 40.0 Computer software 13 7.7 8.7 867.6 937.5 Property & equipment 14 7.9 5.8 Deferred tax assets 15 192.8 181.8 Investment property 16 1,031.4 732.7 Investments Equities 34,734.9 29,614.8 Fixed income securities 6,838.8 5,965.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,961.7 3,244.3 Derivative Financial Instruments 166.4 142.9 Reinsurance assets 22 85.5 64.2 Insurance and investment contract receivables 63.5 49.9 Other receivables 18 604.6 554.0 Cash & cash equivalents 19 5,139.4 3,845.7 Total assets 52,694.5 45,339.3 Liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 21 474.4 466.4 Other provisions 23 11.4 9.7 Financial liabilities Investment contracts benefits 24 38,851.2 33,717.5 Borrowings 25 84.3 98.7 Derivative Financial Instruments 79.3 87.8 Deferred tax liabilities 26 519.8 496.6 Insurance and investment contract payables 50.4 38.1 Deferred income 27 463.2 538.6 Income tax liabilities 32.8 4.9 Other payables 28 499.7 439.4 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 17 10,617.8 8,535.4 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 Total liabilities 51,684.4 44,433.2 Net assets 1,010.1 906.1 Shareholders equity Share capital 31 77.9 77.3 Share premium 147.4 142.2 Treasury shares reserve 10.5 10.2 Miscellaneous reserves 2.3 2.3 Retained earnings 793.1 694.5 Shareholders equity 1,010.2 906.1 Non-controlling interests 0.1 Total equity 1,010.1 906.1 Pence Pence Net assets per share 194.5 175.9 The financial statements on pages 101 to 152 were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The notes and information on pages 106 to 152 form part of these financial statements.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Notes 2014 2013 Million Million Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax for the year 294.4 461.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation 14 1.9 1.6 Revaluation 14 0.1 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force business 13 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of computer software and customer list 13 2.8 2.5 Share-based payment charge 32 11.4 7.8 Interest income 21.9 22.5 Interest paid 3.8 2.8 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Decrease in deferred acquisition costs net 75.8 82.8 Increase in investment property 298.7 135.1 Increase in investments 5,734.1 9,382.2 Increase in reinsurance assets 21.3 25.6 Increase in insurance and investment contract receivables 13.6 3.4 Increase in other receivables 84.9 22.4 Increase in insurance contract liabilities 8.0 42.4 Increase in provisions 1.7 0.5 Increase in financial liabilities excluding borrowings 5,125.2 6,605.0 Increase in insurance and investment contract payables 12.3 13.2 Decrease in deferred income 75.4 77.9 Increase in other payables 60.3 3.6 Increase in net assets attributable to unit holders 2,082.4 3,241.9 Cash generated from operating activities 1,433.3 799.5 Interest received 21.9 22.5 Interest paid 3.8 2.8 Income taxes paid 35.5 14.8 Net cash generated from operating activities 1,415.9 804.4 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of property & equipment 4.0 3.8 Acquisition disposal of intangible assets 13 1.8 0.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business combinations, net of cash acquired 7.2 9.1 Net cash from investing activities 13.0 12.4 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 5.9 15.8 Consideration paid for own shares 5.2 5.3 Proceeds from exercise of options over shares held in trust 0.1 Proceeds from issue of non-redeemable preference shares 0.1 Acquisition of non-controlling interests 0.2 Additional borrowings 30.0 Repayment of borrowings 14.4 2.0 Dividends paid 11 95.5 65.3 Net cash used in financing activities 109.2 26.4 Net increase in cash & cash equivalents 1,293.7 765.6 Cash & cash equivalents at 1 January 3,845.7 3,080.1 Cash & cash equivalents at 31 December 5,139.4 3,845.7 Exchange rate fluctuations result from cash held in the unit-linked funds.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES St. Jamess Place plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
Statement of Compliance The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRSIC and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable when reporting under IFRS.
The following amended standards and interpretation, which the Group have adopted as of 1 January 2014, have not had any material impact on the Groups reported results: IAS 32 Amendment Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Amendment Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS IC Interpretation 21 Levies Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle As at 31 December 2014, the following new and amended standards, which are relevant to the Group but have not been applied in the financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IAS 1 Amendment Disclosure Initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendments Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle The adoption of the above standards and interpretation is not expected to have any material impact on the Groups results reported within the financial statements other than requiring additional disclosure or alternative presentation.
However the impact of these standards will continue to be monitored.
The Group financial statements also comply with the revised Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers in December 2005 as amended in December 2006, to the extent that it is consistent with IFRS standards.
Basis of Preparation As discussed in the Directors Report, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand pounds.
They are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for assets classified as investment property, available-for-sale financial assets and assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years, if the revision affects both current and future years.
Judgements made by management in the application of IFRSs that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in Note2.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and the accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these consolidated financial statements.
An underlying profit measure has been included as a useful measure of performance.
This is a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP measure and is derived from the IFRS based Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns by excluding the movement in DAC, DIR and PVIF.
A reconciliation to the underlying profit is set out in the Financial Review on page 19.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information incorporates the assets, liabilities and the results of the Company and of its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control and are accounted for at fair value through the profit or loss.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations and expenses all acquisition costs as they are incurred.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The treatment of transactions with non-controlling interests depends on whether, as a result of the transaction, the Group alters control of the subsidiary.
Changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions: any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent entity.
Where the Group loses control of the subsidiary, at the date when control is lost the amount of any non-controlling interest in that former subsidiary is derecognised and any investment retained in the former subsidiary is remeasured to its fair value: the gain or loss that is recognised in profit or loss on the partial disposal of the subsidiary includes the gain or loss on the remeasurement of the retained interest.
Intragroup balances, and any income and expenses or unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
b Product classification The Groups products are classified for accounting purposes as either insurance contracts or investment contracts.
i Insurance contracts Insurance contracts are contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
The Groups product range includes a variety of term assurance and whole of life protection contracts involving significant insurance risk transfer.
ii Investment contracts Contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are treated as investment contracts.
The majority of the business written by the Group is unit linked investment business and is classified as investment contracts.
c Long term business i Insurance premium revenue For unit linked insurance contracts, premiums are recognised as revenue when the liabilities arising from them are recognised.
All other premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Investment contract premiums are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are reported as deposits to investment contract liabilities in the balance sheet.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ii Revenue from investment contracts Fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts are recognised as revenue as the services are provided.
Initial fees, including dealing margins from unit trusts, which exceed the level of recurring fees and relate to the future provision of services, are deferred.
These are amortised over the anticipated period in which services will be provided.
iii Policy claims and benefits For insurance contracts, death claims are accounted for on notification of death.
Critical illness claims are accounted for when admitted.
All other claims and surrenders are accounted for when payment is due.
For investment contracts, benefits paid are not included in the statement of comprehensive income but are instead deducted from investment contract liabilities.
The movement in investment contract benefits within the statement of comprehensive income principally represents the investment return credited to policyholders.
Explicit advice charges are payable to St. Jamess Place distribution company by most clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place retail investment product.
St. Jamess Place facilitates the payment of these charges for the client, by arranging withdrawals from the clients policy, which are then recognised as income to St. Jamess Place distribution company.
A proportion of the charge is then paid to the St. Jamess Place adviser Partner who provides the advice see g i Expenses.
iv Acquisition costs For insurance contracts, acquisition costs comprise direct costs such as initial commission and the indirect costs of obtaining and processing new business.
Acquisition costs which are incurred during a financial year, net of any impairment losses, are deferred and then amortised on a straight line basis over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable and in accordance with the incidence of future related margins.
For investment contracts, only directly attributable acquisition costs, which vary with and are related to securing new contracts and renewing existing contracts, are deferred, and only to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue.
These deferred acquisition costs, which represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services, net of any impairment losses, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the Groups investment contracts.
All other costsare recognised as expenses when incurred.
Note, following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review RDR on 31December 2012, the initial advice costs are no longer an acquisition cost linked to the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and so they are no longer deferred.
The period over which costs are expected to be recoverable are as follows: Insurance contracts: 6 years Investment contracts: 12-14 years v Insurance contract liabilities Insurance contract liability provisions are determined following an annual actuarial investigation of the long-term fund in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The provisions are calculated on the basis of current information and using the gross premium valuation method.
The Groups accounting policies for insurance contracts meet the minimum specified requirements for liability adequacy testing under IFRS 4, as they consider current estimates of all contractual cash flows, and of related cash flow such as claims handling costs.
Insurance contract liabilities can never be definitive as to their timing nor the amount of claims and are therefore subject to subsequent reassessment on a regular basis.
vi Investment contract liabilities All of the Groups investment contracts are unit linked.
Unit linked liabilities are measured at fair value by reference to the value of the underlying net asset value of the Groups unitised investment funds, determined on a bid value, at the reporting date.
An allowance for deductions due to or from the Company in respect of policyholder tax on capital gains and losses in the life assurance funds is also reflected in the measurement of unit linked liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities are recognised when units are first allocated to the policyholder: they are derecognised when units allocated to the policyholder have been cancelled.
The decision by the Group to designate its unit linked liabilities as fair value through the profit and loss statement reflects the fact that the underlying investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 vii Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables Insurance and investment contract receivables and payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
d Reinsurance Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment, and reinsurance recoveries, in respect of insurance contract liabilities, are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of claims and amounts payable in respect of future reinsurance premiums are reported as part of insurance and investment contract receivables and payables, respectively.
e Fee and commission income Fee and commission income comprises: i advice charges paid by clients who wish to receive advice with their investment in a St. Jamess Place or third party retail investment product: ii commission, due in respect of products sold on behalf of third parties: and iii fees charged for services related to the management of investment contracts.
Advice charges and commission are recognised in full on acceptance and inception of the associated policy by the relevant product provider.
Where the product provider retains the right to clawback of commission on an indemnity basis, turnover on sale of these products is recognised net of a provision for the estimated clawback.
Investment contract management fees are generally recognised as revenue as the services are provided see also accounting policy note c ii.
f Investment return Investment return comprises investment income and investment gains and losses.
Investment income includes dividends, interest and rental income from investment properties under operating leases.
Dividends are accrued on an ex-dividend basis, and rental income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest, which is generated on assets classified as fair value through profit or loss, is accounted for on an accruals basis.
g Expenses i Partner remuneration Partner remuneration comprises initial commission and initial advice fees IAF paid for initial advice, at policy outset and within an initial period, renewal commission and renewal advice fees payable on regular contributions and fund fee commission or ongoing advice fee OAF based on funds under management and payable on the policy anniversary.
Initial and renewal commission and advice fees are recognised in line with the associated premium income, but initial commission on insurance and investment contracts may be deferred as set out in accounting policy c iv.
Fund fee commission and ongoing advice fee are recognised on an accruals basis.
Commission and advice fees in respect of some insurance and investment business may be paid in advance on renewal premiums and accelerated by up to five years.
The unearned element of this accelerated remuneration is recognised as an asset within other receivables.
Should the contributions reduce or stop within the initial period, any unearned amount is recovered.
ii Operating lease payments Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership is retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense and are spread over the life of the lease.
h Income taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax payable by the Group in respect of policyholders and shareholders.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
i Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
iii Policyholder and shareholder tax The total income tax charge is a separate adjustment within the statement of comprehensive income based on the movement in current and deferred income taxes in respect of income, gains and expenses.
The total charge reflects tax incurred on behalf of policyholders as well as shareholders, and so it is useful to be able to identify these separately.
Shareholder tax is estimated by making an assessment of the effective rate of tax that is applicable to the shareholders, with the balance being treated as tax in respect of policyholders.
i Dividends paid Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid, and, for the final dividend, are disclosed but unpaid when approved by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
j Intangible assets i Deferred acquisition costs See accounting policy c iv.
ii Acquired value of in-force business The acquired value of in-force business in respect of insurance business represents the present value of profits that are expected to emerge from insurance business acquired on business combinations.
It is calculated at the time of acquisition using best estimate actuarial assumptions for interest, mortality, persistency and expenses, net of any impairment losses, and it is amortised on a straight line basis as profits emerge over the anticipated lives of the related contracts in the portfolio.
An intangible asset is also recognised in respect of acquired investment management contracts representing the fair value of contractual rights acquired under those contracts.
The acquired value of in-force business is expressed as a gross figure in the balance sheet with the associated tax included within deferred tax liabilities.
It is assessed for impairment at each reporting date and any movement is charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
iii Computer software Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Computer software is recognised as an intangible asset during development with amortisation commencing when the software is operational.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to administration expenses on a straight-line basis over four years, being the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
k Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired entity is greater than the cost of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and is reviewed at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
If an impairment is identified, the carrying value of the goodwill is written down immediately through the statement of comprehensive income and is not subsequently reversed.
At the date of disposal of a subsidiary, the carrying value of attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal except where it has been written off directly to reserves in the past.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 l Property & equipment Items of property & equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Land is shown at fair value, based on valuations by external independent valuers.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and any assets that may have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to administration expenses on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the property & equipment as follows: Computers: 3 years Fixtures and fittings: 5 years Office equipment: 5 years Land is not depreciated.
m Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and their fair value less costs to sell.
n Investment property Investment properties, which are all held within the unit linked funds, are properties which are held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation.
They are stated at fair value.
An external, independent valuer, having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, values the portfolio every month.
The fair values are based on open market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within investment income.
Rental return from investment property is accounted for as described in accounting policy f. o Investments The Groups investments are initially and subsequently recognised at fair value through profit or loss, with all gains and losses recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
The fair values of quoted financial investments, which represent the vast majority of the Groups investments, are based on the value within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value.
If the market for a financial investment is not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques such as recent arms length transactions, reference to similar listed investments, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models.
The decision by the Group to designate its investments at fair value through the profit and loss reflects the fact that the investment portfolio is managed, and its performance evaluated, on a fair value basis.
The Group recognises purchases and sales of investments on trade date.
The costs associated with investment transactions are included within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
p Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments within some unit linked funds, with each contract initially and subsequently recognised at fair value, based on observable market prices.
All changes in value are recognised within investment income in the statement of comprehensive income.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued q Other receivables Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses, except for renewal income which is held at fair value.
The value of any impairment recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
See accounting policy note r for information relating to the treatment of impaired amounts.
r Impairment policy i Non-financial assets Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
ii Financial assets Formal reviews to assess the recoverability of financial assets are carried out at each reporting date.
The recoverability of such assets is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
If there is any indication of irrecoverability or impairment, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on the present value of its estimated future cash flows.
Impairment losses are reversed through the statement of comprehensive income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
Such losses are reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation where applicable, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
s Cash & cash equivalents Cash & cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments, and bank overdrafts to the extent that they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Cash & cash equivalents held within unit linked and unit trust funds are classified at fair value through the profit and loss.
All other cash & cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
t Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events such that it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are measured as the discounted expected future cash flows taking account of the risks and uncertainties associated with the specific liability where appropriate.
u Borrowings Borrowings are measured initially at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently stated at amortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the borrowing period on an effective interest rate basis.
Borrowings are recognised on drawdown and derecognised on repayment.
v Other payables Other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
w Net asset value attributable to unit holders The Group consolidates unit trusts in which it holds more than 30% of the units and exercises control.
The third party interests in these unit trusts are measured at fair value, since the underlying investment portfolios are managed on a fair value basis, and they are presented in the balance sheet as net asset value attributable to unit holders.
Income attributable to the third party interests is accounted for within investment income, offset by a corresponding change in investment contract benefits.
x Employee benefits i Pension obligations The Group operates a defined contribution personal pension plan for its employees.
Contributions to this plan are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 ii Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment plans.
The fair value of equity instruments granted is recognised as an expense spread over the vesting period of the instrument which accords with the period for which related services are provided, with a corresponding increase in equity in the case of equity settled plans.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the awards at the grant date, measured using standard option pricing models.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments that are expected to vest and it recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the statement of comprehensive income, such that the amount recognised for employee services are based on the number of shares that actually vest.
The charge to the statement of comprehensive income is not revised for any changes in market vesting conditions.
y Treasury shares Where any Group company purchases the Companys share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from equity attributable to shareholders, as disclosed in the Treasury Shares reserve.
Where such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity attributable to shareholders, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects.
z Foreign currency translation The Groups presentation and the Companys functional currency is pounds Sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and the gain or losses on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are held at historical cost are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction: those held at fair value are translated using exchange rates ruling at the date on which the fair value was determined.
aa Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board.
ab Current and non-current disclosure Assets which are expected to be recovered or settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those expected to be recovered or settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
Liabilities which are expected and due to be settled no more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as current within the notes to the financial statements.
Those liabilities which are expected and due to be settled more than twelve months after the reporting date are disclosed as non-current.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES Judgements The primary areas in which the Group has applied judgement in applying accounting policies are in the classification of contracts between insurance and investment business and when applying the concept of control to determine which entities are subsidiaries.
Classification of contracts between insurance and investment business Contracts with a significant degree of insurance risk are treated as insurance.
All other contracts are treated as investment contracts.
The Group has also elected to treat all assets backing linked and non unit linked contracts as fair value through profit or loss although some of the assets in question may ultimately be held to maturity.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity including unit trusts in which the Group holds more than 30% of the units.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Estimates The principal areas in which the Group applies accounting estimates are: Determining the value of insurance contract liabilities.
Deciding the amount of management expenses that are treated as acquisition expenses.
Amortisation and recoverability of deferred acquisition costs and deferred income.
Determining the fair value, amortisation and recoverability of acquired in-force business.
Determining the fair value liability to policyholders for capital losses in unit funds.
Determining the value of deferred tax assets.
Determining the fair value of financial instruments and investment property.
Determining the fair value of share-based payments.
Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership loans.
Measurement of prepaid operational readiness costs.
Fair value estimation of assets acquired.
Estimates are also applied in determining the amount of deferred tax asset recognised on unrelieved expenses and the value of otherprovisions.
Measurement of insurance contract liabilities The assumptions used in the calculation of insurance contract liabilities that have a significant effect on the statement of comprehensive income of the Group are: The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on an investigation of experience during the year.
The level of expenses, which is based on actual expenses in 2014 and expected long term rates.
The mortality and morbidity rates, which are based on the results of an investigation of experience during the year.
The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
Greater detail on the assumptions applied is shown in Note 21.
Acquisition expenses Certain management expenses vary with the level of new business and have been treated as acquisition costs.
Each line of costs has beenreviewed and its variability to new business volumes estimated on the basis of the level of costs that would be incurred if new business ceased.
Amortisation and recoverability of Deferred Acquisition Costs DAC and Deferred Income DIR Deferred acquisition costs on investment contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts.
The expected lifetime of the contracts has been estimated from the experienced termination rates and the age of clients at inception and maturity.
Deferred income on investment contracts is amortised on a straight line basis over the expected lifetime of the underlying contracts, although on certain contracts, the impacts of early withdrawal charges means the income is effectively recognised over a shorter period.
Deferred acquisition costs on insurance contracts are amortised over the period during which the costs are expected to be recoverable in accordance with the projected emergence of future margins.
Deferred acquisition costs relating to insurance and investment contracts are tested annually for recoverability by reference to expectedfuture income levels.
Future income levels are projected using assumptions consistent with those underlying our embedded value calculation.
Acquired in-force business There have been no new business combinations generating acquired in-force business during the year.
The acquired value of the in-force business is amortised on a basis that reflects the expected profit stream arising from the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
This profit stream is estimated from the experienced termination rates, expenses of management and age of the clients under the individual contracts as well as global estimates of investment growth, based on recent experience at the date of acquisition.
The acquired value of in-force business relating to insurance and investment contracts is tested annually for recoverability by reference to expected future income levels.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 Valuing capital losses in the unit funds In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised a deferred tax asset in relation to capital losses in the unit funds at the reporting date.
This asset has been tested for impairment against the level of capital gains realistically expected to arise in future.
Much of the benefit of the deferred tax asset on capital losses in the unit funds will be shared with policyholders.
The policyholder investment contract liability has therefore been increased to reflect the fair value of this additional benefit.
The assumptions that have a significant effect on the fair value of the liability are as follows: The assumed rate of investment return, which is based on current gilt yields.
The lapse assumption, which is set prudently based on experience during the year.
The assumed period for development of capital gains, which is estimated from recent experience.
Determining the value of deferred tax assets In line with IAS 12, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets for future tax benefits that will accrue.
The asset value has taken intoconsideration the likelihood of appropriate future income or gains against which the tax asset can be utilised.
In particular, futureinvestment income from the existing assets will be sufficient to utilise the unrelieved expenses, and capital gains crystallising inthe unit linked funds will utilise the capital losses.
Tax assets in relation to deferred income will be utilised as the underlying income is recognised.
Determining the fair value of financial instruments and investment property In accordance with IFRS 13, the Group categorises financial instruments carried on the balance sheet at fair value using a three level hierarchy.
Financial instruments categorised as level 1 are valued using quoted market prices and therefore there is minimal judgement applied in determining fair value.
However, the fair value of financial instruments categorised as level 2 and, in particular, level 3 is determined using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques involve management judgement and estimates, the extent of which depends on the complexity of the instrument and the availability of market observable information.
Further details of these valuations are described in Note 29.
Determining the fair value of share-based payments In determining the fair value of share-based payments and the related charge to the income statement, the Group makes assumptions about the future events and market conditions.
In particular, judgement must be formed as to the likely number of shares that will vest, and the fair value of each award granted.
Further details of these assumptions used are described in Note 32.
Recoverability of St. Jamess Place Partnership loans During the normal course of business the Group provides loans to St. Jamess Place Partners in order to support the development and growth of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost less impairment losses.
The recoverability of loans is measured and the asset is deemed impaired if the projected future margins are less than the carrying value of the asset.
The allowance for impairment losses on St. Jamess Place Partnership loans is managements best estimate of losses incurred in the portfolio at the statement of financial position date.
Measurement of prepaid operational readiness costs Included within prepayments are operational readiness costs relating to the new administration service agreement which are initially recognised at the amounts advanced.
The prepayment is expensed in line with the provision of services under the service agreement.
At each statement of financial position date, the value of the prepayment is assessed for impairment recognised against the present value of the estimated future contract benefits.
In determining the present value of the estimated future contract benefits, the critical judgements are the levels of future business that will be serviced, the anticipated future service tariffs, terminations fees payable and receivable under the contract and the rate used to discount amounts to present value.
Fair value estimation of assets acquired In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, as of the acquisition date, the Group recognises, separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and classifies the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the contractual terms, economic conditions, its operating or accounting policies and other pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date.
The Group measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of theGroup that are regularly reviewed by the Board in order to allocate resources to each segment and assess its performance.
TheGroups reportable segments under IFRS 8 are therefore as follows: 1.
Life business offering pensions, protection and investment products through the Groups life assurance subsidiaries.
Unit Trust business offering unit trust investment products, including ISAs, through the St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group.
Distribution business the distribution network for the St. Jamess Place life and unit trust products as well as financial products such as annuities, mortgages and stakeholder pensions, from third party providers.
The figures for segment income provided to the Board in respect of the distribution business relate to the distribution of the products of third party providers only.
The figures for segment profit provided to the Board take account of fees and commissions payable by the life business and unit trust business to the distribution business.
Other all other Group activities.
Separate geographical segmental information is not presented since the Group does not segment its business geographically.
Most of its customers are based in the United Kingdom, as is management of the assets.
In particular, the new operation based in South East Asia is not yet material for separate consideration.
The income, profit and assets of these segments are set out below.
Segment Income Annual Premium Equivalents APE APE, being regular premiums plus one tenth of single premiums, is the income measure that is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business 583.0 532.9 Unit Trust business 312.6 230.0 Distribution business 111.6 102.3 Total APE 1,007.2 865.2 Adjustments to reconcile to IFRS basis Life business Exclude investment business APE 580.7 530.5 Difference between insurance business APE and premium receivable 55.2 58.8 Less insurance premium income ceded to reinsurers 33.5 54.3 Fee income management fees and initial margin 520.8 460.7 Net movement on deferred income 64.7 70.8 Investment income primarily in unit linked funds 2,914.6 4,886.3 Unit Trust business Exclude unit trust APE 312.6 230.0 Fee income dealing profit and management fees 170.0 150.9 Net movement on deferred income 10.7 7.1 Investment income 0.4 0.3 Distribution business Exclude distribution APE 111.7 102.3 Fee and commission income receivable 429.3 319.2 Other investment income 0.3 0.2 Other business Income receivable 5.5 4.6 Investment income on third party holdings in consolidated unit trusts 425.9 939.2 Other investment income 5.9 5.1 Other operating income 1.2 2.5 Total adjustments 3,566.0 5,988.6 Net income IFRS 4,573.2 6,853.8 All segment income is generated by external customers and there are no segment income transactions between operating segments as measured by APE.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 Segment Profit Three separate measures of profit are monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
These are pre-tax European Embedded Value EEV, post-tax cash result and the pre-tax IFRS result.
Going forward an additional profit measure underlying profit will be monitored by the chief operating decision maker.
This measure has been included on a pre-tax basis below for information.
EEV Operating Profit EEV operating profit is monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
The components of the EEV operating profit are included in more detail in the Supplementary Information on EEV basis within the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 163 to 173.
A reconciliation of EEV operating profit to IFRS profit before tax is shown below.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business 467.0 365.7 Unit Trust business 177.7 130.8 Distribution business 10.9 6.1 Other business 37.4 27.7 EEV operating profit 596.4 462.7 Investment return variance 80.2 344.2 Economic assumption changes 7.0 10.6 EEV profit before tax 669.6 817.5 Adjustments to IFRS basis Deduct: amortisation of acquired value of in-force 3.2 3.2 Movement in life value of in-force net of tax 241.7 360.1 Movement in unit trust value of in-force net of tax 104.9 122.8 Tax of movement in value of in-force 136.9 140.7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Tax attributable to policyholder returns 111.5 270.5 IFRS profit before tax 294.4 461.2 Cash Result Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business 146.2 143.8 Unit Trust business 48.1 44.8 Distribution business 8.5 4.7 Other business 20.7 15.1 Cash result after tax 165.1 168.8 IFRS adjustments after tax Share option expense 11.4 7.8 Deferred acquisition costs DAC 58.6 62.9 Deferred income DIR 68.0 67.9 Acquired value of in-force PVIF 2.6 2.6 Sterling reserves 7.4 0.4 IFRS deferred tax adjustments 34.8 26.5 IFRS profit after tax 187.9 190.3 Shareholder tax 5.0 0.4 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Policyholder tax 111.5 270.5 IFRS profit before tax 294.4 461.2 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 3.
SEGMENT REPORTING continued IFRS Result Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business shareholder 171.7 170.6 policyholder tax gross up 111.5 270.5 Unit Trust business 59.5 53.9 Distribution business 10.9 6.1 Other business 37.4 27.7 IFRS profit before tax 294.4 461.2 Underlying profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business 160.7 162.7 Unit Trust business 61.2 58.3 Distribution business 10.9 6.1 Other business 37.4 27.7 Underlying profit 173.6 187.2 Adjustments DAC DIR PVIF 9.3 3.5 IFRS profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Included within the EEV, IFRS profit before tax, post-tax cash result and underlying profit are the following: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Shareholder interest income 8.8 7.3 Depreciation 1.9 1.6 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 Segment Assets Funds under Management FUM FUM within the St. Jamess Place Group, rounded to the nearest 0.1 billion, are monitored on a monthly basis by the Board.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business 39,200.0 34,100.0 Unit Trust business 12,800.0 10,200.0 Total FUM 52,000.0 44,300.0 Exclude third party holdings in non-consolidated unit trusts 2,086.4 1,665.6 Add balance sheet liabilities in unit linked funds 480.9 545.6 Adjustments for other balance sheet assets excluded from FUM DAC 813.0 888.8 PVIF 36.8 40.0 Computer software 7.7 8.7 Goodwill 10.1 Property & equipment 7.9 5.8 Deferred tax assets 192.8 181.8 Fixed income securities 83.3 67.7 Collective investment schemes 521.7 523.0 Reinsurance assets 85.5 64.2 Insurance and investment contract receivables 63.5 49.9 Other receivables 292.6 229.9 Other receivables eliminated on consolidation 94.9 151.9 Cash & cash equivalents 274.3 197.1 Other adjustments 5.7 54.3 Total adjustments 694.5 1,039.3 Total assets 52,694.5 45,339.3 4.
FEE AND COMMISSION INCOME Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Advice charges 340.4 250.8 Third party fee and commission income 94.4 73.0 Life company initial margin 26.3 27.9 Life company management fees 494.5 432.8 Unit Trust dealing profit 16.0 19.1 Unit Trust management fees 122.4 105.3 Unit Trust other income 31.6 26.5 Movement in deferred income 75.4 77.9 Total fee and commission income 1,201.0 1,013.3 These figures have been re-presented to more appropriately reflect the management fee income for life and unit trust business.
INVESTMENT RETURN Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Dividend income 505.3 455.6 Interest income 23.4 22.5 Rental income 50.8 41.8 Unit linked funds cross holding investment income 423.1 358.1 Net realised gains 381.5 454.1 Net unrealised gains 1,537.1 3,559.8 Income attributable to third party holdings in unit trusts 425.9 939.2 Total investment return 3,347.1 5,831.1 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 6.
EXPENSES The following items are included within the expenses disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Employee costs see Note 7 111.7 88.6 Depreciation 1.9 1.6 Revaluations 0.1 Amortisation of acquired value of in-force business 3.2 3.2 Amortisation of DAC 102.7 117.1 Amortisation of computer software 2.8 2.5 Deferral of DAC 26.9 34.3 Partner remuneration 455.4 407.1 Payment under operating leases 13.8 10.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent Company and consolidated financialstatements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.1 Non-audit related services 7.
EMPLOYEE COSTS Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Wages and salaries 84.2 66.9 Social security costs 10.1 8.9 Other pension costs in relation to defined contribution schemes 6.0 5.0 Cost of share awards and options 11.4 7.8 Total employee costs 111.7 88.6 Average monthly number of persons employed by the Group during the year 1,225 985 The above information includes Directors remuneration.
Details of the Directors remuneration, share options, pension entitlements and interests in shares are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 87.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 8.
INCOME TAXES Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million UK corporation tax Current year charge 96.2 29.0 Adjustment in respect of prior year 7.6 2.5 Overseas taxes Current year charge 6.9 6.8 95.5 38.3 Deferred tax on unrealised capital gains and losses in unit linked funds 40.6 278.1 Deferred tax on unrelieved expenses 8.4 2.2 Deferred tax on pensions business losses 6.4 Deferred tax on Group Company capital losses Current year 29.6 27.9 Adjustment in respect of prior year 6.8 Deferred tax charge on other items 13.3 14.2 Effect on deferred tax of change in tax rate 12.0 Overseas taxes 1.9 11.0 232.6 Total tax charge for the year 106.5 270.9 Attributable to: policyholders 111.5 270.5 shareholders 5.0 0.4 106.5 270.9 The prior year adjustment in current tax above includes a credit of 0.6 million in respect of policyholder tax 2013: 1.7 million charge.
In arriving at the profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns, it is necessary to estimate the analysis of the total tax charge between that payable in respect of policyholders and that payable by shareholders.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Deferred tax 2014 2013 Million Million Balance at 1 January 314.8 78.1 Charge through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 11.0 232.6 Arising on acquisitions during the year 1.2 4.1 Balance at 31 December 327.0 314.8 The deferred tax components to which movements above relate to are disclosed in Note 15 Deferred Tax Assets and Note 26 Deferred Tax Liabilities.
Included within the deferred tax current year charge is a credit of 1.5 million 2013: 1.7million credit relating to share-based payments.
Details of share-based payments are disclosed in Note 32 Share-based Payments.
The change in the corporation tax rate from 21% to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 had already been incorporated into the deferred tax balances in 2013.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 8.
INCOME TAXES continued Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of tax charge 2014 2013 Million Million Profit before tax 294.4 461.2 Tax at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 63.3 107.2 Effects of: Overseas rates and bases of tax 3.6 2.4 Shareholder deduction for policyholder tax 87.5 207.6 Group company capital losses 39.5 27.9 Share options 2.1 2.7 Disallowable expenses 0.9 1.4 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.2 0.8 Change in tax rate 12.0 Other adjustments 0.2 1.1 Total tax charge for the year 106.5 270.9 Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December Reconciliation of tax charge 2014 2013 Million Million Profit before tax 294.4 461.2 Tax attributable to policyholders returns 111.5 270.5 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders returns 182.9 190.7 Shareholder tax charge at corporate tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 39.3 21.5% 44.3 23.25% Adjustments: Tax regime differences Difference due to overseas subsidiaries 3.6 2.0% 2.4 1.3% Other Creation of deferred tax asset on Group Company capital losses 39.5 27.9 Adjustment in respect of prior year 0.2 0.8 Share options 2.1 2.7 Disallowable expenses 0.9 1.4 Other 0.2 1.1 40.7 22.3% 29.5 15.5% Change in tax rate 12.0 6.3% Shareholder tax charge 5.0 2.7% 0.4 0.2% Policyholder tax charge 111.5 270.5 Total tax charge for the year 106.5 270.9 Tax attributable to policyholder returns is equal to the policyholder tax charge.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 9. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS During the year the Group acquired the following subsidiaries in line with the Groups strategic objective of growing the Partnership: Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity % Shareholding Date of acquisition PFP Group PFPTime Limited IFA 100 24 January 2014 G. M. B Financial Services Limited Non-trading 100 24 January 2014 PFPTime IFA Limited Dormant 100 24 January 2014 Henley Group Henley Wealth Management International Pte Limited Holding Company 100 10 June 2014 Australian Expatriate Services Limited Dormant 100 10 June 2014 Expatriate Insurance Group Limited Dormant 100 10 June 2014 International Protection Group Pte Limited General Insurance 100 10 June 2014 The Henley Group Limited IFA 100 10 June 2014 The Henley Group Pte Limited IFA 100 10 June 2014 THG Wealth Management Limited UK Distribution 100 10 June 2014 Independent Financial Adviser Acquisition-related costs of 0.1 million have been charged to administration expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014.
PFP Group The PFP Group acquisition contributed 0.8 million to revenue and a 0.2 million profit before income tax for the period between the acquisition date and the statement of financial position date.
The net assets, fair value adjustments and consideration for these acquisitions are summarised below all values shown as at their acquisition dates : Fair value Book value adjustment Total Million Million Million Financial assets 0.1 1.8 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.4 Financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 Total 1.0 1.8 0.8 Consideration Cash consideration 0.5 Contingent consideration 0.3 Total consideration 0.8 The contingent consideration is payable if certain performance targets are met, being based on the individual Partner performances.
It is expected this will be paid in full with no changes to the amount initially recognised.
The carrying amount of the contingent consideration at the statement of financial position date is 0.3 million.
Of the remaining balance to be settled, the Group expects that 0.15 million will be settled by 24 April 2015 and another 0.15 million settled by 24 April 2016.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 9. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued The Henley Group The Henley Group acquisition contributed 3.8 million to revenue and a 1.7 million loss before income tax for the period between the acquisition date and the statement of financial position date.
Had the above acquisitions been consolidated from 1 January 2014, they would have contributed 5.5 million to revenue and a 1.8 million loss before income tax to the consolidated statement of income for the year.
The net assets, fair value adjustments and consideration for these acquisitions are summarised below all values shown as at their acquisition dates : Fair value Book value adjustment Total Million Million Million Financial assets 0.6 4.6 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents Financial liabilities Total 0.6 4.6 5.2 Consideration Cash consideration 7.1 Contingent consideration 8.2 Total consideration 15.3 Goodwill 10.1 Goodwill comprises of the value placed on the Asian distribution network being acquired and the local experience and knowledge that The Henley Group holds across these regulatory jurisdictions.
It is expected that the contingent consideration will be paid in full with no changes to the amount initially recognised, however, should the target number of advisers not be met, the contingent consideration will decrease on a pro-rata basis down to a value of 1.3 million.
The carrying amount of the contingent consideration at the statement of financial position date is 8.2 million.
Of the remaining balance to be settled, the Group expects that 3.4 million will be settled by 31 August 2015, 1.3 million settled by 30 June 2017 and 3.5 million settled by 28 February 2017.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 36.6 37.4 Diluted earnings per share 35.9 36.7 Underlying basic earnings per share 35.2 34.4 Underlying diluted earnings per share 34.6 33.8 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 The earnings per share EPS calculations are based on the following figures: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Earnings Profit after tax for both basic and diluted EPS 187.9 190.3 Million Million Weighted average number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic EPS 514.0 509.4 Adjustments for outstanding share options 9.0 9.2 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted EPS 523.0 518.6 11.
DIVIDENDS The following dividends have been paid by the Group: Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 Pence per Pence per Million Million Share Share Final dividend in respect of previous financial year 9.58 6.39 49.4 32.6 Interim dividend in respect of current financial year 8.93 6.38 46.1 32.7 Total dividends 18.51 12.77 95.5 65.3 The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 14.37 pence per share 2013: 9.58 pence.
This amounts to 74.6 million 2013: 49.4 million and will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, be paid on 15 May 2015 to those shareholders on the register as at 10 April 2015.
GOODWILL 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Balance at 1 January Additions 10.1 Accumulated impairment loss Balance at 31 December 10.1 Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment or when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over this value.
For the purposes of impairment testing, 100% of the goodwill is allocated to the appropriate cash generating unit: being Life.
The recoverable amount has been based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation applies an actuarially determined appraisal value, based on the embedded value of the business.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculation are growth in volume of new business at 15% and profitability in line with other existing international business.
More information regarding the assumptions used in the embedded value of the business can be found on pages 167 and 168.
It is considered that any reasonably possible levels of change in the key assumptions would not result in impairment of thegoodwill.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 126 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 13.
The amortisation of the acquired value of in-force business is charged within other operating expenses with the amortisation of computer software and customer list charged within administration expenses.
Amortisation profiles are reassessed annually.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 14.
PROPERTY & EQUIPMENT Fixtures & Fittings, Computers & Assets Held Office for Sale Equipment Land Total Million Million Million Cost At 1 January 2013 32.9 1.3 34.2 Additions 3.7 0.2 3.9 Revaluation 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 36.6 1.4 38.0 At 1 January 2014 36.6 1.4 38.0 Additions 4.0 4.0 Disposals At 31 December 2014 40.6 1.4 42.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 30.6 30.6 Charge for the year 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2013 32.2 32.2 At 1 January 2014 32.2 32.2 Charge for the year 1.9 1.9 At 31 December 2014 34.1 34.1 Net book value At 1 January 2013 2.3 1.3 3.6 At 31 December 2013 4.4 1.4 5.8 At 31 December 2014 6.5 1.4 7.9 Current 3.2 Non-current 4.7 7.9 During the year, a contract was signed to sell the land for 1.4 million.
As at 31 December 2014 the full conditions of the contract had not yet been met, therefore the land has been re-categorised as Assets Held for Sale and valued at the agreed sale price.
The agreed sale price is considered by the Group to be the fair value of the asset as at 31 December 2014.
The sale is expected to complete in early 2015.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Life business unrelieved expenses 65.3 73.7 Life business deferred income 18.4 23.7 Unit Trust business deferred income 46.1 48.2 Capital losses on liquidations 50.7 27.9 Other 12.3 8.3 Total deferred tax assets 192.8 181.8 Current 41.1 36.8 Non-current 151.7 145.0 192.8 181.8 Appropriate investment income, gains or profits are expected to arise against which the tax assets can be utilised.
In particular, future investment income from the existing assets will be sufficient to utilise the unrelieved expenses and capital gains crystallising in the unit linked funds will utilise the capital losses.
At the reporting date there were unrecognised deferred tax assets of 0.2 million 2013: nil in respect of losses in companies where appropriate profits are not considered probable in the forecast period.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 128 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 15.
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS continued During the year 16.7 million 2013: nil of deferred tax assets relating to capital losses have been utilised and a further 39.5 million 2013: 27.9 million has been recognised.
The Group, from time to time, reviews the possibility of removing companies from its Group structure that are no longer necessary for its business operations.
Depending on the history of the companies involved, it is possible that a capital loss may arise in the future.
Should such a loss crystallise, the Group will create a tax asset, as appropriate, the impact of which could potentially be material in future periods.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Balance at 1 January 732.7 597.6 Additions 254.2 194.1 Capitalised expenditure on existing properties 4.8 Disposals 46.1 67.3 Changes in fair value 85.8 8.3 Balance at 31 December 1,031.4 732.7 Investment property is held within unit linked funds and is considered current.
Investment property is valued monthly by external chartered surveyors in accordance with the guidance issued by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
The investment property valuation has been prepared using the market approach valuation technique using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable i. e. similar assets.
The rental income and direct operating expenses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of investment properties are set out below.
All expenses relate to property generating rental income.
Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Rental income 50.8 41.8 Direct operating expenses 6.2 5.1 At the year end contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property amounted to 2.2 million 2013: 0.1 million and to dispose of investment property amounted to nil million 2013: nil.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129 17.
ASSETS HELD TO COVER LINKED LIABILITIES AND THIRD PARTY HOLDINGS IN UNIT TRUSTS Included within the balance sheet are the following assets and liabilities which represent the net assets held to cover linked liabilities and those attributable to third party holdings in unit trusts UTMI.
The difference between these assets and liabilities and those shown in the consolidated balance sheet represents assets and liabilities held outside the unit linked funds and the UTMI.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Assets Investment property 1,031.4 732.7 Investments Equities 34,734.9 29,614.8 Fixed income securities 6,755.5 5,897.9 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,440.1 2,718.3 Currency forwards 38.3 97.7 Interest rate swaps 10.3 8.6 Collaterised mortgage obligations 53.4 Fixed Income options 12.4 Index options 18.2 Contracts for differences 27.7 29.4 Other derivatives 6.1 7.2 Other receivables 312.0 324.1 Other receivables eliminated on consolidation 94.8 151.9 Cash & cash equivalents 4,865.1 3,648.6 Total assets 50,400.2 43,231.2 Liabilities Financial liabilities Currency forwards 28.3 49.4 Interest rate swaps 5.1 11.8 Fixed Income options 9.7 Index options 8.1 Contracts for differences 18.9 24.8 Other derivatives 9.2 1.8 Other payables 183.7 241.6 Other payables eliminated on consolidation 217.9 216.2 Total liabilities 480.9 545.6 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities and third party holdings in unit trusts 49,919.3 42,685.6 Net assets held to cover linked liabilities and third party holdings in unit trusts are considered to have a maturity of up to one year since the corresponding unit liabilities are repayable and transferable on demand.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Investment contracts 38,851.2 33,717.5 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10,617.8 8,535.4 Insurance contract liabilities 384.3 395.0 Consolidation adjustments 66.0 37.7 Net liabilities held to cover linked liabilities and third party holdings in unit trusts 49,919.3 42,685.6 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 130 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 18.
OTHER RECEIVABLES 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 158.9 144.2 Prepayments 62.5 25.0 Advanced Partner remuneration 25.1 22.2 Unit linked funds and UTMI including outstanding security sales 312.0 324.1 Unit Trust dealing receivables 3.2 4.0 Renewal income 29.1 16.6 Miscellaneous 13.8 17.9 Total other receivables 604.6 554.0 Current 453.7 432.2 Non-current 150.9 121.8 604.6 554.0 The fair value of loans and receivables included in other receivables is not materially different from amortised cost.
St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are interest bearing linked to Bank of England base rate plus a margin, repayable on demand and secured against the future renewal income streams of that Partner.
The St. Jamess Place Partnership loans are shown net of a 2.9 million provision 2013: 3.8 million.
During the year 1.4 million of the provision was utilised 2013: 2.1 million addition whilst new provisions and adjustments to existing provisions increased the total by 0.5 million 2013: 0.8 million decrease.
Included within prepayments are operational readiness costs relating to the new administration platform being developed by our key outsourced back office administration provider.
Movement in renewal income: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million At 1 January 2014 16.6 Reclassification 5.9 3.0 Additions 9.5 16.7 Revaluation 2.9 3.1 Total renewal income 29.1 16.6 The current year reclassification relates to purchased SJP Partner renewal income previously disclosed within miscellaneous.
The prior year reclassification related to renewal income previously disclosed within intangible assets customer lists.
The key assumptions used for the assessment of the fair value of the renewal income are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Lapse rate SJP Partner renewal income 6% 10% 6% 10% Lapse rate Non SJP renewal income 14% 21% 15.0% Discount rate 5.0% 6.2% Future income streams are projected making use of persistency assumptions derived from the Groups experience of the business or, where insufficient data exists, from external industry experience.
These assumptions are reviewed on an annual basis.
These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each business combination classified within renewal income.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131 19.
CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Cash at bank 273.5 195.5 Cash held by third parties 0.8 1.6 Cash & cash equivalents held outside unit linked and unit trust funds 274.3 197.1 Balances held within unit linked and unit trust funds 4,865.1 3,648.6 Total cash & cash equivalents 5,139.4 3,845.7 All cash & cash equivalents are considered current.
INSURANCE RISK Insurance risk arises from inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk as we have never written any annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for The Group ceased writing new protection business in April 2011. a risk, or the impact of antiExperience is monitored regularly.
For most business the premium or selection.
deduction rates can be re-set.
The Group has fully reinsured the UK insurance risk.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of Protection is provided through reinsurance.
The Group has fully reinsured claims arising from a single the UK insurance risk.
Expense Administration costs exceed Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Retention Loss of future profit due to Retention of insurance contracts is closely monitored and unexpected more clients than anticipated experience is investigated.
Retention experience has continued in line with withdrawing their funds.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES 2014 2013 Million Million Balance at 1 January 466.4 424.0 Movement in unit linked liabilities 10.7 58.5 Movement in non-unit linked liabilities New business 0.2 0.3 Existing business 7.1 6.3 Other assumption changes 6.9 10.3 Experience variance 4.9 11.8 Total movement in non-unit linked liabilities 18.7 16.1 Balance at 31 December 474.4 466.4 Unit linked 384.3 395.0 Non-unit linked 90.1 71.4 474.4 466.4 Current 106.7 100.7 Non-current 367.7 365.7 474.4 466.4 During the year various contracts were reclassified from insurance to investment business.
Unit linked liabilities move as a function of net cash flows into policyholder funds and underlying investment performance of those funds.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 21.
INSURANCE CONTRACT LIABILITIES continued Assumptions used in the calculation of liabilities The principal assumptions used in the calculation of the liabilities are: Assumption Description Interest rate The valuation interest rate is calculated by reference to the long term gilt yield at 31 December 2014 and the specific gilts backing the liabilities.
The specific rates used are between 1.6% and 2.1% depending on the tax regime 2.5% and 3.3% at 31 December 2013.
Mortality Mortality is based on Company experience and is set at 72% of the TM F92 tables with an additional loading for smokers.
There has been no change since 2006.
Morbidity Morbidity is based on Company experience.
There has been no change during 2014.
Sample annual Critical Illness rates per for a male non-smoker are: Rate Age 2014 2013 25 0.000760 0.000760 35 0.001334 0.001334 45 0.003189 0.003189 Morbidity Morbidity is based on Company experience.
Sample annual Permanent Health Insurance rates per income benefit p. a. for a male non-smoker are: Rate Age 2014 2013 25 0.00548 0.00548 35 0.01447 0.01447 45 0.03138 0.03138 Expenses Contract liabilities are calculated allowing for the actual costs of administration of the business.
The assumption has been amended to allow for changes to the underlying administration costs.
Annual Cost Product 2014 2013 Protection business 34.98 35.69 Persistency Allowance is made for a prudent level of lapses within the calculation of the liabilities.
The rates have not changed in 2014.
Sample annual lapse rates are: Lapses 2013 & 2014 Year 1 Year 5 Year 10 Protection business 7% 9% 8% Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out the sensitivity of the profit on insurance business and net assets to changes in key assumptions.
The levels of sensitivity tested are consistent with those proposed in the EEV principles and reflect reasonably possible levels of change in the assumptions.
The analysis reflects the change in the variable assumption shown while all other variables assumptions are left unchanged.
In practice variables assumptions may change at the same time, as some may be correlated for example, an increase in interest rates may also result in an increase in expenses if the increase reflects higher inflation.
It should also be noted that in some instances sensitivities are non-linear.
The sensitivity % has been applied to proportion the assumption e. g. application of a 10% sensitivity to a withdrawal assumption of 8% will reduce it to 7.2%.
Change in Change in profit profit Change in Change in Change in before tax before tax net assets net assets Sensitivity analysis assumption 2014 2013 2014 2013 % Million Million Million Million Withdrawal rates -10% 1.1 1.1 0.9 1.0 Expense assumptions -10% 0.3 1.2 0.3 1.0 Mortality morbidity -5% 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 A change in interest rates will have no material impact on insurance profit or net assets.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133 22.
REINSURANCE ASSETS 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities Long term insurance contract liability 76.6 60.5 Claims outstanding 8.9 3.7 Reinsurance assets 85.5 64.2 Current 24.5 16.1 Non-current 61.0 48.1 85.5 64.2 During the prior year the Group fully reinsured its remaining UK protection book of business.
A reconciliation of the movement in the net reinsurance balance is set out below: 2014 2013 Million Million Reinsurance assets at 1 January 64.2 38.6 Reinsurance component of net change in claims provision 5.2 0.8 Reinsurance component of change in insurance liabilities 16.1 24.8 Reinsurance assets at 31 December 85.5 64.2 The overall impact of reinsurance on the profit for the year was a net charge of 11.8 million 2013:charge of 8.2 million.
OTHER PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Total provisions Million At 1 January 2014 9.7 Utilised released during the year 10.7 Additional provisions 12.4 At 31 December 2014 11.4 Current 7.2 Non-current 4.2 11.4 Total provisions relate to the cost of redress for mortgage endowment and other complaints.
The provision is based on estimates of the total number of complaints expected to be upheld, the estimated cost of redress and the expected timing of settlement.
As more fully set out in the summary of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 36 to 38, the Group could in the course of its business be subject to legal proceedings and or regulatory activity.
Should such an event arise, the Board would consider their best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation and, where appropriate and material, establish a provision.
While there can be no assurances that circumstances wont change, based upon information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there is any possible activity or event that could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
During the normal course of business, the Group may from time to time provide guarantees to Partners, clients or other third parties.
However, based upon the information currently available to them, the Directors do not believe there are any guarantees which would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, and so the fair value of any guarantees has been assessed as nil 2013:nil.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 134 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 24.
INVESTMENT CONTRACT BENEFITS 2014 2013 Million Million Balance at 1 January 33,717.5 27,147.4 Deposits 5,022.8 4,612.3 Withdrawals 2,176.8 2,091.7 Investment contract benefits principally representing investment expense income 3,234.4 5,449.4 Less: investment contract benefits attributable to fund deductions 520.8 460.7 Less: investment contract benefits attributable to third party holdings in unit trusts 425.9 939.2 Balance at 31 December 38,851.2 33,717.5 Current 2,913.8 2,528.8 Non-current 35,937.4 31,188.7 38,851.2 33,717.5 25.
BORROWINGS 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Bank loan 84.3 98.7 Current 29.7 4.7 Non-current 54.6 94.0 84.3 98.7 Bank loans include 750,000 2013: 750,000 from Bank of Scotland which is secured on property disclosed in Note 14 to the financial statements.
The Group also guarantees 93.9 million 2013: 103.6 million of direct loans from Bank of Scotland and 20.1 million 2013: 1.2 million of direct loans from Metro Bank plc to members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership drawn under total facilities of120.0 million 2013: 125.0 million and 40.0 million 2013: 20.0 million, respectively.
In the event of default of any individual Partner loan, the Group guarantees to repay the outstanding balance of that loan.
These Partners loans are secured against the future renewal income streams of that Partner.
The fair value of the outstanding bank loans and guarantees are not materially different from amortised cost.
DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million On deferred acquisition costs Life and pensions business 115.0 129.7 Unit trust business 35.8 38.3 On acquired value of in-force business 7.4 8.0 In respect of unit linked funds 354.7 314.1 Other 6.9 6.5 Total deferred tax liabilities 519.8 496.6 Current 76.5 61.7 Non-current 443.3 434.9 519.8 496.6 The Group, from time to time, reviews the possibility of removing companies from its Group structure that are no longer necessary for its business operations.
Depending on the history of the companies involved, it is possible that a capital gain may arise.
Should such a gain crystallise, the Group will create a tax liability.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135 27.
OTHER PAYABLES 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Accruals 93.3 74.2 Unit Trust dealing payable 88.5 46.8 Unit linked funds and UTMI including outstanding security purchases 183.7 241.6 Miscellaneous 134.2 76.8 Total other payables 499.7 439.4 Current 467.3 439.4 Non-current 32.4 499.7 439.4 Included within miscellaneous is a Contract Payment of 27.4 million 2013: nil which is non-interest bearing and repayable on a straight-line basis over the life of a 12 year service agreement commencing in 2017.
FINANCIAL RISK Risk management objectives and risk policies The Group seeks to manage risk through the operation of unit linked business whereby the policyholder bears the financial risk.
In addition, shareholder assets are invested in liquid investments with a strong credit rating.
Under IFRS 7, the Group is required to analyse their exposure to the following risks: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk Currency risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 136 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Risk Description Management Shareholders Loss of assets.
Shareholder funds are predominantly invested in AAA rated unitised money market assets funds and deposits with approved banks.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Investment Loss of value of assets.
These liabilities are matched by fixed interest securities with minimum AAA credit matching of ratings or UK Government Gilts: maximum counterparty limits for such holdings are non-linked again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
liabilities Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or Credit ratings of potential reinsurers must meet or exceed minimum specified counterparty unable to meet levels.
Consideration is also given to size, risk concentrations exposures and liabilities.
ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans Inability of Partners to repay Loans and advances are managed in line with the Groups secured lending policy.
Loans and advances loans or advances from are secured on the future renewal income stream expected from a Partners portfolio St. Jamess Place.
and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are regularly reviewed and assessed on a conservative basis.
Support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group is averse to liquidity risk and seeks to minimise this risk by not actively pursuing it except where necessary to support other objectives.
Risk Description Management Cash or A significant cash or expense The majority of free assets are invested in cash or cash equivalents and the cash position expense requirement needs to be met and forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
Also, the Group maintains a margin of free requirement at short notice.
assets in excess of the minimum required solvency capital within its regulated entities.
Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
However, the Group accepts the risk that the fall in equity or other asset markets will reduce the level of annual management charge income derived from policyholder assets and the risk of lower future profits.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 137 The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Client As a result of a reduction in equity This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups strategic focus on unit-linked liabilities values, the Group may be unable business, by not providing guarantees to clients on policy values and by the to meet client liabilities.
matching of assets and liabilities.
Tax In adverse market conditions, The tax position is monitored closely, in particular the size and sources of relevant when the Group is realising income streams.
investment losses rather than gains, the working of the I-E tax regime can lead to short-term capital inefficiencies, including the deferral of the cash benefit arising from tax relief on expenses.
Retention Loss of future profit on investment Retention of investment contracts is closely monitored and unexpected experience contracts due to more clients than variances are investigated.
Retention has remained consistently strong throughout anticipated withdrawing their 2014, despite the challenging economic environment and volatility, and fund funds, particularly as a result of surrender rates have remained low at c. 5%.
New Business Poor performance in the financial The benefits to clients of longer term equity investment as part of a diversified markets in absolute terms, and portfolio of assets is fundamental to our philosophy.
Advice and marketing become relative to inflation, leads to even more important when market values fall, and greater attention is required to existing and future clients rejecting support and give confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances.
investment in longer term assets.
This is taken account of by the Group in its activities.
Currency risk The Group is not subject to any significant currency risk since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The categories and carrying values of the financial assets and financial liabilities held in the Groups balance sheet are summarised in the table below: Financial Financial assets at liabilities at Financial fair value fair value liabilities through through measured at profit Available Loans and profit amortised 1 1 31 December 2014 and loss for sale receivables and loss cost Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties 1,031.4 1,031.4 Equities 34,734.9 34,734.9 Fixed income securities 6,838.8 6,838.8 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,961.7 2,961.7 Derivative financial instruments 166.4 166.4 2 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 158.9 158.9 Renewal income 29.1 29.1 Other 329.0 329.0 Total other receivables 29.1 487.9 517.0 Cash & cash equivalents 4,865.1 274.3 5,139.4 Total financial assets and investment properties 50,598.3 29.1 762.2 51,389.6 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 38,851.2 38,851.2 Borrowings 84.3 84.3 Derivative financial instruments 79.3 79.3 Other payables 499.7 499.7 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10,617.8 10,617.8 Total financial liabilities 49,548.3 584.0 50,132.3 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 138 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK continued Financial Financial assets at liabilities at Financial fair value fair value liabilities through through measured at profit Available Loans and profit amortised 1 1 31 December 2013 and loss for sale receivables and loss cost Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties 732.7 732.7 Equities 29,614.8 29,614.8 Fixed income securities 5,965.7 5,965.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3,244.3 3,244.3 Derivative financial instruments 142.9 142.9 2 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 144.2 144.2 Renewal income 16.6 16.6 Other 346.0 346.0 Total other receivables 16.6 490.2 506.8 Cash & cash equivalents 3,648.6 197.1 3,845.7 Total financial assets and investment properties 43,349.0 16.6 687.3 44,052.9 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 33,717.5 33,717.5 Borrowings 98.7 98.7 Derivative financial instruments 87.8 87.8 Other payables 439.4 439.4 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 8,535.4 8,535.4 Total financial liabilities 42,340.7 538.1 42,878.8 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 Other financial assets exclude prepayments and unearned commission from other receivables.
The carrying value of the unit linked investment contract liabilities may differ from the amount contractually required to pay at maturity.
Maturity values of the financial liabilities vary with future policyholder investment and withdrawals as well as investment return, coupled with the impact of capital losses in the funds.
The contractual value required to be paid to policyholders as at 31December 2014 would be 20.1 million lower than the investment contract benefits stated above.
Income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities The income, expense, gains and losses arising from financial assets and financial liabilities are summarised in the table below: Financial Financial assets at liabilities at Financial fair value fair value liabilities through through measured at profit Available Loans and profit amortised 1 1 Year Ended 31 December 2014 and loss for sale receivables and loss cost Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties 85.8 85.8 Unit linked assets 3,332.1 3,332.1 Fixed income securities 6.0 6.0 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2.7 2.7 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 6.0 6.0 Renewal income 2.9 2.9 Total other receivables 2.9 6.0 3.1 2 Cash & cash equivalents 1.2 1.2 Total financial assets and investment properties 3,426.6 2.9 7.2 3,430.9 3 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 2,287.6 2,287.6 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 425.9 425.9 Total financial liabilities 2,713.5 2,713.5 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 139 Financial Financial assets at liabilities at Financial fair value fair value liabilities through through measured at profit Available Loans and profit amortised 1 1 Year Ended 31 December 2013 and loss for sale receivables and loss cost Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment properties Unit linked assets 5,825.6 5,825.6 Fixed income securities 2.0 2.0 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2.0 2.0 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 7.5 7.5 Renewal income 3.1 3.1 Total other receivables 3.1 7.5 4.4 2 Cash & cash equivalents 0.9 0.9 Total financial assets and investment properties 5,825.6 3.1 8.4 5,830.9 3 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 4,049.5 4,049.5 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 939.2 939.2 Total financial liabilities 4,988.7 4,988.7 1 All financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are designated as such upon initial recognition.
2 The majority of the return from cash & cash equivalents is included within unit linked assets.
3 None of the change in the fair value of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss is attributable to changes in their credit risk.
Fair value estimation Financial assets and liabilities, which are held at fair value in the financial statements, are required to have disclosed their fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Total 31 December 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment property 1,031.4 1,031.4 Equities 34,734.9 34,734.9 Fixed income securities 6,838.8 6,838.8 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 2,931.8 29.9 2,961.7 Derivative financial instruments 166.4 166.4 Other receivables 29.1 29.1 Cash & cash equivalents 4,865.1 4,865.1 Total financial assets and investment properties 42,531.8 7,005.2 1,090.4 50,627.4 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 38,851.2 38,851.2 Derivative financial instruments 79.3 79.3 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 10,617.8 10,617.8 Total financial liabilities 10,617.8 38,930.5 49,548.3 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 140 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK continued 31 December 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total balance Million Million Million Million Financial Assets and Investment Properties Investment property 732.7 732.7 Equities 29,614.8 29,614.8 Fixed income securities 5,965.7 5,965.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 3,243.0 1.3 3,244.3 Derivative financial instruments 142.9 142.9 Other receivables 16.6 16.6 Cash & cash equivalents 3,648.6 3,648.6 Total financial assets and investment properties 36,506.4 6,108.6 750.6 43,365.6 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 33,717.5 33,717.5 Derivative financial instruments 87.8 87.8 Net asset value attributable to unit holders 8,535.4 8,535.4 Total financial liabilities 8,535.4 33,805.3 42,340.7 The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted bid prices at the reporting date, as described in the accounting policy o.
These instruments are included in Level 1.
Instruments included in Level 1 comprise primarily listed equity instruments.
The Group closely monitors the valuation of assets in markets that have become less liquid.
Determining whether a market is active requires the exercise of judgement and is determined based upon the facts and circumstances of the market for the instrument being measured.
Where it is determined that there is no active market, fair value is established using a valuation technique.
The techniques applied incorporate relevant information available and reflect appropriate adjustments for credit and liquidity risks.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
The relative weightings given to differing sources of information and the determination of non-observable inputs to valuation models can require the exercise of significant judgement.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
Note that all of the resulting fair value estimates are included in Level 2, except for certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS and investment properties as detailed below.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 2 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of observable prices for identical current arms length transactions.
Specific valuation techniques used to value Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include: The use of observable prices for recent arms length transactions.
Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow and historic lapse rates, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.
Transfers into and out of Level 3 portfolios Transfers out of Level 3 portfolios arise when inputs that could have a significant impact on the instruments valuation become market observable: conversely, transfers into the portfolios arise when consistent sources of data cease to be available.
Transfers in of certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS occur when asset valuations can no longer be obtained from an observable market price i. e. become illiquid, in liquidation, suspended etc.
The converse is true if an observable market price becomes available.
During 2014, 28.7 million relating to CIS and 5.9 million relating to a reclassification within other receivables were transferred into the Level 3 portfolio.
During 2013, IFRS 13 was adopted resulting in investment properties being included within the Level 3 portfolio, as the application of IFRS 13 was prospective investment properties were presented within transfers into Level 3.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 141 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 financial assets at fair value through the profit and loss: 2014 2013 Million Million Opening balance 750.6 1.6 Transfer into Level 3 34.6 597.8 Additions during the year 268.5 213.8 Disposed during the year 46.3 67.7 Gains recognised in the income statement 83.0 5.1 Closing balance 1,090.4 750.6 Total gains for the year included in the statement of comprehensive income for assets held at the end of the reporting year 83.0 4.8 Additions include 259.0 million of investment properties and 9.5 million of renewal income.
Gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are included within investment return for certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes and investment property, and within administration expenses for the renewal income.
Sensitivity of Level 3 valuations The valuation of certain equities and investments in Collective Investment Schemes CIS are based on the latest observable price available.
Whilst such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing the price applied to a reasonably possible alternative would not change the fair value significantly.
The valuation of renewal income is based on discounted cash flows and historic lapse rates.
The effect of applying reasonably possible alternative assumptions of a movement of 100bps on the discount rate and a 10% movement in the lapse rate would result in an unfavourable change in valuation of 2.8 million and a favourable change in valuation of 3.4 million, respectively.
The investment property valuation has been prepared using the market approach valuation technique using prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable i. e. similar assets, as such it is again believed that changing the price applied to a reasonably possible alternative would not change the fair value significantly.
Moreover any change in the value of investment property is matched by the associated movement in the policyholder liability and therefore would not impact on the shareholder net assets.
Credit risk The following table sets out the maximum credit risk exposure and ratings of financial and other assets which are neither past due or impaired and susceptible to credit risk: Unit linked funds and third party holdings in 1 31 December 2014 AAA AA A BBB Unrated unit trusts Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 2.4 80.9 6,755.5 6,838.8 Investment in Collective Investment 2 Schemes 517.3 4.3 2,440.1 2,961.7 Cash & cash equivalents 51.8 212.4 1.5 8.6 4,865.1 5,139.4 Amounts due from reinsurers Claims outstanding 8.9 8.9 Reinsurers share of long term insurance contract liabilities 76.6 76.6 Total amount due from reinsurers 85.5 85.5 Other receivables 46.1 312.0 358.1 Total 519.7 218.2 212.4 1.5 59.0 14,372.7 15,383.5 1 Credit risk relating to unit linked and unit trust funds is borne by the policyholder unit holder.
2 Investment of shareholder assets in Collective Investment Schemes refers to investment in unitised money market funds held for the longer term.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 142 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 29.
FINANCIAL RISK continued The table below sets out the comparative credit risk analysis as at 31 December 2013: Unit linked funds and third party holdings in 1 31 December 2013 AAA AA A BBB Unrated unit trusts Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Million Fixed income securities 67.7 5,898.0 5,965.7 Investment in Collective Investment 2 Schemes 522.3 3.7 2,718.3 3,244.3 Cash & cash equivalents 4.3 182.5 0.7 9.6 3,648.6 3,845.7 Amounts due from reinsurers Claims outstanding 3.7 3.7 Reinsurers share of long term insurance contract liabilities 60.5 60.5 Total amount due from reinsurers 64.2 64.2 Other receivables 38.5 324.1 362.6 Total 522.3 136.2 182.5 0.7 51.8 12,589.0 13,482.5 Financial assets that are either past due or impaired Loans to St. Jamess Place Partnership of 158.9 million 2013: 144.2 million are net of an impairment provision of 2.9 million 2013: 3.8 million see Note 18.
The factors considered in determining the impairment include default history, the nature or type of the Partner loan, exposure levels to individual Partners and whether the individual Partner is active or has left.
The movement in the impairment provision will reflect utilisation of the existing provision during the year, but the overall cost of impaired loans including new provisions recognised within administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income during the period was a charge of 0.9 million 2013: 0.2 million.
There are no other financial assets that are impaired, would originally have been past due or impaired but whose terms have been renegotiated, or are past due but not impaired.
Contractual maturity and liquidity analysis The following table sets out the contractual maturity analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2014: Total ex.
unit Unit linked linked funds and funds and third party Up to 1 1 5 Over 5 other unit holdings in 31 December 2014 year years years holders unit trusts Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Equities 34,734.9 34,734.9 Fixed income securities 27.4 11.7 44.2 83.3 6,755.5 6,838.8 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 517.3 517.3 2,444.4 2,961.7 Derivative financial instruments 166.4 166.4 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 54.0 94.4 10.5 158.9 158.9 Renewal income 29.1 29.1 29.1 Other 24.4 24.4 304.6 329.0 Total other receivables 107.5 94.4 10.5 212.4 304.6 517.0 Cash & cash equivalents 274.3 274.3 4,865.1 5,139.4 Total financial assets 926.5 106.1 54.7 1,087.3 49,270.9 50,358.2 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 38,851.2 38,851.2 Borrowings 29.7 50.4 4.2 84.3 84.3 Derivative financial instruments 79.3 79.3 Other payables 285.1 10.3 20.6 316.0 183.7 499.7 Total financial liabilities 314.8 60.7 24.8 400.3 39,114.2 39,514.5 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 143 The table below sets out comparative contractual maturity and liquidity analysis as at 31 December 2013: Total ex.
unit Unit linked linked funds and funds and third party Up to 1 1 5 Over 5 other unit holdings in 31 December 2013 year years years holders unit trusts Total Million Million Million Million Million Million Financial Assets Equities 29,614.8 29,614.8 Fixed income securities 16.8 12.0 38.9 67.7 5,898.0 5,965.7 Investment in Collective Investment Schemes 522.3 522.3 2,722.0 3,244.3 Derivative financial instruments 142.9 142.9 Other receivables St. Jamess Place Partnership loans 41.2 85.0 18.0 144.2 144.2 Renewal income 16.6 16.6 16.6 Other 21.9 21.9 324.1 346.0 Total other receivables 79.7 85.0 18.0 182.7 324.1 506.8 Cash & cash equivalents 197.1 197.1 3,648.6 3,845.7 Total financial assets 815.9 97.0 56.9 969.8 42,350.4 43,320.2 Financial Liabilities Investment contract benefits 33,717.5 33,717.5 Borrowings 4.7 89.0 5.0 98.7 98.7 Derivative financial instruments 87.8 87.8 Other payables 197.8 197.8 241.6 439.4 Total financial liabilities 202.5 89.0 5.0 296.5 34,046.9 34,343.4 Financial liabilities included under unit linked funds and net assets attributable to unit holders are deemed to have a maturity of up to one year since the corresponding unit linked liabilities are repayable and transferable on demand.
In practice the contractual maturities of the assets may be longer than one year, but the majority of assets held within the unit linked and unit trust funds are highly liquid and the Group also actively monitors fund liquidity.
Sensitivity analysis to market risks The majority of the Groups business is unit linked and the direct associated market risk is therefore borne by policyholders although there is a secondary impact as shareholder income is dependent upon the markets.
Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds primarily consist of fixed interest securities, units in money market funds, cash and cash equivalents, and other assets and liabilities.
The fixed interest securities are held to match non linked liabilities and the liability values move broadly in line with the matching asset values such that fair value interest rate risk is immaterial, although these is some residual risk due to imperfect matching.
Cash held in unitised money market funds and at bank is valued at par and is unaffected by movement in interest rates.
Other assets and liabilities are similarly unaffected by market movements.
As a result of these combined factors, the Groups financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds are not materially subject to market risk, and movements at the reporting date in interest rates and equity values have an immaterial impact on the Groups profit after tax and equity.
Future profits from annual management charges may be affected by movements in interest rates and equity values.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base in order to: protect policyholders and creditors interests, support the development of its business and create shareholder value, and meet regulatory requirements at all times.
Within the Group each subsidiary manages its own capital in the context of the Group Capital Plan.
Capital generated in excess of planned requirements is returned to the Groups parent, St. Jamess Place plc, normally by way of dividends.
The Group capital plan is monitored by the Finance Executive Committee on behalf of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
The Groups policy is for each Company to hold the higher of: the Companys internal assessment of the capital required: and the capital requirement of the relevant supervisory body plus a specified margin over this to absorb changes.
Generally, because of the nature of the business and the current regulatory rules, the higher requirement is that of the supervisory body plus the specified margin.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 144 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 30.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION continued The following entities are under supervisory regulation and have to maintain a minimum level of regulatory capital: Entity Regulatory Body and Jurisdiction St. Jamess Place UK plc PRA & FCA: Long-term insurance business St. Jamess Place International plc Central Bank of Ireland: Life insurance business St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited FCA: UCITS Management Company St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc FCA: Personal Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited FCA: Investment Firm St. Jamess Place Trust Company Jersey Limited Jersey Financial Services Commission St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PCIS Limited FCA: Securities and Futures BFS Financial Services Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm Lansdown Place Financial Management Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm PFPTime Limited FCA: Personal Investment Firm The Henley Group Limited Securities and Futures Commission Hong Kong : A Member of The Hong Kong Confederation of Insurance Brokers The Henley Group Pte Limited Monetary Authority Singapore: A Member of the Association of Financial Advisors The PRA regulatory requirement for St. Jamess Place UK plc, which makes up the majority of the Group capital requirement, includes the prescribed minimum solvency margin requirement the Capital Resources Requirement CRR and an assessment of the risks faced under the business, known as the Individual Capital Assessment.
The capital requirement is assessed and monitored by the Finance Executive Committee, a committee of the St. Jamess Place plc Board.
In 2016 this regime will be replaced with Solvency II.
The Group is well advanced in our preparations for the change in rules and expects to continue to be well capitalised.
The regulatory requirements for the remaining companies within the Group are assessed and monitored by the relevant Board.
There has been no material change in the Groups management of capital during the year and all regulated entities exceeded the minimum solvency requirements at the reporting date and during the year.
Capital composition The principal forms of capital are included in the following balances on the consolidated statement of financial position: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Share capital 77.9 77.3 Share premium 147.4 142.2 Treasury shares reserve 10.5 10.2 Miscellaneous reserves 2.3 2.3 Retained earnings 793.1 694.5 Shareholders equity 1,010.2 906.1 Non-controlling interests 0.1 Total equity 1,010.1 906.1 The above assets do not all qualify as regulatory capital.
Analysis of the assets which do qualify as regulatory capital is given in Section 2 of the Financial Review on page 26.
The Group and its individually regulated operations have complied with all externally and internally imposed capital requirements throughout the year.
SHARE CAPITAL Number of Share Ordinary Shares Capital Million At 1 January 2013 506,831,147 76.0 Exercise of options 8,384,836 1.3 At 31 December 2013 515,215,983 77.3 Exercise of options 4,231,408 0.6 At 31 December 2014 519,447,391 77.9 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 145 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 605 million 2013: 605 million, with a par value of 15pence per share 2013: 15 pence per share.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Included in the issued share capital are 3,760,585 2013: 3,338,458 shares held in the Treasury Shares Reserve with a nominal value of 0.6 million 2013: 0.5 million.
The number of shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for sale of shares, including terms and conditions, is included within Note 32.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group operated a number of different equity settled share-based payment arrangements, which are aggregated as follows: SAYE plan this is a standard HMRC approved scheme that is available to all employees where individuals may contribute up to 250 per month over three years to purchase shares at a price not less than 80% of the market price at the date of the invitation to participate.
Share incentive plan SIP this is an HMRC approved scheme which is available to all employees where individuals may invest up to an annual limit of 1,500 of pre-tax salary in SJP shares, to which the Company will add a further 10%.
If the shares are held for five years then they may be sold free of income tax or CGT.
Executive deferred bonus schemes under these plans the deferred element of the annual bonus is used to purchase shares at market value in the Company.
The shares are held by the Company until vesting after three years and, in addition to the performance targets, which apply prior to any entitlement being granted, further performance conditions may also apply on vesting.
Executive performance share plan the Remuneration Committee of the Group Board may make awards of performance shares to the Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Two-thirds of shares awarded to Directors are subject to an earnings growth condition of the Group and one-third of shares awarded to Directors are subject to a comparative total shareholder return TSR condition, both measured over a three year period.
Further information regarding the vesting conditions of the earnings growth and total shareholder return dependent portions of the award is given in the Remuneration Report on page 71.
Awards made to senior managers are largely only subject to the earnings growth condition of the Group.
Partner share option schemes these were offered to the Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership and vest over three to six years subject to satisfying personal sales related performance criteria.
The last award under these schemes was made in 2007.
Partner performance share plan a new scheme was launched in January 2008 whereby Partners are entitled to purchase shares in the future at nominal value 15p.
The number of shares the Partners are entitled to purchase will depend on their personal business volumes in the year of the award and validation over the following three years.
Share options outstanding under the various share option schemes, together with shares due under the deferred bonus schemes at 31 December 2014 amount to 11.9 million shares 2013: 14.3 million.
Of these, 3.5 million 2013: 5.3 million are under option to Partners of the St. Jamess Place Partnership, 6.9 million 2013: 7.5 million are under option to executives and senior management including 2.7 million 2013: 2.6 million under option to Directors as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 84 and 85 and 1.5million 2013: 1.5 million are under option through the SAYE and SIP schemes.
These are exercisable on a range of future dates.
The table below summarises the share-based payment awards made in 2013 and 2014: Share Executive Executive Incentive Deferred Performance SAYE Plan Bonus Share Plan Awards in 2013 Date of grant 25 March 26 March 21 March 21 March Number granted 249,691 4,998 435,177 1,335,003 Awards in 2014 Date of grant 25 March 26 March 26 March 26 March Number granted 281,243 4,639 555,428 889,357 Contractual life 3.5 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 years Vesting conditions 3 year saving 3 year saving 3 years 3 years period period service and service and achievement achievement of personal of earnings targets and TSR in some targets instances St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 146 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 32.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Financial assumptions underlying the calculation of fair value The fair value expense has been based on the fair value of the instruments granted, as calculated using appropriate derivative pricing models.
The table below shows the assumptions and models used to calculate the grant date fair value of each award: Share Executive Executive Incentive Deferred Performance SAYE Plan Bonus Share Plan Black Black Black Monte Valuation model Scholes Scholes Scholes Carlo Awards in 2013 2 4 Fair value pence 142.0 507.0 510.0 331.5 510.0 5 Share price pence 505.5 507.0 364.7 510.0 Exercise price pence 389.0 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 Expected volatility % pa 30 N A N A 30 3 Expected dividends % pa 2.1 N A N A N A Risk-free interest rate % pa 0.4 N A N A N A Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 18 to 107 Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20 Awards in 2014 2 4 Fair value pence 232.4 851.5 851.5 608.8 851.5 5 Share price pence 845.0 851.5 851.5 851.5 Exercise price pence 677.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1 Expected volatility % pa 29 N A N A 29 3 Expected dividends % pa 1.9 N A N A N A Risk-free interest rate % pa 1.2 N A N A N A Volatility of competitors % pa N A N A N A 20 to 62 Correlation with competitors % N A N A N A 20 Notes: 1 Expected volatility is based on an analysis of the Companys historic share price volatility over a period typically three or five years which is commensurate with the expected term of the options or the awards.
2 In 2013 and 2014, the vesting period for the SAYE plan was three years.
The vesting period may be extended by up to six months in order to catch up on missed contributions.
3 Dividends payable on the shares during the restricted period are paid out during the restricted period for the executive deferred bonus schemes and no dividend yield assumption is therefore required.
4 The awards made under the executive performance share plan are dependent upon earnings growth in the Company two-thirds of the award and a total shareholder return of a comparator group of companies one-third of the award.
This results in having two fair values for each of the awards made in the table above, the first being in relation to the comparator total shareholder return and the second relating to the Companys earnings growth.
5 Awards were made under the executive performance share plan on three separate occasions during 2014 2013: 2.
6 There were no awards made in 2013 or 2014 for the executive share option schemes or the sales management share option schemes.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 147 The average share price of the options that were exercised during the year was 766.1 pence 2013: 572.8 pence.
The SAYE plan options outstanding at 31 December 2014 had exercise prices of 296 pence 264,052 options, 275 pence 712,287 options, 389 pence 221,993 options, 677 pence 260,442 options and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years.
The options outstanding under the executive share option schemes at 31 December 2014 had exercise prices ranging from 242 pence to 246 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.2 years.
The options outstanding under the Partner share option schemes at 31 December 2014 had exercise prices ranging from 219 pence to 465 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years.
Share Incentive Plan nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 19,611 15,658 Granted 4,639 4,998 Forfeited 555 581 Exercised 626 464 Outstanding at end of year 23,069 19,611 Exercisable at end of year 10,005 Executive Performance Share Plan nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 5,168,598 5,270,375 Granted 889,357 1,335,003 Forfeited 225,315 369,221 Exercised 620,229 1,067,559 Outstanding at end of year 5,212,411 5,168,598 Exercisable at end of year 1,447,642 516,514 Partner Performance Share Plan 15 pence nominal share value option 15 pence per share on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number of Number of options options Outstanding at start of year 131,000 307,500 Granted Forfeited Exercised 35,500 176,500 Outstanding at end of year 95,500 131,000 Exercisable at end of year 65,000 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 148 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 32.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued Executive Deferred Bonus nil cost option no proceeds on exercise Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at start of year 2,210,882 2,923,687 Granted 555,428 435,177 Forfeited 15,678 19,598 Exercised 1,073,674 1,128,384 Outstanding at end of year 1,676,958 2,210,882 Exercisable at end of year Early exercise assumptions The following allowance has been made for the impact of early exercise once options have vested: 1.
SAYE plan all option holders are assumed to exercise half-way through the six month exercise window.
Executive, sales management and partner share option schemes it is assumed that 10% of option holders exercise their options each year irrespective of the level of the share price.
For the remainder it is assumed that one-half will exercise their options each year if the share price is at least 33% above the exercise price.
Allowance for performance conditions The executive performance share plan includes a market based performance condition based on the Companys total shareholder return relative to an index of comparator companies.
The impact of this performance condition has been modelled using Monte Carlo simulation techniques, which involve running many thousands of simulations of future share price movements for both the Company and the comparator index.
For the purpose of these simulations it is assumed that the share price of the Company and the comparator index are 20% 2013: 20% correlated and that the comparator index has volatilities ranging between 20% p. a. to 62%p.
The performance condition is based on the Companys performance relative to the comparator index over a three year period commencing on 1 January each year.
The fair value calculations for the awards that were made in 2014 therefore include an allowance for the actual performance of the Companys share price relative to the index over the period between 1 January 2014 and the various award dates.
Charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The table below sets out the charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards: Year Ended Year Ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Share-based payment expense 11.4 7.8 33.
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS At 31 December 2014, the Group had the following annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases in connection with the rental of office buildings and office equipment with varying lease end dates ranging from 2014 to 2029: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Within one year 1.2 0.5 Between two and five years 5.9 3.4 In more than five years 6.4 6.7 Total financial commitments 13.5 10.6 As at 31 December 2014, there was 0.1 million 2013: 0.2 million of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 149 34.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with St. Jamess Place unit trusts In respect of the non-consolidated St. Jamess Place managed unit trusts that are held as investments in the St. Jamess Place life and pension funds, there was income recognised of 8.0 million 2013: 16.1million income and the total value of transactions with those non-consolidated unit trusts was 47.4million 2013: 32.1 million.
Net management fees receivable from these unit trusts amounted to 20.7million 2013: 19.4 million.
The value of the investment into the non-consolidated unit trusts at 31 December 2014 was 130.7 million 2013: 92.2 million.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel have been defined as the Board of Directors and members of the Executive Board Committee.
The remuneration paid to the Board of Directors of St. Jamess Place, is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 80, in addition to the disclosure below.
The Remuneration Report also sets out transactions with the Directors under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the Performance Share Plan, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the SAYE Share Option Schemes, together with details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company.
The remuneration paid to key management personnel is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Million Million Aggregate emoluments 2.6 1.8 Bonuses 3.1 1.8 Pension contribution 0.4 0.3 Other benefits 0.3 0.2 6.4 4.1 The charge to the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the share-based payment awards made to the key management personnel of St. Jamess Place during 2014 was 3.6 million 2013: 2.8 million.
Related parties The total value of St. Jamess Place funds under management held by related parties of the Group as at 31December 2014 was 16.2 million 2013: 11.0 million.
Commission, advice fees and remuneration of 1,639,654 2013: 865,019 was paid, under normal commercial terms, to St. Jamess Place Partners and employees who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
The outstanding amount payable at 31 December 2014 was 123,100 2013: 105,440.
Outstanding at the year end were partner loans of 420,039 2013: 479,816 due from St. Jamess Place Partners who were related parties by virtue of being connected persons with key management personnel.
During the year nil 2013: nil was advanced and 90,302 2013: 86,759 was repaid by Partners who were related parties.
At the start of the year, related parties of key management personnel, held 177,029 2013 - 73,333 shares and options under various St. Jamess Place plc share option schemes.
During the year 28,993 2013 - Nil shares and options were granted, 1,757 2013 - Nil options lapsed, Nil 2013 - 45,000 options were exercised and 25,548 2013 - Nil shares were released.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 150 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 35.
INTERESTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES Unconsolidated Structured Entities The Group operates investment vehicles, such as unit trusts, primarily to match unit holder liabilities.
The investment vehicles are primarily financed by investments from unit holders.
Note 2 sets out the judgements inherent in determining when the Group controls, and therefore consolidates, the relevant investment vehicles.
The majority of the risk from a change in the value of the Groups investment in unconsolidated unit trusts is matched by a change in policyholder liabilities.
However, the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value of the investment with the balance being included within investments in Collective Investment Schemes.
At 31 December 2014, the total net asset value of unconsolidated unit trusts in which the Group held a beneficial interest was 2,235.0 million 2013: 1,789.3 million.
The following unit trusts are not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however the Group does act as the manager of these unit trusts.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Measurement Name of entity 2014 2013 relationship method 2014 2013 Million Million Manager of St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust 0.00 0.00 unit trust N A 620.0 393.4 Fair value through Manager of profit St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 8.10 6.61 unit trust orloss 1,615.0 1,395.9 2,235.0 1,789.3 As at 31 December 2014 the value of the Groups interests in the individual unconsolidated unit trusts were nil 2013: nil in St. Jamess Place Property Unit Trust and 130.8 million 2013: 92.3 million in St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust.
Associates The following unit trusts are not consolidated within the Group financial statements: however they do meet the criteria of an associate.
Net asset value as at % of ownership interest 31 December Nature of Measurement Name of entity 2014 2013 relationship method 2014 2013 Million Million Fair value through Manager of profit St. Jamess Place UK High Income Unit Trust 8.10 6.61 unit trust orloss 1,615.0 1,395.9 1,615.0 1,395.9 36.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Investment Holding Companies St. Jamess Place Investments plc St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group plc Life Assurance St. Jamess Place UK plc St. Jamess Place International plc incorporated in Ireland Unit Trust Management St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Limited Distribution St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc Management Services St. Jamess Place Management Services Limited IFA Acquisitions St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services Limited Asia Distribution St. Jamess Place International Distribution Limited Directly held by St. Jamess Place plc.
The Company also operates a branch in the Republic of Ireland.
The Company owns either directly or indirectly 100% of the voting ordinary equity share capital of the above-named subsidiaries, as such they have been appropriately consolidated.
A full list of subsidiaries is available on request from the registered office and will be submitted with the Companys Annual Return.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 151 All of these companies are registered in England and Wales and operate principally in the United Kingdom, except where otherwise stated.
Due to ongoing solvency requirements, there are restrictions on the amount of distributable reserves within the life assurance, unit trust and financial services operating companies of the Group which restricts their ability to transfer cash dividends to the Company.
The following subsidiaries of St. Jamess Place plc have taken advantage of the exemption from statutory audit granted by section 479A of the Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with section 479C, St. Jamess Place plc has therefore guaranteed all the outstanding liabilities as at 31 December 2014 of: Anglia Financial Limited 03835743 BFS Financial Services Limited 4609753 Chapman Associates Limited 3047530 Chapman Hunter Group Limited 6034452 Entellus Limited 01611224 EW Smith & Co Independent Financial Advisors Limited 4088394 G. M. B.
Financial Services Limited 04074782 Lansdown Place Financial Management Limited 2195886 Lansdown Place Group Holdings Limited 6390547 Lopsystem Limited 01503794 LP Auto Enrolment Solutions Limited 8257531 LP Wealth Management Limited 5458948 M. H. S Holdings Limited 00559995 PFPTime Limited 04047197 St. Jamess Place Acquisition Services Limited 7730835 St. Jamess Place Administration Limited 00740495 St. Jamess Place Client Solutions Limited 5487108 St. Jamess Place International Distribution Limited 08798683 St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited 08764231 St. Jamess Place Investment Trust Limited 00209445 St. Jamess Place Investments plc 01773177 St. Jamess Place Nominees Limited 08764214 St. Jamess Place Partnership Limited 00425649 St. Jamess Place Reassurance 2009 Limited 6718989 St. Jamess Properties Limited 01075927 SJP AESOP Trustees Limited 04089795 SJPC 2000 plc SCO13363 THG Wealth Management Limited 08077989 All Group companies have an accounting reference date of 31 December except for St. Jamess Place Investment Administration Limited 08764231 that has an accounting reference date of 30 November.
St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 152 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards continued 36.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES continued In addition, the Group financial statements consolidate the following unit trusts: St. Jamess Place Allshare Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Alternative Assets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Balanced Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Continental European Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Emerging Markets Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Ethical Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Far East Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Emerging Markets Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Global Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Greater European Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place High Octane Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Index Linked Gilts Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place International Equity Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Investment Grade Corporate Bond Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Managed Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Money Market Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Multi Asset Unit Trust St. Jamess Place North American Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Strategic Managed Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK and General Progressive Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK and International Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Absolute Return Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Growth Unit Trust St. Jamess Place UK Income Unit Trust St. Jamess Place Worldwide Opportunities Unit Trust All of these unit trusts are managed in the United Kingdom.
