Supplementary information Supplementary financial information Company statement of changes in equity translated to INR B.
Summary of significant differences between Functional and presentation currency For the year ended 31 December 2014 Indian GAAP and IFRS IFRS IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates Capital and The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended An entity may present its financial statements in any currency or Share capital 31 December 2014 with comparatives as at 31 December 2013 are Share premium redemption Merger Retained currencies.
If the presentation currency differs from the entitys 1 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting capital account reserve reserve earnings Total functional currency, it translates its results and financial position into `million `million `million `million `million `million Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC thepresentation currency.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
As at 1 January 2013 76,441 346,803 1,140 786,641 148,576 1,359,601 Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that profit for the year 135,276 135,276 IFRS differs in certain significant respects from Indian Generally statement of financial position.
Income statement items are translated Shares issued, net of expenses 317 1,203 1,520 Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
Such differences involve at the exchange rate at the date of transaction or at average rates.
Net own shares adjustment 7,853 7,853 methods for measuring the amounts shown in the financial statements Thefunctional currency is the currency of the primary economic Share option expense 15,073 15,073 of the Group, as well as additional disclosures required by Indian GAAP.
environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency Capitalised on scrip dividend 127 127 Set out below are descriptions of certain accounting differences ofthe Group is US dollars.
Dividends, net of scrip 130,970 130,970 between IFRS and Indian GAAP that could have a significant effect on Indian GAAP AS 11 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates As at 31 December 2013 76,884 347,880 1,140 786,641 160,102 1,372,647 profit attributable to parent company shareholders for the year ended There is no concept of functional or presentation currency.
Entities in 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 total parent company profit for the year 93,857 93,857 India have to prepare their financial statements in Indian rupees.
shareholders equity as at the same dates.
This section does not Shares issued, net of expenses 190 507 697 provide a comprehensive analysis of such differences.
In particular, A foreign currency transaction should be recorded, on initial recognition Net own shares adjustment 5,890 5,890 thisdescription considers only those Indian GAAP pronouncements in the reporting currency, by applying to the foreign currency amount, Share option expense 15,706 15,706 forwhich adoption or application is required in financial statements the exchange rate between the reporting currency and the foreign Capitalised on scrip dividend 1,203 1,203 foryears ended on or prior to 31 December 2014.
The Group has not currency at the date of the transaction.
Dividends, net of scrip 91,894 91,894 quantied the effect of differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP, At each balance sheet date: As at 31 December 2014 78,278 347,183 1,140 786,641 171,882 1,385,123 norprepared consolidated financial statements under Indian GAAP, norundertaken a reconciliation of IFRS and Indian GAAP financial a Foreign currency monetary items should be reported using the 1.
Includes capital reserve of `317 million and capital redemption reserve of `823 million statements.
Had the Group undertaken any such quantication or closing rate preparation or reconciliation, other potentially significant accounting b Non-monetary items that are carried in terms of historical cost and disclosure differences may have come to its attention which are denominated in a foreign currency should be reported using the not identied below.
Accordingly, the Group does not provide any exchange rate at the date of the transaction assurance that the differences identied below represent all the principal differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP relating to the c Non-monetary items that are carried at fair value or other similar Group.
Furthermore, no attempt has been made to identify future valuation denominated in a foreign currency should be reported using differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP.
Finally, no attempt has the exchange rates that existed when the values were determined been made to identify all differences between IFRS and Indian GAAP Consolidation that may affect the financial statements as a result of transaction or events that may occur in the future.
IFRS IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Entities are consolidated when the Group controls an entity.
The Group In making an investment decision, potential investors should consult controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns their own professional advisors for an understanding of the differences from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those between IFRS and Indian GAAP and how those differences may have returns through its power over the investee.
This includes entities where affected the financial results of the Group.
The summary does not control is not derived through voting rights such as structured entities.
purport to be complete and is subject and qualied in its entirety by reference to the pronouncements of the International Accounting Indian GAAP AS 21 Consolidated Financial Statements Standards Board IASB, together with the pronouncements of the Guidance is based on the power through the ability to govern the Indian accounting profession.
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets while not taking into consideration potential voting rights.
Changes in accounting policy Indian GAAP Consolidation of Structured Entities IFRS International Accounting Standards IAS 8 Accounting Policies, No specic guidance.
Changes in Accounting Estimates andErrors Changes in accounting policy are applied retrospectively.
Comparatives Business combinations are restated and the effect of period s not presented is adjusted IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations against opening retained earnings of the earliest year presented.
All business combinations are treated as acquisitions.
Assets, liabilities Policychanges made on the adoption of a new standard are made and contingent liabilities acquired are measured at their fair values.
inaccordance with that standards transitional provisions.
Pooling of interest method is prohibited.
Indian GAAP AS 5 Net profit or Loss for the period, Prior Period Items For acquisitions occurring on or after 1 January 2004, IFRS 3, Business and Changes in Accounting Policies Combinations IFRS 3 requires that, when assessing the value of the The cumulative amount of the change is included in the income assets of an acquired entity, certain identiable intangible assets must statement for the period in which the change is made except as be recognised and if considered to have a nite life, amortised through specified in certain standards transitional provision where the change the income statement over an appropriate period.
As the Group has not during the transition period resulting from adoption of the standard has applied IFRS 3, or its predecessor IAS 22, to transactions that occurred to be adjusted against opening retained earnings and the impact before 1 January 2004, no intangible assets, other than goodwill, were disclosed.
recognised on acquisitions prior to that date.
Where a change in accounting policy has a material effect in the current Adjustments to provisional fair values are permitted provided those period, the amount by which any item in the financial statements is adjustments are made within 12 months from the date of acquisition, affected by such change should also be disclosed to the extent with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill.
Where such an amount is not ascertainable this fact ofrespective fair values of net assets acquired, any excess of should be indicated.
acquirersinterest in the net fair values of acquirers identiable assetsis recognised immediately in the income statement.
320 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 321 Supplementary information Supplementary financial information B.
Summary of significant differences between amortised over their useful life, generally not exceeding 10 years.
Summary of significant differences between There is no specic guidance on hedge accounting since Accounting Indian GAAP and IFRS continued recoverable amount of an intangible asset that is not available for use Indian GAAP and IFRS continued Standard 30 is not mandatory.
However, requirements of AS 30 with or is being amortised over a period exceeding 10 years should be respect to hedge accounting are largely similar to that of IAS 39.
For Where less than 100 per cent of an entity is acquired, non-controlling A financial asset or financial liability, other than one held for trading, can reviewed at least at each financial year-end even if there is no indication banks, there are guidelines prescribed by RBI on measurement and interests are stated at their proportion of the fair value of the identiable be designated as being held at fair value through profit or loss if it that the asset is impaired.
accounting of IRS and FRA entered onto for hedging purposes.
net assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
meets the criteria set out below: Property, plant and equipment Impairment of financial assets O Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting for Amalgamations The designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or Treatment of a business combination depends on whether the acquired IFRS IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, IAS 23 Borrowing recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement entity is held as a subsidiary, whether it is an amalgamation or whether Fixed assets are recorded at cost or revalued amounts.
Under the assets or liabilities on a different basis At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made as to whether it is an acquisition of a business.
For an entity acquired and held as transition rules of IFRS 1, the Group elected to freeze the value of all its there is any objective evidence of impairment.
A financial asset is O A group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its asubsidiary, the business combination is accounted for as an properties held for its own use at their 1 January 2004 valuations, their impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is performance evaluated on a fair value basis acquisition.
The assets and liabilities acquired are incorporated at deemed cost under IFRS.
They will not be revalued in the future.
Assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such Foreign exchange gains or losses relating to the procurement of Assets held at amortised cost derivatives are not recognised separately For an amalgamation of an entity, either pooling of interests or property, plant and equipment, under very restrictive conditions, can If objective evidence of impairment exists, an assessment is made to acquisition accounting may be used.
The assets and liabilities be capitalised as part of the asset.
Depreciation is recorded over the The designation of a financial instrument as held at fair value through determine what, if any, impairment loss should be recognised.
The amalgamated are incorporated at their existing carrying amounts or, assets estimated useful life.
The residual value and the useful life of an profit or loss is irrevocable in respect of the financial instruments to impairment loss is the difference between the assets carrying amount alternatively, if acquisition accounting is adopted, the consideration asset and the depreciation method shall be reviewed at least at each which it relates.
Subsequent to initial recognition, instruments cannot and its estimated recoverable amount.
canbe allocated to individual identiable assets which may include financial year-end.
The Group has the option to capitalise borrowing beclassied into or out of this category.
The recoverable amount is determined based on the present value intangible assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair values.
costs incurred during the period that the asset is getting ready for its Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets resulting ofexpected future cash ows, discounted at the instruments original intended use.
Adjustments to the value of acquired or amalgamated balances are not from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are included in the effective interest rate, either individually or collectively.
Individually permitted after initial recognition.
Any excess of acquirers interest in Indian GAAP AS 10 Fixed Assets, AS 16 Borrowing Cost and AS 6 income statement as exchange differences.
Foreign currency exchange assessed assets for which there is no objective evidence of impairment the net fair values of acquirers identiable assets is recognised as Depreciation Accounting movements for available-for-sale equity securities are recognised in are collectively assessed for impairment.
capital reserve, which is neither amortised nor available for distribution Fixed assets are recorded at historical costs or revalued amounts.
However, in case of an amalgamation accounted Relevant borrowing costs are capitalised if certain criteria in AS 16 are Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments If objective evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss under the purchase method, the fair value of intangible assets with no met.
Depreciation is recorded over the assets useful life.
Schedule II AS 13 requires investments to be categorised as follows: measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the active market is reduced to the extent of capital reserve, if any, arising Part C of the Companies Act 2013 and Banking Regulations prescribe current fair value, less any previously recognised impairment is O on the amalgamation.
Minority interests arising on the acquisition of minimum rates of depreciation and these are typically used as the basis Current investments, which are those readily realisable and intended removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
asubsidiary are recognised at their share of the historical book value.
to be held for less than one year, are carried at the lower of cost and fair value, with changes in fair value taken directly to profit or loss Market recoveries leading to a reversal of an impairment provision Goodwill Recognition and measurement of financial instruments  debt securities are recognised in the income O Long-term investments, which are those investments not classied IFRS IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 38 Intangible Assets IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement statement.
Impairment losses for equity instruments classied as as current, are carried at cost unless there is a permanent diminution IFRS 3 requires that goodwill arising on all acquisitions by the Group IAS 39 requires all financial instruments to be initially measured at their available-for-sale are not permitted to be reversed through profit in value, in which case a provision for diminution is required to be and associated undertakings is capitalised but not amortised and is fair value, which is usually to be the transaction price.
made by the entity subject to an annual review for impairment.
Under the transitional where the initial fair value is based on a valuation model that uses Indian GAAP AS 13 Investments provisions of IFRS 1, the Group has not applied IFRS 3, or its inputs that are not observable in the market, the difference between the For investments, Reserve Bank of India RBI outlines similar Long-term investments are written down when there is a decline in fair predecessor IAS 22, to transactions that occurred before 1 January transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised classications to IFRS, but the classication criteria and measurement value that is deemed to be other than temporary.
Impairments may 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Accordingly, goodwill previously immediately in the income statement but is amortised to the income requirements differ from those set out in IFRS.
Financial liabilities are bereversed through the income statement in subsequent periods written off to reserves, as permitted under UK GAAP until the statement until the inputs become observable, the transaction matures usually carried at cost.
There is no ability to designate instruments at iftheinvestment rises in value, or the reasons for the impairment no implementation of IFRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets in 1998, or is terminated.
AS 30 provides guidance on classication criteria and longer exist.
hasnot been reinstated nor will it be written back on disposal.
However, this is not mandatory.
At the time of initial recognition, IAS 39 requires all financial assets to be Amortisation of goodwill that has been charged up to 31 December In accordance with RBI regulations, in respect of available-for-sale classied as either: Derivatives 2003 has not been reversed and the deemed carrying value of the AFS investments, impairments are required to be reversed through O goodwill on transition to IFRS is equal to the net book value as at Held at fair value through profit or loss as a trading instrument or as IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Investment Reserve Account equity reserve if the investment rises in 31 December 2003.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
designated by management, with realised and unrealised gains or IAS 39 requires that all derivatives be recognised on balance sheet at value or the reasons for the impairment no longer exist.
Anyimpairment losses recognised may not be reversed in subsequent losses reected in profit or loss fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not hedges For loans and advances, the RBI regulations additionally require banks accounting periods.
are reported in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of O Available-for-sale at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses to hold provisions in respect of standard assets and for specic country derivatives that are designated as hedges are either offset against the Indian GAAP AS 14 Accounting for Amalgamations and AS 26 reected in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income risk exposures.
change in fair value of the hedged asset or liability through earnings, Intangible Assets statement when the asset is sold or is impaired orrecognised directly in equity until the hedged item is recognised in Derecognition of financial assets Goodwill arising for amalgamations is capitalised and amortised O Held-to-maturity at amortised cost, where there is the intent and the earnings, depending on the nature of the hedge.
The ineffective portion overuseful life not exceeding five years, unless a longer period can IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement ability to hold them to maturity of the hedges change in fair value is immediately recognised in bejustied.
For goodwill arising on acquisition of a subsidiary or a A financial asset is fide-recognised if substantially all the risks and earnings.
A derivative may only be classied as a hedge if an entity O business, there is no specic guidance.
In practice there is either As loans and receivables at amortised cost rewards of ownership have been transferred.
If substantially all the risks meets stringent qualifying criteria in respect of documentation and noamortisation or amortisation not exceeding 10 years.
Goodwill is and rewards have not been transferred, the asset will continue to be At the time of initial recognition, IAS 39 requires all financial liabilities to hedge effectiveness.
reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
recognised to the extent of any continuing involvement.
be classied as either: Impairment losses recognised may be reversed under exceptional IAS 39 requires the separation of derivatives embedded in a financial Indian GAAP RBI Guidelines on Securitisation of Standard Assets O circumstances only in subsequent accounting periods through the Held at fair value through profit or loss as a trading instrument or as instrument if it is not deemed to be closely related to the economic There is limited guidance on derecognition of financial assets.
designated by management, with realised and unrealised gains or characteristics of the underlying host instrument.
Securitised financial assets can only be derecognised if the originator losses reected in profit or loss Acquired and internally generated intangible assets Indian GAAP has surrendered control over the assets.
Control is not surrendered O At amortised cost Foreign exchange contracts held for trading or speculative purposes where the securitised assets are not beyond the reach of the creditors IFRS IAS 38 Intangible Assets are carried at fair value, with gains and losses recognised in the income of the originator or where the transferee does not have the right to Intangible assets are recognised if the specic criteria are met.
In the absence of specic guidance, equity options are pledge, sell, transfer or exchange the securitised asset for its own with a nite useful life are amortised on a systematic basis over their carried at the lower of cost or market value.
benefit, or where there is an option that entitles the originator to useful life.
An asset with an indefinite useful life and which is not yet repurchase the financial assets transferred under a securitisation available for use should be tested for impairment annually.
Indian GAAP AS 26 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are capitalised if specic criteria are met and are 322 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 323 Supplementary information Supplementary financial information B.
Summary of significant differences between The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs Dividends Indian GAAP and IFRS continued are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when IFRS IAS 10 Events After Balance Sheet date the options are exercised.
Liabilities and equity Dividends to holders of equity instruments, when proposed or declared Cash-settled awards must be revalued at each balance sheet date after the balance sheet date, should not be recognised as a liability on IFRS IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement onan intrinsic value basis being the difference between the market the balance sheet date.
A company, however, is required to disclose A financial instrument is classied as a liability where there is a price of the share at the measurement date and the exercise price the amount of dividends that were proposed or declared after the contractual obligation to deliver either cash or another financial asset withany changes in fair value charged or credited to staff costs in balance sheet date but before the financial statements were authorised tothe holder of that instrument, regardless of the manner in which the theincome statement.
contractual obligation will be settled.
Preference shares, which carry amandatory coupon or are redeemable on a specic date or at the Deferred tax is recognised based on the intrinsic value of the award Indian GAAP option of the shareholder, are classied as financial liabilities and are and is recorded in the income statement if the tax deduction is less Dividends are reected in the financial statements of the year to which presented in other borrowed funds.
The dividends on these preference than or equal to the cumulative share-based compensation expense they relate, even if proposed or approved after the year end.
shares are recognised in the income statement as interest expense on orequity if the tax deduction exceeds the cumulative expense.
an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method.
Indian GAAP Indian GAAP Entities may either follow the intrinsic value method or the fair value Classication is based on the legal form rather than substance.
method for determining the costs of benets arising from share-based compensation plans.
Although the fair value approach is Provisions for liabilities and charges recommended, entities may use the intrinsic value method and IFRS IAS 37 Provisions, Contingents Liabilities and Contingent Assets providefair value disclosures.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate at the Deferred tax is not recognised as it is not considered to represent a balance sheet date of the expenditure required to settle the obligation, timing difference.
discounted using a pre-tax market discount rate if the effect is material.
Entities are also permitted the option of recognising the related Indian GAAP AS 29 Provisions, Contingents Liabilities and compensation cost over the service period for the entire award that is, ContingentAssets over the service period of the last separately vesting portion of the Provisions are recognised and measured on a similar basis to IFRS, award, provided that the amount of compensation cost recognised at except that there is no requirement for discounting the provision or any date at least equals the fair value of the vested portion of the award liability.
Pension obligations Deferred Taxation IFRS IAS 19 Employee Benets IFRS IAS 12 Income Taxes The discount rate to be used for determining dened benefit obligations Deferred tax is determined based on temporary differences, being the is established by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date difference between the carrying amount and tax base of assets and on high-quality corporate bonds of a currency and term consistent with liabilities, subject to certain exceptions.
the currency and term of the post-employment benefit obligations.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in Other comprehensive Deferred tax assets are recognised if it is probable more likely than not income retained earnings.
that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to utilise deferred tax assets.
Under the transitional provisions of IFRS 1, First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 1 and in accordance Indian GAAP AS 22 Accounting for Taxes on Income with IAS 19, the Group elected to record all actuarial gains and losses Deferred tax is determined based on timing differences, being the on the pension surplus or deficit in the year in which they occur within difference between accounting income and taxable income for a period the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
that is capable of reversal in one or more subsequent periods.
Indian GAAP AS 15 Employee Benets Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future The discount rate to be used for determining dened benefit obligations taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences is established by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date can be utilised.
The expected return on plan assets is based Interest income and expense onmarket expectation for the returns over the entire life of the related obligation.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised immediately in the IFRS IAS 18 Revenue statement of income.
Interest income and expense are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
The effective interest rate is the rate Share-based compensation that discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the IFRS IFRS 2 Share-based payments expected life of the financial instrument.
When calculating the effective IFRS 2 Share-based payment requires that all share-based payments interest rate, the Group estimates cash ows considering all contractual are accounted for using a fair value method.
The fair value of the terms of the financial instrument but does not consider future credit employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is losses.
The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received recognised as an expense.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective to be expensed over the vesting period must be determined by interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
reference to the fair value of the options granted determined using an Indian GAAP AS 9 Revenue Recognition option pricing model, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting In the absence of a specic effective interest rate requirement, conditions for example, profitability and growth targets.
Non-market premiums and discounts are usually amortised on a straight-line basis vesting conditions must be included in assumptions about the number over the term of the instrument.
of options that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
