Directors report Directors remuneration report 2014 report on remuneration The long-term performance conditions for the 2014 TVC awards How much is being awarded in TVC this year?
Details on the long-term performance conditions for awards to be made in 2015 in respect of 2014 performance 2014 total variable compensation Given the financial performance for 2014 and the refreshed financial priorities for the next three years, the Committee determined Determining 2014 TVC itwould be appropriate to review the target levels of performance for the performance share awards alongside setting the targets The Committee views the determination of TVC in a holistic way, reviewing a number of factors both financial and strategic for the new underpin share awards.
todetermine an appropriate Group TVC.
The current intention of the Committee is that the measures for awards in 2016 will be similar to those awards to be granted in An automatic risk adjustment is applied in determining Group TVC.
This is calculated by using a risk-adjusted, profit-based funding 2015.
However, the Committee will review the measures and targets again in advance of making awards in 2016 in respect of 2015 mechanism known as risk capital adjusted profit or RCAP.
The Committee then quanties other adjustments for specic risk and performance, including an assessment against continued alignment with the Groups priorities.
control matters that are not already taken into account through automatic risk adjustment.
In 2014, this included consideration of the cost of the settlements with the US authorities, in addition to the automatic risk adjustment.
Performance share awards The Committee also exercises its judgement to ensure that the overall payout appropriately balances Group performance, and any For awards in respect of 2014 performance, the Committee concluded that the current performance measures earnings per share other factors, such as return to investors, the strength of the Groups forward-looking capital position, performance relative to peers, EPS growth, RoRWA and relative total shareholder return TSR continue to provide a balanced set of metrics with an equal investors views, political sentiment on compensation, and regulatory requirements.
weighting between performance, investor interests and prudent risk-taking.
There will therefore be no change to the measures orweightings.
In recent years the Committee has progressively reduced the share of profits paid in TVC.
Between 2010 and 2013 Group TVC fell20 per cent, compared to a reduction in profit of less than 1 per cent.
Competitors in the Groups markets have continued The target levels for performance share awards are designed to be challenging but realistic.
The Committees starting point for topay aggressively for scarce talent.
This has created significant competitive pressures in some of the Groups key markets: determining target levels was to review the financial plan and the Groups priorities.
The Committee then considered the ability theannualised voluntary attrition rate continued to be high in 2014, particularly at more junior levels.
The Committee is mindful ofany targets to incentivise executive directors to get back to improved returns.
Clearly, in the context of current performance, ofthe external sentiment in some markets on bankers pay, and is particularly conscious of the Groups disappointing financial combined with the impact of risk-weighted asset RWA model changes, the starting point for returns is now lower.
performance, but it operates ina competitive global marketplace for talent.
This requires the Committee to make, and justify, The RoRWA target has therefore been changed to ensure it remains stretching yet realistic over the next three years.
In contrast, difficult decisions to ensure the Group attracts and retains the talent needed across its footprint of Asia, Africa and the Middle East the EPS growth target has been increased at the top end of the performance target range, reecting the reduced EPS in 2014. to deliver its business strategy.
Nochange to the TSR targets will be made for the forthcoming year.
The final decision made by the Committee was that Group TVC for 2014 should be $1,098 million, 9.1 per cent lower than in 2013, The adjustment to the RoRWA targets also reects changes in regulation regarding RWA measurement and alterations to capital as shown below.
The Committee concluded that a lower pool would present a material risk to the ability of the Group to make requirements, which have made the existing RoRWA targets no longer realistic over the time horizon of performance share awards.
The 2014 Group TVC is 27.6 per cent lower than in 2010, while over the same period dividends However, to acknowledge shareholder feedback, there will be a reduction in the level of vesting for threshold performance, from paid grew by 51 per cent.
Between 2010 and 2014 underlying profits fell by 15.0 per cent.
Total staff costs as a percentage of 30 to 25 per cent across each of the three performance measures.
income is 37.2 per cent in 2014, higher than in 2013 but lower than 37.6 per cent in 2011.
2014 2013 Performance share awards will vest on the fifth anniversary of grant, subject to meeting the following performance conditions, $million $million measured after the third anniversary of award: Non-deferred awards 897 955 Deferred awards and share awards subject to long-term performance conditions 201 253 Performance measure Weighting Threshold 25% vesting Maximum vesting 100% vesting Total TVC pool 1,098 1,208 EPS growth One-third 15% 35% or higher over 3 years As always, the Group rewards businesses and markets that perform more strongly year-on-year.
Differentiation remains critical so the Group can reward those who have contributed signicantly.
Performance is assessed on both what the Group achieves and RoRWA One-third 1.2% 1.4% or higher how it is achieved.
The Group continues to focus on culture, conduct and values, with performance decision-making appropriately average over 3 years considering risk and control issues, behaviours and effective supervision.
Regulation in relation to pay continues to evolve rapidly, and the Group will comply with the rules and remain supportive of the underlying sentiment behind them.
Relative TSR against One-third Median Upper quartile or higher peergroup see page 189 Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points for EPS growth, RoRWA and TSR.
Underpin share awards In total, 25 per cent of a TVC award will be delivered as an underpin share award.
These awards will vest on either the third or fifth anniversary of the award, subject to sustained financial performance between the date of award and the third anniversary of award.
Underpin share awards are intended to provide investors with assurance that should a certain level of performance not be met, then the relevant awards will not vest.
The underpin conditions are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Vesting EPS growth One-half The portion of the award subject to the EPS growth underpin will be forfeited over 3 years if EPS growth after three years has not equalled or exceeded 10% RoRWA One-half The portion of the award subject to the RoRWA underpin will be forfeited average over 3years ifthe average RoRWA after three years has not equalled or exceeded 1.1% Notes to above tables on performance share awards and underpin share awards 1.
Earnings per share growth is measured on a normalised basis 2.
RoRWA is calculated by reference to the three-year average normalised post-tax earnings over the four-year average of risk-weighted assets.
RoRWA is dened based onregulatory denitions and modelling assumptions as at 1 January 2015.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance 1.
The US authorities comprise the New York Department of Financial Services NYDFS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FED, the New York County period any changes in regulatory risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period District Attorneys Ofce DANY, theUnited States Department of Justice DOJ and the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC 180 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 181
