Financial statements and notes Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued a Statement of compliance d Fiduciary activities Classication and measurement i Consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of Standard The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary capacities Financial assets are classied on the basis of the business model within Subsidiaries Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, which they are held, and their contractual cash ow characteristics.
The Subsidiaries are all entities, including structured entities, which the as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and standard also introduces a fair value through other comprehensive Group controls.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or and jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, income FVOCI measurement category for particular simple debt has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and present information about the Company as a separate entity and not as they are not assets and income of the Group.
The requirements for the classication and measurement has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the about its group.
of financial liabilities were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39, e New accounting standards adopted by the Group investee.
The assessment of power is based on the Groups practical however, the requirements relating to the fair value option for financial Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial On 1 January 2014, the Group adopted the following amendments to ability to direct the relevant activities of the entity unilaterally for the liabilities were changed to address own credit risk and, in particular, the statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in standards and new interpretation.
Groups own benefit and is subject to reassessment if and when one or presentation of gains and losses within other comprehensive income.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and more of the elements of control change.
Subsidiaries are fully O Amendment to International Accounting Standards IAS 32 Financial IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by Impairment consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial the European Union EU.
EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS IFRS 9 incorporates an expected loss approach for recognising credit control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases, Liabilities claries the requirements for offsetting financial assets and published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB if a losses.
Under this approach expected credit losses or lifetime expected and where any interest in the subsidiary remains, this is remeasured to liabilities and addresses inconsistencies noted in current practice standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
credit losses for all amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments would its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32.
These amendments be recognised depending on whether or not significant credit income statement.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the were applied retrospectively and did not have a material impact on deterioration has occurred since origination or acquisition.
Group financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the these consolidated financial statements significant deterioration has not occurred, a provision equating to 12 exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Nonmonths of expected credit losses would be recognised whereas if there individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that relationship between the Group and the structured entity indicates the Financial Assets removes the requirement to disclose the recoverable is a significant deterioration in credit risk, lifetime expected credit losses form a part of these approved financial statements.
Groups power over the structured entity.
Details of the Groups use of amount of a cash-generating unit CGU to which goodwill or other would be recognised.
structured entities are set out in note 24.
The following parts of the Risk and Capital review form part of these intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated when Hedge accounting financial statements: there has been no impairment or reversal of impairment of the related Associates and joint arrangements The general hedge accounting model aligns hedge accounting more CGU.
Joint arrangements are where two or more parties either have rights to a Regulatory compliance, review, request for information and closely with risk management and establish a more principle-based the assets, and obligations of the joint arrangement joint operations or investigations: and Risk of fraud and other criminal acts on pages 103 Furthermore, the amendments introduce additional disclosure approach to hedge accounting.
Dynamic hedging of open portfolios is have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement joint venture.
The and 104: requirements applicable to when the recoverable amount of asset or being dealt with as a separate project and until such time as that Group evaluates the contractual terms of joint arrangements to CGU is measured at FV less costs of disposal.
The application of these project is complete, entities can choose between applying the hedge b From the start of Risk prole on page 64 to the end of the Pension determine whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint amendments has had no material impact on these consolidated accounting requirements of IFRS 9 or to continue to apply the existing risk section on page 100 excluding: venture.
At 31 December 2014 the Group did not have any contractual financial statements.
hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39.
The revised hedge interest in joint operations.
O Asset backed securities, page 85 accounting requirements in IFRS 9 are applied prospectively.
O Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the O Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 92 Measurement: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge For annual periods beginning before 1 January 2018, an entity may equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Accounting claries that there would be no need to discontinue elect, subject to EU endorsement, to early apply only the requirements O Encumbered assets, page 95 and Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill hedge accounting if a hedging derivative was novated, provided for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities identied on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The O Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio, page 95 and certain criteria are met.
The amendments were applied designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition retrospectively and did not have a material impact on these c From the start of the CRD IV capital base section on page 119 to The impact of the standard is currently being assessed.
It is not yet profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of consolidated financial statements the end of Movement in total capital section on page 120. practicable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 on these consolidated post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is O IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on when to recognise a liability financial statements.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements b Basis of preparation fora levy imposed by a government.
IFRIC 21 identies the obligating are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers event for the recognition of a liability.
If that obligating event occurs Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of cashThe effective date of IFRS 15 is 1 January 2017 with early adoption over a period of time, the levy is recognised proportionately.
If it is exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured settled share-based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial permitted.
IFRS 15 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
triggered by a minimum threshold, the liability is recognised when receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit or that threshold is reached.
This interpretation was applied The standard provides a principles-based approach for revenue incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or loss.
The Company financial statements have been prepared on a retrospectively and did not have a material impact on these recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for joint venture.
historical cost basis, as modied by cash-settled share-based consolidated financial statements obligations as they are satisfied.
The standard should be applied payments and the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its retrospectively.
While it is expected that a significant proportion of the O derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
There are a number of IFRS improvements that were effective from associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Groups revenue will be outside the scope of IFRS 15, the impact of the 1 January 2014.
Those changes did not have a significant impact on interest in the associates and joint ventures.
c significant accounting estimates and judgements standard is currently being assessed.
It is not yet practicable to these consolidated financial statements In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the quantify the effect of IFRS 15 on these consolidated financial At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events on f New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective statements.
objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates and those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The Groups A number of new standards and amendments to standards and joint ventures.
Such evidence includes a significant or prolonged g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2015 decline in the fair value of the Groups investment in an associate or As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
Further and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial joint venture below its cost, among other factors.
differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS and information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other statements.
These include: Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be disclosed.
Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant IFRS 9 Financial Instruments There would be no significant differences had these accounts been provided in note 23. disclosure notes for the following areas: IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and has an effective date of 1 January prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures O Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk and Capital review on page 81 2018.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement O Taxation refer to note 12 h Prior year restatements associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and and introduce new requirements for the classication and Details of prior year restatements are set out in note 41. dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, O Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, a new model if any.
for recognising loan loss provisions based on expected credit losses The accounting policies set out below have been applied O Goodwill impairment refer to note 26 and provide for simplied hedge accounting by aligning hedge consistently across the Group and to all years presented in Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses O Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 32 accounting more closely with an entitys risk management these financial statements.
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group methodology.
O Retirement benefit obligations refer to note 33 O Share-based payments refer to note 36 232 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 233
