Supplementary information Glossary Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital text, which was updated in June mortgage payments interest and or Country cross-border risk Customer deposits loss based on probability of default for Banks, Building Societies, Internal capital adequacy AT1 capital consists of instruments 2011, and represents the details of principal.
assets Money deposited by all individuals PD, loss given default LGD, and Insurers and Investment Firms.
assessment process ICAAP issued by the Group and related strengthened global regulatory Assets where the main source of and companies that are not credit exposure at default EAD, with a A requirement on institutions under Commercial paper CP Guaranteed mortgages share premiums that meet the standards on bank capital adequacy repayment or security is derived institutions including securities sold one-year time horizon.
Pillar 2 of the Basel II framework An unsecured promissory note Mortgages for which there is a criteria for inclusion in AT1 capital and liquidity.
The new requirements from a country other than that in under a repurchase agreement toundertake a comprehensive issued to finance short-term credit Exposures guarantor to provide the lender a and are not included in Common will be phased in and fully which the asset is booked.
Such funds are recorded as assessment of their risks and to needs.
It species the face amount Credit exposures represent the certain level of financial security in Equity Tier 1 CET1, and regulatory implemented by 1 January 2019. liabilities in the Groups balance determine the appropriate amounts paid to investors on the maturity date.
Cover ratio amount lent to a customer, together the event of default of the borrower.
adjustments required in the sheet under Customer accounts.
of capital to be held against these Basis point bps Represents the extent to which with an undrawn commitment.
Commercial real estate High quality liquid assets risks where other mitigants are not One hundredth of a per cent 0.01 non-performing loans are covered Debt restructuring Includes ofce buildings, industrial Exposure at default EAD HQLA available.
Additional value adjustment per cent : 100 basis points is 1 per by impairment allowances.
This is when the terms and property, medical centres, hotels, The estimation of the extent to Assets that are unencumbered, liquid See Prudent valuation adjustment.
Used in quoting movements in provisions of outstanding debt Internal model approach IMA malls, retail stores, shopping Covered bonds which the Group may be exposed to in markets during a time of stress interest rates or yields on securities.
This is The approach used to calculate Advanced internal ratings-based centres, farm land, multifamily Debt securities backed by a portfolio a customer or counterparty in the and, ideally, central bank eligible.
often done in order to improve cash market risk capital and risk-weighted AIRB approach BIPRU housing buildings, warehouses, of mortgages that are segregated event of, and at the time of, that These include, for example, cash ow and the ability of the borrower assets RWA with an internal market The AIRB approach under the The Prudential Regulation garages and industrial properties.
from the issuers other assets, solely counterpartys default.
At default, and claims on central governments to repay the debt.
It can involve risk model approved by the BaselII framework is used to Authoritys PRA Prudential Commercial real estate loans are for the benefit of the holders of the the customer may not have drawn and central banks.
The Basel III rules altering the repayment schedule as Prudential Regulation Authority calculate credit risk capital based on Sourcebook for Banks, Building those backed by a package of covered bonds.
the loan fully or may already have require this ratio to be at least well as debt or interest charge PRA under the terms of Capital the Groups own estimates of certain Societies and Investment Firms.
repaid some of the principal, so that 100per cent and it is expected to Credit conversion factor CCF reduction.
Requirements Directive CRD IV parameters.
exposure is typically less than the apply from 2015.
Capital Adequacy Directive Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 Either prescribed by the Prudential Capital Requirements Regulation Debt securities approved loan limit.
Advances-to-deposits ratio CAD II capital Regulation Authoritys PRA Impaired loans CRR.
Formerly referred to as Debt securities are assets on the The ratio of total loans and advances An amendment to CAD that gives CET1 capital consists of the Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, External Credit Assessment Loans where individual identied Capital Adequacy Directive CAD II.
Groups balance sheet and represent to customers relative to total national regulators the discretion to common shares issued by the Building Societies and Investment Institutions ECAIs impairment provisions have been certicates of indebtedness of credit Interest rate risk IRR customer deposits.
A low advancespermit rms to use their own Group and related share premium, Firms BIPRU or modelled by the For the standardised approach to raised and also include loans that institutions, public bodies or other IRR arises due to the investment to-deposits ratio demonstrates that value-at-risk model for calculating retained earnings, accumulated Group, an estimate of the amount credit risk for sovereigns, corporates are collateralised or where undertakings, excluding those ofequity and reserves into customer deposits exceed customer capital requirements subject to other comprehensive income and the Group expects a customer to and institutions, external ratings are indebtedness has already been issued by central banks.
rate-sensitive assets, as well as loans resulting from emphasis certain criteria.
other disclosed reserves, eligible have drawn down further on a used to assign risk weights.
These written down to the expected some tenor mismatches between placed on generating a high level of non-controlling interests and facility limit at the point of default.
Debt securities in issue external ratings must come from realisable value.
The impaired loan Capital Requirements Directive debt issuance and placements.
regulatory adjustments required Debt securities in issue are Prudential Regulation Authority category may include loans that, CRD III Credit default swaps CDSs inthe calculation of CET1.
transferable certicates of PRAapproved rating agencies, while impaired, are still performing.
Investment grade Asset backed securities ABS See Basel 2.5.
A credit derivative is an arrangement indebtedness of the Group to the known as ECAIs: namely Moodys, A debt security, treasury bill or Securities that represent an interest Constant currency whereby the credit risk of an asset Impairment allowances Capital Requirements Directive bearer of the certicate.
These are Standard & Poors and Fitch.
similar instrument with a credit rating in an underlying pool of referenced Constant currency change is the reference asset is transferred Impairment allowances are a CRD IV liabilities of the Group and include measured by external agencies of assets.
The referenced pool can derived by applying a simple from the buyer to the seller of Eurozone provision held on the balance sheet Represents the CRD and Capital certicates of deposits.
comprise any assets which attract a translation of the previous period protection.
A CDS is a contract Represents the 19 European Union as a result of the raising of a charge Requirements Regulation CRR that set of associated cash ows but are functional currency number in each where the protection seller receives Delinquency countries that have adopted the against profit for the incurred loss.
Jaws implement the Basel III proposals in commonly pools of residential or entity using the current average and premium or interest-related A debt or other financial obligation euro as their common currency.
The An impairment allowance may either The rate of income growth less the Europe.
commercial mortgages and, in the period-end US dollar exchange payments in return for contracting to isconsidered to be in a state of 19 eurozone countries are Austria, be identied or unidentified and rate of expense growth.
Expressed case of collateralised debt Capital resources rates to the income statement and make payments to the protection delinquency when payments are Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, individual specic or collective as positive jaws when income obligations CDOs, the reference Sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital after balance sheet respectively.
buyer upon a dened credit event.
Loans and advances are France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, portfolio.
growth exceeds expense growth pool may be ABS.
Credit events normally include considered to be delinquent when Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, and vice versa for negative jaws.
Contractual maturity Individual liquidity guidance bankruptcy, payment default on consecutive payments are missed.
Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Association of South East Asian Collateralised debt obligations Contractual maturity refers to the Guidance given to the Group about Leveraged finance areference asset or assets, or Also known as arrears.
Nations ASEAN CDOs final payment date of a loan or other the amount, quality and funding Loans or other nancing agreements downgrades by a rating agency.
ASEAN includes the Groups Securities issued by a third party financial instrument, at which point Deposits by banks Forbearance prole of liquidity resources that the provided to companies whose operation in Brunei, Indonesia, that reference asset-backed all the remaining outstanding Credit institutions Deposits by banks comprise Forbearance takes place when a Prudential Regulation Authority overall level of debt is high in relation Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, securities ABS and or certain other principal will be repaid and interest An institution whose business is to amounts owed to other domestic concession is made to the contractual PRA has asked the Group to to their cash ow net debt: earnings Thailand and Vietnam.
related assets purchased by the is due to be paid.
receive deposits or other repayable orforeign credit institutions by the terms of a loan in response to an maintain.
before interest, tax, depreciation issuer.
CDOs may feature exposure funds from the public and to grant Group including securities sold under obligors financial liabilities.
and amortisation EBITDA, typically Basel II Core Tier 1 capital Individually assessed loan to sub-prime mortgage assets credits for its own account.
arising from private equity The capital adequacy framework Core Tier 1 capital comprises Foundation internal impairment provisions through the underlying assets.
sponsor-led acquisitions of the issued by the Basel Committee on called-up ordinary share capital and Credit risk mitigation CRM Dividend per share ratings-based approach Also known as specic impairment businesses concerned.
Banking Supervision BCBS in June Collateralised loan obligation eligible reserves plus non-controlling CRM is a process to mitigate Represents the entitlement of each A method of calculating credit risk provisions.
Impairment is measured 2006 in the form of the International CLO interests, less goodwill and other potential credit losses from any shareholder in the share of the capital requirements using internal individually for assets that are Leverage ratio Convergence of Capital A security backed by the intangible assets and deductions given account, customer or portfolio profits of the company.
Calculated in probability of default PD models individually significant to the Group.
A ratio introduced under Capital Measurement and Capital repayments from a pool of relating to excess expected losses by using a range of tools such as the lowest unit of currency in which but with supervisory estimates of Typically, assets within the Requirements Directive CRD IV that Standards.
The payments over eligible provisions and collateral, netting agreements, credit the shares are quoted.
loss given default LGD and Corporate & Institutional Clients compares Tier 1 capital to total may be made to different classes securitisation positions as specified insurance, credit derivatives and conversion factors for the calculation segment of the Group are assessed exposures, including certain Basel 2.5 Early alerts ofowners in tranches.
by the UKs Prudential Regulation other guarantees.
of exposure at default EAD.
exposures held off-balance sheet In 2009, the European Commission An early alert is the process for Authority PRA.
asadjusted by stipulated credit proposed further changes to Capital Collectively assessed loan Credit risk spread proactive identication and Free deliveries Innovative Tier 1 capital conversion factors.
Intended to be a Requirements Directive CRD III to impairment provisions Core Tier 1 capital ratio The credit spread is the yield spread management of counterparty A transaction in which securities, Innovative Tier 1 capital consists of simple, non-risk-based backstop address the lessons of the financial Also known as portfolio impairment Core Tier 1 capital as a percentage between securities with the same exposures exhibiting signs of foreign currencies or commodities instruments that incorporate certain measure.
Impairment assessment of risk-weighted assets.
coupon rate and maturity structure weakness of a material nature have been paid for before receiving features, the effect of which is to international developments and on a collective basis for but with different associated credit requiring monitoring, supervision them, or where securities, foreign weaken but only marginally the key Liquidity and credit Cost-to-income ratio follow the agreements reached by homogeneous groups of loans that risks, with the yield spread rising as orclose attention by management.
currencies or commodities have characteristics of Tier 1 capital that enhancements Represents the proportion of total the Basel Committee on Banking are not considered individually the credit rating worsens.
It is the been delivered before receiving is, fully subordinated, perpetual and Credit enhancement facilities are used operating expenses to total Effective tax rate ETR Supervision BCBS.
They included significant and to cover losses that premium over the benchmark or payment for them.
Innovative Tier 1 to enhance the creditworthiness of operating income.
The tax on profits on ordinary higher capital requirements for have been incurred but have not yet risk-free rate required by the market capital is subject to a limit of 15 per financial obligations and cover activities as a percentage of profit Funded unfunded exposures resecuritisations, upgrading been identied at the balance sheet Counterparty credit risk to take on a lower credit quality.
cent of total Tier 1 capital.
losses due to asset default.
Two on ordinary activities before Exposures where the notional disclosure standards for date.
Typically, Retail Clients are The risk that a counterparty will general types of credit enhancement Credit valuation adjustments taxation.
amount of the transaction is funded Internal ratings-based IRB securitisation exposures and assessed on a portfolio basis.
default before satisfying its are third-party loan guarantees and CVA or unfunded.
Represents exposures approach strengthening market risk capital obligations under a contract.
Expected loss EL self-enhancement through Commercial mortgage backed An adjustment to fair value primarily where there is a commitment to The IRB approach is used to requirements.
The Group measure of anticipated .
Liquidity securities CMBS Country of credit responsibility in respect of derivative contracts provide future funding, but funds calculate risk-weighted assets in loss for exposures captured under enhancement makes funds available Basel III Securities that represent interests in Total exposure to a client is that reects the possibility that the have been released not released.
accordance with the Basel Capital an internal ratings-based credit risk if required, for other reasons than In December 2010, the Basel a pool of commercial mortgages.
aggregated to its parents counterparty may default such that Accord where capital requirements approach for capital adequacy GENPRU asset default, e. g. to ensure timely Committee on Banking Supervision Investors in these securities have the predominant risk location regardless the Group would not receive the full are based on a rms own estimates calculations.
EL is measured as the The Prudential Regulation Authoritys repayment of maturing commercial BCBS issued the Basel III rules right to cash received from future of where the exposure is booked.
market value of the transactions.
Group-modelled view of anticipated PRA General Prudential Sourcebook paper.
330 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 331 Supplementary information Glossary Liquid asset buffer Mortgage backed securities Normalised earnings agreement, which would be treated Group is able to take possession of.
issuer, are subordinated to the These assets include high-quality MBS profit attributable to ordinary as a new loan.
All secured loans are considered claims of depositors and other government or central bank Securities that represent interests in shareholders adjusted for profits or fully secured if the fair value of the creditors of the issuer.
Repo reverse repo securities, certain deposits with a group of mortgages.
Investors in losses of a capital nature: amounts collateral is equal to or greater than A repurchase agreement or repo is Sub-prime central banks and securities issued these securities have the right to consequent to investment the loan at the time of origination.
All ashort-term funding agreement that Sub-prime is dened as loans to by designated multilateral cash received from future mortgage transactions driven by strategic other secured loans are considered allows a borrower to sell financial borrowers typically having weakened development banks to meet the payments interest and or principal.
intent: and other infrequent and or to be partly secured.
assets, such as asset backed credit histories that include payment Prudential Regulation Authoritys exceptional transactions that are Mortgage related assets securities ABS or government Securitisation delinquencies and potentially more PRA requirement for liquidity.
significant or material in the context Assets that are referenced to bonds as collateral for cash.
As part Securitisation is a process by which severe problems such as court of the Groups normal business Liquid asset ratio underlying mortgages.
of the agreement, the borrower debt instruments are aggregated judgements and bankruptcies.
They earnings for the period.
Ratio of total liquid assets to total agrees to repurchase the security at into a pool, which is used to back may also display reduced repayment Medium-term notes MTNs assets.
Liquid assets comprise cash Over-the-counter OTC some later date, usually less than new securities.
A company sells capacity as measured by credit Corporate notes continuously less restricted balances, net derivatives 30days, repaying the proceeds of assets to a special purpose entity scores, high debt-to-income ratios, offered by a company to investors interbank, treasury bills and debt A bilateral transaction e. g. the loan.
For the party on the other SPE who then issues securities or other criteria indicating heightened through a dealer.
Investors can securities less illiquid securities.
derivatives that is not exchange end of the transaction buying the backed by the assets based on their risk of default.
choose from differing maturities, traded and that is valued using security and agreeing to sell in the value.
This allows the credit quality Liquid cover ratio LCR ranging from nine months to Tangible net asset value per valuation models.
future it is a reverse repurchase of the assets to be separated from A short-term liquidity measure that 30years.
share agreement or reverse repo.
the credit rating of the original considers a 30-day period of Pre-provision profit Ratio of parent shareholders equity Net asset value per share company and transfers risk to liquidity stress.
Operating profit before impairment Residential mortgage less preference shares classied as Ratio of net assets total assets less external investors.
A loan to purchase a residential equity and goodwill and intangible Loans and advances total liabilities to the number of property that is then used as Senior debt assets to the number of ordinary This represents lending made under ordinary shares outstanding at the Private equity investments collateral to guarantee repayment of Senior debt, frequently issued in the shares outstanding at the end of the bilateral agreements with customers end of a reporting period.
Equity securities in operating the loan.
The borrower gives the form of senior notes, is debt that reporting period.
entered into in the normal course of companies generally not quoted on Net exposure lender a lien against the property, takes priority over other unsecured business and is based on the legal a public exchange.
Investment in Tier 1 capital The aggregate of loans and and the lender can foreclose on the or otherwise more junior debt form of the instrument.
An example private equity often involves the Tier 1 capital comprises common advances to customers loans and property if the borrower does not owed by the issuer.
Senior debt has of a loan product is a home loan.
investment of capital in private Equity Tier 1 capital plus Additional advances to banks after impairment repay the loan per the agreed terms.
greater seniority in the issuers companies.
Capital for private equity Tier 1 securities and related share Loans to banks provisions, restricted balances with Also known as a home loan.
capital structure after subordinated investment is raised by retail or premium accounts.
Amounts loaned to credit institutions, central banks, derivatives net of debt.
In the event the issuer goes institutional investors and used to Residential mortgage backed including securities bought under a master netting agreements, bankrupt, senior debt theoretically Tier 1 capital ratio fund investment strategies such as securities RMBS reverse repurchase agreement repo.
investment debt and equity must be repaid before other Tier 1 capital as a percentage of leveraged buy-outs, venture capital, Securities that represent interests in securities, and letters of credit and creditors receive any payment.
Loans to individuals growth capital, distressed a group of residential mortgages.
Money loaned to individuals rather investments and mezzanine capital.
Investors in these securities have the Sovereign exposures Tier 2 capital than institutions.
The loans may be Net interest income right to cash received from future Exposures to central governments Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying Probability of default PD for car or home purchases, medical The difference between interest mortgage payments interest and or and central government subordinated liabilities and related PD is an internal estimate for each care, home repair, holidays, and received on assets and interest paid principal.
departments, central banks and share premium accounts.
borrower grade of the likelihood that other consumer uses.
entities owned or guaranteed by an obligor will default on an Return on equity UK bank levy theaforementioned.
Sovereign Loan-to-value ratio Net interest margin obligation.
Represents the ratio of the current A levy that applies to certain UK exposures, as dened by the A mathematical calculation that The margin is expressed as net years profit available for distribution banks and the UK operations of profit attributable to ordinary European Banking Authority EBA, expresses the amount of a first interest income divided by average to ordinary shareholders to the foreign banks from 1 January 2011. shareholders include only exposures to central mortgage lien as a percentage of interest-earning assets.
weighted average ordinary The levy is payable each year based profit for the year after governments.
thetotal appraised value of real shareholders equity for the on a percentage of the chargeable Net interest yield non-controlling interests and property.
The loan-to-value ratio is reporting period.
Standardised approach liabilities of the Group as at Interest income divided by average dividends declared in respect of used in determining the appropriate In relation to credit risk, a method 31 December.
interest-earning assets less interest preference shares classied as Return on risk-weighted assets level of risk for the loan and therefore forcalculating credit risk capital expense divided by average interestequity.
Operating profit excluding civil Value at risk VaR the correct price of the loan to the requirements using External Credit bearing liabilities.
monetary penalty, goodwill VaR is an estimate of the potential borrower.
Prudent valuation adjustment Assessment Institutions ECAI impairment and own credit divided loss that might arise from market Net stable funding ratio NSFR A deduction from Common Equity ratings and supervisory risk weights.
Loans past due by average total risk-weighted movements under normal market The ratio of available stable funding Tier 1 CET1 capital, to reect the In relation to operational risk, a Loans on which payments have assets.
conditions, if the current positions to required stable funding over a difference between fair value and method of calculating the been due for up to a maximum of were to be held unchanged for one one-year time horizon, assuming a prudent value positions, where the Risks-not-in-value at risk RNIV operational capital requirement by 90days, including those on which business day, measured to a stressed scenario.
It is a longer-term application of prudent results in a A framework for identifying and the application of a supervisory partial payments are being made.
confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
liquidity measure designed to lower absolute carrying value than quantifying marginal types of market dened percentage charge to the Loss given default LGD restrain the amount of wholesale recognised in the financial risk that are not captured in the gross income of eight specified Working profit LGD is the percentage of an borrowing and encourage stable statements.
value at risk measure for any reason, business lines.
Operating profit before impairment exposure that a lender expects to funding over a one-year time such as being a far-tail risk or the losses and taxation.
Renegotiated loans Stressed value at risk lose in the event of obligor default.
necessary historical market data not Loans and advances are generally A regulatory market risk measure Write-downs being available.
Master netting agreement Non-performing loans renegotiated either as part of an based on potential market After an advance has been identied An agreement between two A non-performing loan is any loan ongoing client relationship or in Risk-weighted assets movements for a continuous as impaired and is subject to an counterparties that have multiple that is more than 90 days past due response to an adverse change in A measure of a banks assets one-year period of stress for a impairment allowance, the stage derivative contracts with each other or is otherwise individually impaired, the circumstances of the borrower.
adjusted for their associated risks.
may be reached whereby it is that provides for the net settlement other than a loan which is: In the latter case, renegotiation can Risk weightings are established in concluded that there is no realistic Structured finance notes O of all contracts through a single Renegotiated before 90 days past result in an extension of the due accordance with the Basel Capital prospect of further recovery.
A structured note is an investment payment, in a single currency, in the due, and on which no default in date of payment or repayment plans Accord as implemented by the Writedowns will occur when, and to tool that pays a return linked to the event of default on, or termination of, interest payments or loss of under which the Group offers a Financial Services Authority FSA.
the extent that, the whole or part of value or level of a specified asset or any one contract.
principal is expected concessionary rate of interest to a debt is considered irrecoverable.
Seasoning index and sometimes offers capital O Renegotiated at or after 90 days genuinely distressed borrowers.
Mezzanine capital The emergence of credit loss protection if the value declines.
past due, but on which there has Such assets will be individually Financing that combines debt and patterns in portfolio over time.
Structured notes can be linked to been no default in interest or impaired where the renegotiated equity characteristics.
For example, equities, interest rates, funds, principal payments for more than payments of interest and principal Secured fully and partially a loan that also confers some profit commodities and foreign currency.
180 days since renegotiation, and will not recover the original carrying A secured loan is a loan in which participation to the lender.
against which no loss of principal amount of the asset and are dened theborrower pledges an asset as Subordinated liabilities is expected.
In other cases, collateral for a loan that, in the event Liabilities that, in the event of renegotiation may lead to a new that the borrower defaults, the insolvency or liquidation of the 332 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 333
