Financial statements and notes Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued a Statement of compliance d Fiduciary activities Classication and measurement i Consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate those of Standard The Group commonly acts as trustee and in other duciary capacities Financial assets are classied on the basis of the business model within Subsidiaries Chartered PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to that result in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, which they are held, and their contractual cash ow characteristics.
The Subsidiaries are all entities, including structured entities, which the as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in associates trusts, retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
The assets and standard also introduces a fair value through other comprehensive Group controls.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or and jointly controlled entities.
The parent company financial statements income arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, income FVOCI measurement category for particular simple debt has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and present information about the Company as a separate entity and not as they are not assets and income of the Group.
The requirements for the classication and measurement has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the about its group.
of financial liabilities were carried forward unchanged from IAS 39, e New accounting standards adopted by the Group investee.
The assessment of power is based on the Groups practical however, the requirements relating to the fair value option for financial Both the parent company financial statements and the Group financial On 1 January 2014, the Group adopted the following amendments to ability to direct the relevant activities of the entity unilaterally for the liabilities were changed to address own credit risk and, in particular, the statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in standards and new interpretation.
Groups own benefit and is subject to reassessment if and when one or presentation of gains and losses within other comprehensive income.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and more of the elements of control change.
Subsidiaries are fully O Amendment to International Accounting Standards IAS 32 Financial IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by Impairment consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial the European Union EU.
EU endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS IFRS 9 incorporates an expected loss approach for recognising credit control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases, Liabilities claries the requirements for offsetting financial assets and published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB if a losses.
Under this approach expected credit losses or lifetime expected and where any interest in the subsidiary remains, this is remeasured to liabilities and addresses inconsistencies noted in current practice standard has not been endorsed by the EU.
credit losses for all amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments would its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32.
These amendments be recognised depending on whether or not significant credit income statement.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the were applied retrospectively and did not have a material impact on deterioration has occurred since origination or acquisition.
Group financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the these consolidated financial statements significant deterioration has not occurred, a provision equating to 12 exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its Structured entities are consolidated when the substance of the Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Nonmonths of expected credit losses would be recognised whereas if there individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that relationship between the Group and the structured entity indicates the Financial Assets removes the requirement to disclose the recoverable is a significant deterioration in credit risk, lifetime expected credit losses form a part of these approved financial statements.
Groups power over the structured entity.
Details of the Groups use of amount of a cash-generating unit CGU to which goodwill or other would be recognised.
structured entities are set out in note 24.
The following parts of the Risk and Capital review form part of these intangible assets with indefinite useful lives have been allocated when Hedge accounting financial statements: there has been no impairment or reversal of impairment of the related Associates and joint arrangements The general hedge accounting model aligns hedge accounting more CGU.
Joint arrangements are where two or more parties either have rights to a Regulatory compliance, review, request for information and closely with risk management and establish a more principle-based the assets, and obligations of the joint arrangement joint operations or investigations: and Risk of fraud and other criminal acts on pages 103 Furthermore, the amendments introduce additional disclosure approach to hedge accounting.
Dynamic hedging of open portfolios is have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement joint venture.
The and 104: requirements applicable to when the recoverable amount of asset or being dealt with as a separate project and until such time as that Group evaluates the contractual terms of joint arrangements to CGU is measured at FV less costs of disposal.
The application of these project is complete, entities can choose between applying the hedge b From the start of Risk prole on page 64 to the end of the Pension determine whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation or a joint amendments has had no material impact on these consolidated accounting requirements of IFRS 9 or to continue to apply the existing risk section on page 100 excluding: venture.
At 31 December 2014 the Group did not have any contractual financial statements.
hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39.
The revised hedge interest in joint operations.
O Asset backed securities, page 85 accounting requirements in IFRS 9 are applied prospectively.
O Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the O Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 92 Measurement: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge For annual periods beginning before 1 January 2018, an entity may equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Accounting claries that there would be no need to discontinue elect, subject to EU endorsement, to early apply only the requirements O Encumbered assets, page 95 and Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill hedge accounting if a hedging derivative was novated, provided for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities identied on acquisition net of any accumulated impairment loss.
The O Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio, page 95 and certain criteria are met.
The amendments were applied designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition retrospectively and did not have a material impact on these c From the start of the CRD IV capital base section on page 119 to The impact of the standard is currently being assessed.
It is not yet profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of consolidated financial statements the end of Movement in total capital section on page 120. practicable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 on these consolidated post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is O IFRIC 21 Levies provides guidance on when to recognise a liability financial statements.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements b Basis of preparation fora levy imposed by a government.
IFRIC 21 identies the obligating are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers event for the recognition of a liability.
If that obligating event occurs Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of cashThe effective date of IFRS 15 is 1 January 2017 with early adoption over a period of time, the levy is recognised proportionately.
If it is exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured settled share-based payments, available-for-sale assets, and financial permitted.
IFRS 15 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
triggered by a minimum threshold, the liability is recognised when receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has assets and liabilities including derivatives at fair value through profit or that threshold is reached.
This interpretation was applied The standard provides a principles-based approach for revenue incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or loss.
The Company financial statements have been prepared on a retrospectively and did not have a material impact on these recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for joint venture.
historical cost basis, as modied by cash-settled share-based consolidated financial statements obligations as they are satisfied.
The standard should be applied payments and the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its retrospectively.
While it is expected that a significant proportion of the O derivatives at fair value through profit or loss.
There are a number of IFRS improvements that were effective from associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Groups revenue will be outside the scope of IFRS 15, the impact of the 1 January 2014.
Those changes did not have a significant impact on interest in the associates and joint ventures.
c significant accounting estimates and judgements standard is currently being assessed.
It is not yet practicable to these consolidated financial statements In determining the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities, the quantify the effect of IFRS 15 on these consolidated financial At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is any Group makes assumptions of the effects of uncertain future events on f New accounting standards in issue but not yet effective statements.
objective evidence of impairment in the investment in associates and those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The Groups A number of new standards and amendments to standards and joint ventures.
Such evidence includes a significant or prolonged g IFRS and Hong Kong accounting requirements estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and interpretations are effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2015 decline in the fair value of the Groups investment in an associate or As required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules, an explanation of the expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
Further and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial joint venture below its cost, among other factors.
differences in accounting practices between EU endorsed IFRS and information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other statements.
These include: Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards is required to be disclosed.
Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant IFRS 9 Financial Instruments There would be no significant differences had these accounts been provided in note 23. disclosure notes for the following areas: IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014 and has an effective date of 1 January prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures O Loan loss provisioning refer to Risk and Capital review on page 81 2018.
The standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
In the Companys financial statements, investment in subsidiaries, replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement O Taxation refer to note 12 h Prior year restatements associates and joint ventures are held at cost less impairment and and introduce new requirements for the classication and Details of prior year restatements are set out in note 41. dividends from pre-acquisition profits received prior to 1 January 2009, O Fair value of financial instruments refer to note 15 measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, a new model if any.
for recognising loan loss provisions based on expected credit losses The accounting policies set out below have been applied O Goodwill impairment refer to note 26 and provide for simplied hedge accounting by aligning hedge consistently across the Group and to all years presented in Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses O Provisions for liabilities and charges refer to note 32 accounting more closely with an entitys risk management these financial statements.
on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in the Group methodology.
O Retirement benefit obligations refer to note 33 O Share-based payments refer to note 36 232 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 233 Financial statements and notes Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued O Business combinations Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated Fees and commissions Designation of certain liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the at the closing rate at the balance sheet date Fees and commissions are generally recognised on an accrual basis signicantly reduces the accounting mismatch between fair value and acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
Note 25 provides details on when the service has been provided or significant act performed.
Loan amortised cost expense recognition.
Details of financial liabilities O Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at business combinations entered into by the Group during 2014. syndication fees are recognised as revenue when the syndication has designated at fair value are disclosed in note 15. average exchange rates or at rates on the date of the transaction been completed and the Group retained no part of the loan package The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets where exchange rates uctuate signicantly Loans and receivables for itself, or retained a part at the same effective interest rate as for the given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or O All resulting exchange differences arising since 1 January 2004 are other participants.
Portfolio and other management advisory fees and the date of exchange, together with the fair value of any contingent determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market and it is recognised as a separate component of equity service distribution fees are recognised based on the applicable consideration payable.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the expected that substantially all of the initial investment will be recovered, contracts, usually on a time apportionment basis.
fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of other than because of credit deterioration.
contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill see note 26 for the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other l Cash and cash equivalents Held-to-maturity details on goodwill recognised by the Group.
If the cost of acquisition currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are For the purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash Held-to-maturity assets are non-derivative financial assets with xed or is less than the fair value of the net assets and contingent liabilities of taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold equivalents comprise cash, on demand and overnight balances with determinable payments and xed maturities that the Groups the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the or capital repatriated they are recognised in the income statement as central banks unless restricted and balances with less than three management has the intention and ability to hold to maturity.
part of the gain or loss on disposal.
months maturity from the date of acquisition, including treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans and advances to banks, and short-term Available-for-sale Where the fair values of the identiable net assets and contingent Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a government securities.
Available-for-sale assets are those non-derivative financial assets liabilities acquired have been determined provisionally, or where foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold contingent or deferred consideration is payable, adjustments arising and translated at the closing rate.
m Financial assets and liabilities classication excluding in response to liquidity requirements or changes in interest rates, from their subsequent nalisation are not reected in the income derivatives k Income recognition exchange rates, commodity prices or equity prices.
statement if i they arise within 12 months of the acquisition date or The Group classies its financial assets into the following measurement relate to acquisitions completed before 1 January 2013 and ii the Income from financial instruments categories: a financial assets held at fair value through profit or loss: b Further details on the application of these policies is set out in note 15. adjustments arise from better information about conditions existing at Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial loans and receivables: c held-to-maturity: and d available-for-sale.
Financial liabilities held at amortised cost the acquisition date measurement period adjustments.
Such instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are included in the Financial liabilities are classied as either held at fair value through profit Financial liabilities, which include borrowings, not classied held at fair adjustments are applied as at the date of acquisition and if applicable, income statement in the period in which they arise.
Contractual interest or loss, or at amortised cost.
Management determines the classication value through profit or loss are classied as amortised cost prior year amounts are restated.
All changes that are not measurement income and expense on financial instruments held at fair value through of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition or, where instruments.
period adjustments are reported in income other than changes in profit or loss is recognised within net interest income.
applicable, at the time of reclassication.
Details of financial assets and contingent consideration not classied as financial instruments, which liabilities held by the Group are provided in notes 15, 16 and 17.
Preference shares which carry a mandatory coupon that represents a For available-for-sale assets and financial assets and liabilities held at are accounted for in accordance with the appropriate accounting market rate of interest at the issue date, or which are redeemable on a amortised cost, interest income and interest expense is recognised Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit policy, and changes in contingent consideration classied as equity, specic date or at the option of the shareholder are classied as using the effective interest method.
or loss which is not remeasured.
financial liabilities and are presented in other borrowed funds.
The This category has two sub-categories: financial assets and liabilities The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised dividends on these preference shares are recognised in the income Changes in ownership interest in a subsidiary which do not result in a held for trading, and those designated at fair value through profit or loss cost of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating the statement as interest expense on an amortised cost basis using the loss of control are treated as transactions between equity holders and at inception.
A financial asset or liability is classied as trading if interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the previously payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial Financial assets and liabilities may be designated at fair value through Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value with instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying profit or loss when: transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the O The designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or at the measurement date in the principal or in the absence of the most effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash ows considering all Details of the Groups interest in associates and joint ventures are recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise from measuring advantageous market to which the Group has access at that date.
The contractual terms of the financial instrument for example, prepayment provided in note 23. assets or liabilities on a different basis fair value of a liability reects its non-performance risk.
options but does not consider future credit losses.
The calculation O j Foreign currencies includes all fees paid or received between parties to the contract that A group of financial assets and or liabilities is managed and its The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on the Items included in the Group financial statements for each of the are an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and performance evaluated on a fair value basis basis of the individual financial instrument.
However, when a group of Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary all other premiums or discounts.
financial assets and financial liabilities is managed on the basis of its net O The assets or liabilities include embedded derivatives and such economic environment in which the entity operates the functional exposure to either market risks or credit risk, the fair value of the group Where the estimates of cash ows have been revised, the carrying derivatives are required to be recognised separately currency of that entity.
Both the Company and Group financial of financial instruments is measured on a net basis.
amount of the financial asset or liability is adjusted to reect the actual statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional and For certain loans and advances and debt securities with xed rates of and revised cash ows, discounted at the instruments original effective The fair values of quoted financial assets and liabilities in active markets presentation currency of the Company and the presentation currency interest, interest rate swaps have been acquired with the intention of interest rate.
The adjustment is recognised as interest income or are based on current prices.
A market is regarded as active if of the Group.
signicantly reducing interest rate risk.
To signicantly reduce the expense in the period in which the revision is made.
transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities and measurement Transactions and balances and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
If the If the financial asset has been reclassied, subsequent increases in the bases, these loans and advances and debt securities have been Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional market for a financial instrument, and for unlisted securities, is not estimates of future cash receipts as a result of increased recoverability designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Details of financial assets currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date.
active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
are recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate from the designated at fair value are disclosed in notes 15 and 16.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of date of the change in estimate.
Initial recognition such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates The Group has also designated certain financial liabilities at fair value Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities held at fair value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, are Once a financial asset or a group of similar financial assets has been through profit or loss where either the liabilities: through profit or loss, and financial assets classied as held-to-maturity recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and written down as a result of an impairment loss, interest income is O Have xed rates of interest and interest rate swaps or other interest and available-for-sale are initially recognised on the trade-date the date liabilities are translated at historical exchange rates if held at historical recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash rate derivatives have been entered into with the intention of on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Loans are cost, or year-end exchange rates if held at fair value, and the resulting ows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
signicantly reducing interest rate risk recognised when cash is advanced to the borrowers.
All financial foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in either the income Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of  are initially recognised at fair value, which is normally the O statement or shareholders equity depending on the treatment of the Are exposed to foreign currency risk and derivatives have been sale financial assets, other than foreign exchange gains and losses transaction price plus, for those financial assets and liabilities not gain or loss on the asset or liability.
acquired with the intention of signicantly reducing exposure to from monetary items, are recognised directly in equity, until the financial carried at fair value through profit and loss, directly attributable market changes Foreign currency translation asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or transaction costs.
O The results and financial position of all the entities included in the Group loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Have been acquired to fund trading asset portfolios or assets, or financial statements that have a functional currency different from the where the assets and liabilities are managed, and performance Dividends on equity instruments are recognised in the income Groups presentation currency are accounted for as follows: evaluated, on a fair value basis for a documented risk management statement within other income when the Groups right to receive or investment strategy payment is established.
234 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 235 Financial statements and notes Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued In certain circumstances, the initial fair value may be based on a Assets carried at amortised cost Available-for-sale assets advances to other banks or customers, as appropriate.
The difference valuation technique which may lead to the recognition of profits or The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment Where objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued losses at the time of initial recognition.
However, these profits or losses exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
can only be recognised when the valuation technique used is based and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not between the amortised cost and the current fair value, less any Securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial solely on observable market data.
In those cases where the initially individually significant.
impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the statements.
Securities borrowed are not recognised in the financial recognised fair value is based on a valuation model that uses inputs income statement is reclassied from equity and recognised in the If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the which are not observable in the market, the difference between the income statement.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it purchase and sale are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading transaction price and the valuation model is not recognised an equity security below its cost is considered, among other factors in includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk income.
immediately in the income statement.
assessing objective evidence of impairment for equity securities.
characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment.
Assets Details of repo and reverse-repo transactions entered into by the Group The difference is amortised to the income statement until the inputs that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classied are provided in note 15. become observable, or the transaction matures or is terminated.
impairment loss is or continues to be recognised, are not included in a as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively collective assessment of impairment.
related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, Derecognition Subsequent measurement the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows Financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a loan and Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity from the financial assets have expired or where the Group has subsequently carried at fair value, with gains and losses arising from receivable or a held-to-maturity asset has been incurred, the amount of instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
If changes in fair value taken directly to the net trading income line in the the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying substantially all the risks and rewards have been neither retained nor income statement.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows excluding Renegotiated loans transferred and the Group has retained control, the assets continue to future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the Loans whose original terms have been modied including those subject Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value, be recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset to forbearance strategies are considered renegotiated loans.
If the with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value taken to the is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of renegotiations are on terms that are not consistent with those readily Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished.
A available-for-sale reserve within equity until the asset is sold, or is the loss is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan and receivable available on the market, this provides objective evidence of impairment financial liability is extinguished when the obligation is discharged, impaired, when the cumulative gain or loss is transferred to the income or held-to-maturity asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate and the loan is assessed accordingly.
for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate Offsetting financial instruments If the Group purchases its own debt, it is removed from the balance Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity financial assets are determined under the contract.
As a practical expedient, the Group Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in sheet, and the difference between the carrying amount of the liability subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest may measure impairment on the basis of an instruments fair value the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the and the consideration paid is included in Other income.
using an observable market price.
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, n Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Financial liabilities are subsequently stated at amortised cost, with any The calculation of the present value of the estimated future cash ows or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value in response difference between proceeds net of directly attributable transaction of a collateralised financial asset reects the cash ows that may result Further details on offsetting are set out in note 15. to changes in interest rates, financial instrument prices, commodity costs and the redemption value recognised in the income statement from foreclosure, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral, prices, foreign exchange rates, credit risk and indices.
Derivatives are over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
whether or not foreclosure is probable.
Further details on collateral held Reclassications categorised as trading unless they are designated as hedging by the Group is discussed in the Risk and Capital review on page 70.
Reclassications of financial assets, other than as set out below, or of In addition to these instruments, the carrying value of a financial instruments.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, financial financial liabilities between measurement categories are not permitted instrument carried at amortised cost that is the hedged item in a assets are grouped on the basis of similar credit risk characteristics following initial recognition.
All derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair qualifying fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the fair value gain i. e. on the basis of the Groups grading process which considers asset value, with all revaluation gains recognised in profit and loss except or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
Held for trading non-derivative financial assets can only be transferred type, industry, geographic location, collateral type, past-due status where cash ow or net investment hedging has been achieved, in out of the held at fair value through profit or loss category in the Impairment of financial assets andother relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to the which case the effective portion of changes in fair value is recognised following circumstances: to the available-for-sale category, where, in The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is estimation of future cash ows for groups of such assets being within other comprehensive income.
rare circumstances, they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is indicative of the debtors ability to pay all amounts due according to repurchasing in the near term: or to the loan and receivables category, Fair values may be obtained from quoted market prices in active impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and thecontractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
where they are no longer held for the purpose of selling or repurchasing markets, recent market transactions, and valuation techniques, impairment losses are incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence Future cash ows in a group of financial assets that are collectively in the near term and they would have met the denition of a loan and including discounted cash ow models and option pricing models, as of impairment as a result of one or more events occurring after the evaluated for impairment are based on the probability of default receivable at the date of reclassication and the Group has the intent appropriate.
Where the initially recognised fair value of a derivative initial recognition of the asset a loss event, and that loss event or inherent within the portfolio of impaired loans or receivables and the and ability to hold the assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
contract is based on a valuation model that uses inputs which are not events has an impact on the estimated future cash ows of the historical loss experience for assets with credit risk characteristics observable in the market, it follows the same initial recognition financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably Financial assets can only be transferred out of the available-for-sale similar to those in the group.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on accounting policy as for other financial assets and liabilities.
category to the loan and receivables category where they would have the basis of current observable data to reect the effects of current derivatives are carried as assets when fair value is positive and as met the denition of a loan and receivable at the date of reclassication The Group considers the following factors in assessing objective conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss liabilities when fair value is negative.
and the Group has the intent and ability to hold the assets for the evidence of impairment: experience is based, and to remove the effects of conditions in the foreseeable future or until maturity.
Certain derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, such as historical period that do not exist currently.
O Whether the counterparty is in default of principal or interest the conversion option in a convertible bond held, are valued as Held-to-maturity assets must be reclassied to the available-for-sale payments To the extent a loan is irrecoverable, it is written off against the related separate derivatives when their economic characteristics and risks are category if the portfolio becomes tainted following the sale of other provision for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the not closely related to those of the host contract and the host contract is O When a counterparty les for bankruptcy protection or the local than an insignicant amount of held-to-maturity assets prior to their necessary procedures have been completed, it is decided that there is not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded equivalent and this would avoid or delay discharge of its obligation maturity.
no realistic probability of recovery and the amount of the loss has been derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value O Where the Group les to have the counterparty declared bankrupt or determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off Financial assets are reclassied at their fair value on the date of recognised in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives continue to les a similar order in respect of a credit obligation decrease the amount of the provision for loan impairment in the income reclassication.
For financial assets reclassied out of the available-forbe presented with the host contract and are not separately disclosed or statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment sale category into loans and receivables, any gain or loss on those included within derivatives.
O Where the Group consents to a restructuring of the obligation, loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event assets recognised in shareholders equity prior to the date of resulting in a diminished financial obligation, demonstrated by a The method of recognising the resulting fair value gain or loss depends occurring after the impairment was recognised such as an reclassication is amortised to the income statement over the material forgiveness of debt or postponement of scheduled on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if improvement in the debtors credit rating, the previously recognised remaining life of the financial asset, using the effective interest method.
payments so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain impairment loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The Details of reclassications are set out in note 15. derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or O Where the Group sells a credit obligation at a material credit-related amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
liabilities or rm commitments fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly economic loss: or where there is observable data indicating that Sale and repurchase agreements Further details on the application of these policies is set out in the Risk probable future cash ows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash ows of Securities sold subject to repurchase agreements repos remain on the and Capital review on pages 58 to 125. or a forecasted transaction cash ow hedge : or 3 hedges of the net a group of financial assets, although the decrease cannot yet be balance sheet: the counterparty liability is included in deposits by investment of a foreign operation net investment hedges.
identied with specic individual financial assets banks, or customer accounts, as appropriate.
Securities purchased under agreements to resell reverse-repos are recorded as loans and 236 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 237 Financial statements and notes Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, based on the interest rate implicit in the lease to give a constant Property, plant and equipment s Employee benets provided certain criteria are met.
Land and buildings comprise mainly branches and ofces.
All property, Retirement benefit obligations plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation The Group and Company documents, at the inception of the Where a Group company is the lessor The Group operates a number of pension and other post-retirement and impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged When assets are leased to customers under finance leases, the present benefit plans around the world, including dened contribution plans attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for value of the lease payments is recognised as a receivable.
The and dened benefit plans.
The Group also documents its difference between the gross receivable and the present value of the Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or are For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of receivable is recognised as unearned finance income.
Lease income is recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is or privately administered pension plans on a mandatory, contractual or whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly recognised over the term of the lease using the net investment method probable that future economic benets associated with the item will voluntary basis, and such amounts are charged to operating expenses.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged before tax, which reects a constant periodic rate of return ignoring ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions items.
other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement have been paid.
during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Details of the derivative financial instruments held by the Group, Assets leased to customers under operating leases are included within For funded dened benefit plans, the liability recognised in the balance including those held for hedge accounting are provided in note 17.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Freehold land is not depreciated although it is subject to impairment sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the Rental income on these leased assets is recognised in the income testing.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straightFair value hedge balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets.
For unfunded statement on a straight-line basis unless another systematic basis is line method to allocate their cost to their residual values over their Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify dened benefit plans the liability recognised at the balance sheet date more representative.
estimated useful lives, as follows: as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income is the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
The dened statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged p Intangible and tangible xed assets Buildings up to 50 years benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
If the hedge no the projected unit method.
The present value of the dened benefit Goodwill Leasehold improvements life of lease, up to 50 years longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest Equipment and motor vehicles three to 15 years outows using an interest rate equal to the yield on high-quality fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets and method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint Aircraft and Ships up to 25 years maturity or derecognition.
benets will be paid, and that have a term to maturity approximating to venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of the term of the related pension liability.
Cash ow hedge subsidiaries is included in Intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are associates is included in Investments in associates.
Goodwill included if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
At each balance sheet date, Actuarial gains and losses that arise are recognised in shareholders designated and qualify as cash ow hedging instruments is recognised in intangible assets is assessed at each balance sheet date for assets are also assessed for indicators of impairment.
In the event that equity and presented in the statement of other comprehensive income in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is impairment and carried at cost less any accumulated impairment an assets carrying amount is determined to be greater than its in the period they arise.
The Group determines the net interest expense recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the recoverable amount, the asset is written down immediately to the on the net dened liability for the year by applying the discount rate carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
used to measure the dened benefit obligation at the beginning of the Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassied to the income calculations are performed based on discounting expected pre-tax annual period to the then net dened benefit liability, taking into statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Gains and losses on disposals are included in the income statement.
cash ows of the relevant cash generating units and discounting these account any changes in the net dened benefit liability during the year When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no at an appropriate discount rate, the determination of which requires the q Taxation as a result of contributions and benefit payment.
Net interest expense longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or exercise of judgement.
Income tax payable on profits is based on the applicable tax law in and other expense related to dened benefit plans are recognised in loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised each jurisdiction and is recognised as an expense in the period in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income which profits arise.
Cash generating units represent the lowest level Details of the Groups retirement benefit obligations are provided in statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary note 33. the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately management purposes.
These are smaller than the Groups reportable differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and transferred to the income statement.
Share-based compensation segments as set out in note 2 as the Group views its reportable their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based Net investment hedge segments on a global basis.
Note 26 sets out the major cashDeferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
been enacted or substantially enacted as at the balance sheet date, in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging and that are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax Acquired intangibles For deferred share awards granted as part of an annual performance instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary or associate, intangible assets award, the expense is recognised over the period from the start of the the translation reserve: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion which are deemed separable and that arise from contractual or other Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future performance period to the vesting date.
For example, the expense for is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses legal rights are capitalised and included within the net identiable taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences awards granted in 2015 in respect of 2014 performance, which vest in accumulated in equity are reclassied to the income statement when assets acquired.
These intangible assets are initially measured at fair can be utilised.
2015-2017, is recognised as an expense over the period from 1 January the foreign operation is disposed of.
value, which reects market expectations of the probability that the 2013 to the vesting dates in 2015-2017.
For all other awards, the Current and deferred tax relating to items which are charged or Further details on the application of these policies are set out in note 17. future economic benets embodied in the asset will ow to the entity, expense is recognised over period from the date of grant to the vesting credited directly to equity, is credited or charged directly to equity and and are amortised on the basis of their expected useful lives 4 to 16 date.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting is subsequently recognised in the income statement together with the years.
At each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments not qualifying for current or deferred gain or loss.
For equity-settled awards, the total amount to be expensed over the indicators of impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options determined to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is Details of the income statement tax charge is produced in note 12 and at the date of grant, which excludes the impact of any non-market o Leases written down immediately.
of deferred taxation in note 28. vesting conditions for example, profitability and growth targets.
The Where a Group company is the lessee Computer software r Provisions fair value of equity instruments granted is based on market prices, if The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognised when available, at the date of grant.
In the absence of market prices, the fair The total payments made under operating leases are charged to the the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of value of the instruments is estimated using an appropriate valuation income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Costs associated with the development of software are capitalised past events: it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be technique, such as a binomial option pricing model.
Non-market where it is probable that it will generate future economic benets in required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of When an operating lease is terminated before the lease period has excess of its cost.
Computer software costs are amortised on the basis estimated.
Where a liability arises based on participation in a market at options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the expired, any payment required to be made to the lessor by way of of expected useful life three to five years.
Costs associated with a specified date such as the UK bank levy, the obligation is recognised Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected penalty is recognised as an expense in the period in which termination maintaining software are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At in the financial statements on that date and is not accrued over the to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if takes place.
each balance sheet date, these assets are assessed for indicators of period.
any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity Where the Group is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets impairment.
In the event that an assets carrying amount is determined over the remaining vesting period.
Forfeitures prior to vesting attributable are capitalised and included in Property, plant and equipment with a to be greater than its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to factors other than the failure to satisfy a non-market vesting corresponding liability to the lessor recognised in Other liabilities.
condition are treated as a cancellation and the remaining unamortised Finance charges payable are recognised over the period of the lease charge is debited to the income statement at the time of cancellation.
