234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 27 Active investment working for you Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The directors confirm that to the best of their Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the knowledge: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with regulations.
the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair Company law requires the directors to prepare financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit statements for each financial year.
Under that law the or loss of the Company: and directors are required to prepare the financial statements in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards development and performance of the business and the as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the position of the Company, together with a description of directors must not approve the financial statements unless the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the faces.
state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code also requires the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial Directors to ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are statements, the directors are required to: fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to reach a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested that the IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Audit Committee advise on whether it considers that the Estimates and Errors, and then apply these consistently: Annual Report and Accounts fulfils these requirements.
The present information, including accounting policies, in a process by which the Committee has reached these manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and conclusions is set out in the Audit Committees report on understandable information: pages 25 to 26.
As a result, the Board has concluded that provide additional disclosures when compliance with the the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014, specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and users to understand the impact of particular provides the information necessary for shareholders to transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys assess the Companys performance, business model and financial position and financial performance: and strategy.
state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements On behalf of the Board comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the John Reeve IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Chairman the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 24 February 2015 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27
