234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:46 Page 34 Active investment working for you Notes to the Financial Statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting Foreign Currency The financial statements have been prepared in accordance The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, because that is the currency of the primary economic which comprise standards and interpretations approved by environment in which the Company operates.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and The primary objective of the Company is to generate International Accounting Standards and Standing returns in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the liquidity of the Company is managed on a day-to-day basis International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that in Sterling as the Companys performance is evaluated in remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been that currency.
Therefore, the directors consider Pounds adopted by the European Union.
Sterling as the currency that most faithfully represents the The principal accounting policies adopted by the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and Company are set out below.
set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted for investment trusts issued by the Association of at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising the recommendations of the SORP.
on translation are recognised in the Statement of All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds Comprehensive Income.
Expenses Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In In order better to reflect the activities of an investment respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by presented within the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the all expenses have been presented as revenue items except Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a as follows: revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
sales of investments designated as fair value through profit or loss are expensed to capital in the Statement of Income Comprehensive Income.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items Companys right to receive payment has been established, where a connection with the maintenance or normally the ex-dividend date.
enhancement of the value of the investments held can Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the management fee and finance costs have been allocated amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount the directors long-term view of the nature of the of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the expected investment returns of the Company.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Special dividends are credited to capital or revenue according to their circumstances.
34 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
