234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:46 Page 34 Active investment working for you Notes to the Financial Statements 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting Foreign Currency The financial statements have been prepared in accordance The financial statements are prepared in Pounds Sterling with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, because that is the currency of the primary economic which comprise standards and interpretations approved by environment in which the Company operates.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and The primary objective of the Company is to generate International Accounting Standards and Standing returns in Pounds Sterling, its capital-raising currency.
The Interpretations Committee interpretations approved by the liquidity of the Company is managed on a day-to-day basis International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that in Sterling as the Companys performance is evaluated in remain in effect, and to the extent that they have been that currency.
Therefore, the directors consider Pounds adopted by the European Union.
Sterling as the currency that most faithfully represents the The principal accounting policies adopted by the economic effects of the underlying transactions, events and Company are set out below.
set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted for investment trusts issued by the Association of at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Investment Companies AIC in January 2009 is consistent Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are with the requirements of IFRS, the directors have sought to translated into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rate ruling prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with on the year-end date.
Foreign exchange differences arising the recommendations of the SORP.
on translation are recognised in the Statement of All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds Comprehensive Income.
Expenses Presentation of Statement of Comprehensive Income All expenses are accounted for on the accruals basis.
In In order better to reflect the activities of an investment respect of the analysis between revenue and capital items trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by presented within the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the all expenses have been presented as revenue items except Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a as follows: revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside Transaction costs which are incurred on the purchases or the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
sales of investments designated as fair value through profit or loss are expensed to capital in the Statement of Income Comprehensive Income.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Expenses are split and presented partly as capital items Companys right to receive payment has been established, where a connection with the maintenance or normally the ex-dividend date.
enhancement of the value of the investments held can Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends be demonstrated and, accordingly, the investment in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the management fee and finance costs have been allocated amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
40% to revenue and 60% to capital, in order to reflect Any excess in the value of shares received over the amount the directors long-term view of the nature of the of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in the expected investment returns of the Company.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Special dividends are credited to capital or revenue according to their circumstances.
34 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:46 Page 35 Active investment working for you Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Receivables Taxation Receivables do not carry any interest, are short-term in The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value as payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated on the taxable profit for the year.
The taxable profit differs irrecoverable amounts.
from profit before tax as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it excludes items of income Investments or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and Investments held at fair value through profit or loss are it further excludes items that are never taxable or initially recognised at fair value, being the consideration deductible.
The Companys liability for current tax is given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs calculated using a blended rate as applicable throughout associated with the investment.
After initial recognition, investments are measured at fair In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the value through profit or loss.
Gains or losses on investments allocation method used to calculate tax relief on expenses measured at fair value through profit or loss are included in presented against capital returns in the supplementary net profit or loss as a capital item and transaction costs on information in the Statement of Comprehensive Income is acquisition or disposal of investments are expensed.
Under this basis, if taxable income is investments that are actively traded in organised financial capable of being entirely offset by expenses in the revenue markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock column of the income statement, then no tax relief is exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business transferred to the capital return column.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of the trade date i. e. the date that the Company commits to assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the purchase or sell an asset.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Financial liabilities and equity instruments method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are according to the substance of the contractual arrangements recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that profits will be available against which deductible temporary evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company differences can be utilised.
after deducting all of its liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled Interest bearing borrowings or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited Interest bearing borrowings, being the debenture stocks and in the revenue return column of the Statement of loan issued by the Company, are initially recognised at a Comprehensive Income, except when it relates to items carrying value equivalent to the proceeds received net of charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
recognition, interest bearing borrowings are subsequently Investment trusts which have approval under Section measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for method.
Irrecoverable withholding tax is recognised on any Payables overseas dividends on an accruals basis using the applicable Payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their rate for the country of origin.
Financial instruments Equity dividends payable Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Equity dividends payable are recognised when the Statement of Financial Position when the Company shareholders right to receive payment is established.
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Company shall offset financial assets and Finance costs financial liabilities if it has a legally enforceable right to set Interest payable on the debenture stocks and loan in issue is off the recognised amounts and interests and intends to accrued on the effective interest rate basis.
In accordance settle on a net basis.
Financial assets and liabilities are with the expected long-term division of returns, 40% of the derecognised when the Company settles its obligations interest for the year is charged to revenue, and the other relating to the instrument.
60% is charged to capital, net of any incremental corporation tax relief.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 35
