234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:47 Page 45 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 immediately.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your ordinary shares in Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC, please forward this document and the accompanying form of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was or is being effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the eighty-ninth Annual General Meeting of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC will be held at 11.00am on Monday 30 March 2015 at Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5HA for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS: 1.
To approve the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 together with the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To approve the report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014.
To declare a final dividend of 23.33p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr A T Copple as a director.
To re-elect Mrs J F fide Moller as a director.
To re-elect Mr R W Jewson as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Reeve as a director.
To re-elect Mr M R Riley as a director.
To re-elect Mr D G C Webster as a director.
To re-appoint the auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: ORDINARY RESOLUTION: 11.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of 1,671,819, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 February 2015, provided that: i the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016 but may be revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting and may be renewed by the Company in general meeting: and ii the said authority shall allow and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares and grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if that authority had not expired.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 45 234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:47 Page 46 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS: 12.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 11 set out above, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 570-573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of that Act for cash, including, for the avoidance of doubt, the sale of shares held by the Company as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority conferred on them by this meeting to allot shares, as if Section 561 i of that Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or the pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on the record date of such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal problems under the law of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory : and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 1,671,819: and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016 save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before this power has expired, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company generally be and is hereby authorised for the purpose of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares is 25p per share: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses payable by the Company which may be paid for such shares shall be 5% above the average of the market value of the share quotations taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made: iv the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016, or, if earlier, the date falling fifteen months from the date of this resolution: v the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board of Directors Woolgate Exchange M K Slade 25 Basinghall Street For Investec Asset Management Limited London EC2V 5HA Secretary 24 February 2015 46 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 ALDERSGATE ST PRINCES ST E ST NEW GAT GRESHAM ST CHEAPSIDE LONDON WALL POULTRY S LOTHBURY BASINGHALL AVE 234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:47 Page 47 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued Shown is a plan of the location of Investec Asset Management Limited, Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall BARBICAN Street, London EC2V 5HA where the Annual General Meeting will be held MOORGATE on Monday 30 March 2015 at 11.00am.
ST PAULS BANK Investec Asset Management NOTES 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the above Section 146 of the Act.
Persons nominated to receive meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend the information rights under Section 146 of the Act who have meeting to speak and vote on a show of hands and, on a been sent a copy of this notice of meeting are hereby poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a informed, in accordance with Section 149 2 of the Act, member of the Company.
A member wishing to appoint that they may have a right under an agreement with the more than one proxy must appoint each proxy in respect registered member by whom they were nominated to be of a specified number of shares within his holding.
For this appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy purpose, a member may photocopy the enclosed Form of for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish Proxy before completion and must indicate the number of to exercise it, they may have a right under such an shares in respect of which each proxy is appointed.
agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Instruments of proxy should be sent to Equiniti Limited, contact the registered member by whom they were Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 nominated in respect of these arrangements.
6DA so as to arrive no later than 11.00am on 26 March 2015.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not 5.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment meeting in person should they wish to do so.
service may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described 3.
Members who hold ordinary shares in the Company in in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other uncertificated form must have been entered on the CREST sponsored members and those CREST members Companys register of members by 6.00pm on 26 March who have appointed a voting service provider s should 2015 in order to be able to attend and vote at the refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s meeting, or if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00pm on the who will be able to take the appropriate action on their day two business days before the time fixed for the behalf.
Such members may only vote at the In order for a proxy appointment made using the CREST meeting in respect of ordinary shares held at the time.
service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in 4.
In accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act accordance with Euroclears specifications and must 2006, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 47 U LONDON WALL T S E C THREADNEEDLE ST QUEEN VICTORIA ST U R G A T I A M Y N R N U B C MILK ST WOOD ST NOBLE ST MOORGATE COL OLD JEWRY MOO LANE N ST E EMA RGAT ST MA R R T I N S WOOD ST FOSTER E L D N A R D KING ST G E E L D W A GUTTER LA B O A R D S T M T NE A S I N Y S R L L A H G U B S N I F 234791 Temple Bar pp30-pp51 25 02 2015 09:47 Page 48 Active investment working for you Notice of meeting continued NOTES CONTINUED contain the information required for such instructions, as 2014 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting described in the CREST Manual available via at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The CREST message must be Company may not require the shareholders requesting transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID any such website publication to pay its expenses in RA19 by not later than 48 hours excluding non-working complying with Sections 527 or 528 requirements as to days before the time appointed for the holding of the website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Where meeting or the adjourned meeting.
For this purpose, the the Company is required to place a statement on a time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, by the timestamp applied to the CREST message by the it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is not later than the time when it makes the statement able to retrieve the CREST message by enquiry to CREST available on the website.
The business which may be in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any dealt with at the Annual General Meeting for the change of instructions to proxies appointed through relevant financial year includes any statement that the CREST should be communicated to the appointee through Company has been required under Section 527 of the other means.
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, should note that 8.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may Euroclear does not make available special procedures in authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings at the AGM.
In accordance with the provisions of the and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST corporation could exercise if it were an individual member member s is are a CREST personal member or sponsored of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a procure that the CREST sponsor or voting service provider designated corporate representative.
takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a CREST message is transmitted by means of the CREST 9.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or any purposes other than those expressly stated.
voting service provider s is are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical 10.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company must cause to be answered any The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy such question relating to the business being dealt with at instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 6.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy, information, b the answer has already been given on a you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is visiting www.
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed at the top right-hand side of the Form of Proxy.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Company.
Limiteds online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy at www.
As at 24 February 2015, the latest practicable date prior to instructions are given on both websites.
To be valid, your publication of this document, the Company had proxy appointment s and instructions should reach 66,872,765 ordinary shares in issue with a total of Equiniti Limited no later than 11am on Thursday 26 March 66,872,765 voting rights.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 7.
Shareholders should note that, under Section 527 of the 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold total number of shares in respect of which members are requirements set out in that section have the right to entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if require the Company to publish on a website a statement applicable, any members statements, members setting out any matter relating to: resolutions or members matters of business received by i the audit of the Companys accounts including the the Company after the date of this notice will be available auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to on the Companys website: be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the www.
financial year beginning 1 January 2014: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year 1 January 48 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
