FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a BASIS OF PREPARATION The Company is incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis inaccordance with IFRS as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Thefinancial statements have been presented in UK Sterling, the functional currency of the Company, on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, as explained below.
All amounts have been rounded to the nearest one million pounds, unless otherwise stated.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
On 26 June 2013 the Group completed the CPW Europe Acquisition for a net consideration of 471m, at which point CPW Europe became a100% owned subsidiary of the Group.
In these financial statements, CPW Europe is treated as a joint venture prior to 26 June 2013 andawholly owned subsidiary from 26 June 2013 onwards.
In prior periods the Group reported to a financial year end of 31 March.
CPW Europe reports to a retail calendar, whereby its year-end date is normally the Saturday closest to 31 March.
"Following the CPW Europe Acquisition the Group is reporting to the same retail calendar as CPW Europe and has consequently prepared financial statements forthe period from 1 April 2013 to 29 March 2014 the ""year ended 29 March 2014""."
GOING CONCERN Note 25 to the financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes for managing its exposure to liquidity risk.
In their consideration of going concern, the directors have reviewed the Groups future cash forecasts and profit projections, which are based onmarket data and past experience.
This review considered the implications of the CPW Europe Acquisition during the year, including the effect on forecast cash flows and changes to the Groups financing facilities.
The directors are of the opinion that the Groups forecasts and projections, which take into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group is able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future.
In arriving at their conclusion that the Group has adequate financial resources, the directors were mindful that the Group has a robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management and that it is financed through facilities, excluding overdrafts repayable on demand, totalling a maximum of 650m of which 360m was undrawn at 29 March 2014 committed to April 2017.
The Groups operations are financed by these committed facilities further described in note 19, retained profits and equity.
Accordingly the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for theforeseeable future and consequently the directors continue to apply the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
JOINT VENTURES Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the Groups joint ventures to bring accounting policies used intoline with those used by the Group.
The accounting policies below also relate to those applied to the Groups joint ventures.
b BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company itssubsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial andoperating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
c FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS Material transactions in foreign currencies are hedged using forward purchases or sales of the relevant currencies and are recognised in the financial statements at the exchange rates thus obtained.
Unhedged transactions are recorded at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Material monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are hedged, mainly using forward foreign exchange contracts to create matching liabilities and assets, and are retranslated at each balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement has been applied by marking to market the relevant financial instruments at the balance sheet date and recognising the gain or loss in reserves in respect of cash flow hedges, and through profit or loss inrespect of fair value hedges.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average foreign exchange rates for the year, and their balance sheets are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill is held in the currency of the operation to which it relates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of net assets, goodwill and results of overseas operations are recognised in the translation reserve.
All other exchange differences are included in profit or loss in the year in which they arise except as follows: where the Group designates financial instruments held for the purpose of hedging the foreign currency exposures that result frommaterial transactions undertaken in foreign currencies as cash flow hedges, hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is applied.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss.
In the event that a foreign operation is disposed of, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in profit or loss is determined after taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences that are attributable to the operation.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 64 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued c FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND TRANSACTIONS continued The principal exchange rates against UK Sterling used in these financial statements are as follows: Average Closing 2014 2013 2014 2013 Euro 1.19 1.22 1.21 1.19 Swedish Krona 10.36 10.56 10.82 9.91 d REVENUE All revenue is stated net of VAT and other sales-related taxes.
The following accounting policies are applied to the various revenue-generating activities in which the Group is engaged: revenue arising on the sale of mobile and other products and services is recognised when the relevant products or services are provided: commission receivable on sales, being commission which is contractually committed, and for which there are no ongoing performance criteria, is recognised when the sales to which the commission relates are made, net of any provision for promotional offers and network operator performance penalties.
Commission includes a share of customer airtime spend, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and there are no ongoing service obligations see Use of critical accounting estimates and assumptions in note 1u.
Where the time value of money has a material impact, an appropriate discount is applied such that revenue is recognised at an amount equal to the present value of the future consideration received: other ongoing revenue is recognised as it is earned over the lives of the relevant customers: volume bonuses receivable from network operators are recognised when the conditions on which they are earned have been met: volume bonuses received from suppliers of products are recognised as an offset to product cost when the conditions on which they are earned have been met, and are recognised within cost of sales when the products to which the volume bonuses relate have been sold: insurance premiums are typically paid either monthly or quarterly in advance.
Sales commission paid by third parties is recognised when theinsurance policies to which it relates are sold, to the extent that it can be reliably measured and there are no ongoing service obligations.
Insurance premium income for the provision of ongoing insurance services is recognised over the lives of the relevant policies: revenue from the sale of prepaid credits is deferred until the customer uses the airtime or the credit expires: revenue generated from the provision of fixed and mobile network services is recognised as it is earned over the lives of the relevant customers: rental income from investment property is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease: consultancy income is recognised as the services are provided: and all other revenue is recognised when the relevant goods or services are provided.
e SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant, and expensed over the vesting period, basedonanestimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Binomial model for share-based payments with internal performance criteria such as EPS targets anda Monte Carlo model for those with external performance criteria such as TSR targets.
For schemes with internal performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is recalculated at each balance sheet date, based on expectations of performance against target and of leavers prior to vesting.
The movement in cumulative expense since theprevious balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in reserves.
For schemes with external performance criteria, the number of options expected to vest is adjusted only for expectations of leavers priortovesting.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, withacorresponding entry in reserves.
If a share-based payment scheme is cancelled, any remaining part of the fair value of the scheme is expensed through the income statement.
If a share-based payment scheme is forfeited, no further expense is recognised and any charges previously recognised through the income statement are reversed.
Charges also arise on loans that are provided to employees to fund the purchase of shares as part of long-term incentive plans, totheextent to which the loans are not, in certain circumstances, repayable: the cost of the relevant part of such loans is expensed overthe course of the relevant incentive plans.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued f PENSIONS Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they become payable in accordance with therules of the schemes.
g DIVIDENDS Dividend income is recognised when payment has been received.
Final dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the year in which they are approved by shareholders.
Interim and other dividends are recognised in the year in which they are paid.
h LEASES Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership tothelessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
THE GROUP AS LESSOR Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
THE GROUP AS LESSEE Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet asa finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance expenses are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see note 1r.
Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred.
Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives and rent-free periods are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are amortised through the income statement over the period of the lease.
i TAXATION Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates andlaws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet anditstaxbase.
Deferred tax liabilities represent tax payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets represent taxrecoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax losses and credits.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement except where it relates to an item recognised directly inreserves, in which case it is recognised directly in reserves.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legal right to do so in the relevant jurisdictions.
j GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is recognised initially as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
At the acquisition date, goodwill is allocated to each of the CGUs expected to benefit from the combination and held in the currency of the operations to which the goodwill relates.
Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently where there is an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the future cash flows of the CGUs to which the goodwill relates.
Where the future cash flows are less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, the relevant goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 66 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued j GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued SOFTWARE AND LICENCES Software and licences includes internal infrastructure and design costs incurred in the development of software for internal use.
Internally generated software is recognised as an intangible asset only if it can be separately identified, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits, and the development cost can be measured reliably.
Where these conditions are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Software and licences are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives of up to eight years.
KEY MONEY Key money paid to enter a property is stated at cost, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is provided on key money at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over ten years or the lease term if less.
ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES Acquisition intangibles include customer relationships and brands arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition.
These intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives of up to eight years for customer relationships and up to ten years for brands.
The value attributed to such assets is based onthe future economic benefit that is expected to be derived from them, calculated asthe present value of future cash flows after adeduction for contributory assets.
k PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Anygain orloss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or loss.
Depreciation is provided for on all property, plant and equipment excluding land at rates calculated so as to write off the cost, less theestimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life from the date it is brought into use.
Ratesapplied to different classes of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Short leasehold costs: 10% per annum or the lease term if less Network equipment and computer hardware: 12.550% per annum Fixtures and fittings: 2025% per annum Investment property property held to earn rental income and or for capital appreciation is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and provisions for impairment.
Depreciation is applied at 24% per annum.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
l RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined hadno impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately intheincome statement.
m INVESTMENTS Investments, other than subsidiaries and joint ventures, are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given plus any transaction costs associated with the acquisition.
Investments are categorised as available-for-sale and are then recorded at fair value.
Changes in fair value, together with any related taxation, are taken directly to reserves, and recycled to the income statement when the investment is sold or determined to be impaired.
n INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The consolidated income statement includes the Groups share ofthe post-tax profits or losses of the joint ventures based on their financial statements for the year.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the Groups interests in joint ventures are shown as a non-current asset in the balance sheet, representing the Groups investment in the share capital of the joint ventures, as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets or liabilities less provision for any impairment.
Any associated goodwill is included within the carrying value of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Where a joint venture has net liabilities, any loans advanced to it are included in the Groups equity-accounted investment in it.
Where ajoint venture has net assets, any loans advanced to it are shown separately in the balance sheet, as a receivable to the Group.
o ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if it is highly probable that they will be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the assets or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Such assets, or disposal groups, are generally measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment loss on a non-current asset or disposal group is allocated first to goodwill, and then to the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is booked to stock, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefits assets or investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups other accounting policies.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent gains and losses on re-measurement are recognised in profit or loss.
Once classified as held for sale, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are no longer amortised or depreciated, and any equity-accounted investee is no longer equity accounted.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued p STOCK Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost, net of discounts and volume bonuses from product suppliers seenote 1d, includes all direct costs incurred in bringing stock to its present location and condition and represents finished goods and goods for resale.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
q CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents represent cash on hand, demand deposits and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
r LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS Loans and other borrowings in the Group's balance sheet represent committed and uncommitted bank loans.
Loans and other borrowings in the balance sheets of joint ventures represent committed and uncommitted bank loans and loans from shareholders other than the Group.
Bank fees and legal costs associated with the securing of external financing are ordinarily capitalised and amortised over the term ofthe relevant facility.
Borrowing costs associated with qualifying assets are included in the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
s PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when a legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of past events and it is probable that an outflow ofresources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions arediscounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
Provisions fall into the following categories: SALES Sales provisions relate to cash-back and similar promotions, product warranties, product returns, and network operator performance penalties.
The anticipated costs of these items are assessed by reference to historical trends and any other information that is considered tobe relevant.
REORGANISATION Reorganisation provisions relate principally to redundancy costs, the costs of onerous leases and other onerous contracts, and are only recognised where plans are demonstrably committed and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken atthebalance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised in respect of future operating losses.
OTHER Other provisions relate to warranties provided in relation to the Best Buy Joint Venture Transaction, dilapidations and similar property costs, andall other provisions, principally being the anticipated costs of unresolved tax issues and legal disputes, the expected costs ofinsurance claims, and costs associated withonerous contracts.
All such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
t HEADLINE RESULTS Headline results are stated before the results of discontinued businesses, including those within joint ventures, any exceptional items that are considered to be one-off and so material that they require separate disclosure to avoid distortion of underlying performance, and the amortisation of acquisition intangibles.
u CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements are continually reviewed and revised as necessary.
Whilstevery effort is made to ensure that such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, by their nature they are uncertain, andassuch changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material impact.
The principal items in the financial statements where changes in estimates and assumptions may have a material impact are as follows: RECOVERABLE AMOUNT OF NON-CURRENT ASSETS All non-current assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, are reviewed for potential impairment using estimates of the future economic benefits attributable to them.
Any estimates of future economic benefits made in relation to non-current assets may differ from the benefits that ultimately arise and materially affect the recoverable value of the asset.
Further details on the key assumptions utilised inassessing the carrying value are provided in note 10.
ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING Accounting for the CPW Europe Acquisition involved the use of assumptions in relation to the future cash flows associated with acquisition intangibles, and the use of valuation techniques in order to arrive at the fair value of the other non-current assets and liabilities acquired.
The assumptions applied were based on the best information available to management and valuation techniques were supported by third party valuation experts.
Nevertheless, the actual performance of these assets and liabilities may differ from the valuations derived through this exercise.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 68 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued u CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY continued TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Provisions for irrecoverable receivables are based on extensive historical evidence and the best available information in relation tospecific issues, but are unavoidably dependent on future events.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Commission receivable on sales depends for certain transactions on customer behaviour after the point of sale.
Assumptions are therefore required, particularly in relation to levels of customer default within the contract period, expected levels of customer spend, and customer behaviour beyond the initial contract period.
Such assumptions are based on extensive historical evidence, and provision is made for the risk of potential changes in customer behaviour, but they are nonetheless inherently uncertain.
Changes in estimates recognised as anincrease to revenue may be made, where for example more reliable information is available, and any such changes are required to be recognised in the income statement.
Changes of estimates during the year ended 29 March 2014 in relation to commission receivable after the initial contract term for sales originating in previous years totalled 18m 2013: 21m.
The total value of ongoing revenues receivable at 29 March 2014 was 525m.
Thevalue of ongoing revenues receivable within CPW Europe at 31 March 2013 was 550m.
CURRENT TAXATION The complex nature of tax legislation across the tax jurisdictions in which the Group and its joint ventures operate necessitates theuse ofmany estimates and assumptions, where the outcome may differ from that assumed.
DEFERRED TAXATION The extent to which tax losses can be utilised depends on the extent to which taxable profits are generated in the relevant jurisdictions inthe foreseeable future, and on the tax legislation then in force, and as such the value of associated deferred tax assets is uncertain.
PROVISIONS The Groups provisions are based on the best information available to management at the balance sheet date.
However, thefuture costs assumed are inevitably only estimates, which may differ from those ultimately incurred.
Provisions relating to the disposal of excess property necessitate assumptions in respect of the period to disposal and exit costs, which may differ from the ultimate cost of disposal.
v RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS In the current year the Group has applied for the first time certain new standards and interpretations, with only IFRS 13 and Amendments to IAS 1 affecting the Group.
The impact of the application of these standards is as follows: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal or most advantageous market under current market conditions.
Other than the additional disclosures, the application of IFRS 13 has not had any material impact on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income requires certain groupings of items presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Items that will be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss in the future are presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective, and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU: IAS 36 amended Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets IAS 39 amended Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended Investment Entities IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC 21 Levies A detailed review of the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations will be performed in due course: however the directors do not currently expect that they will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2 OPERATING SEGMENTS a BASIS FOR SEGMENTATION IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that operating segments mirror the segments that are routinely reviewed by the Board, andwhich are used to manage performance and allocate resources.
Following the acquisition of CPW Europe, the Group's wholly owned operations consist of two segments, being the UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe comprising operations in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden.
This classification is consistent with the management structure of the Group, and the way in which information is reported to the Board.
Connected World Services, our B2B business, is not considered to be a separate segment since its operations are currently integrated with those of our retail business in each market, and are therefore not separable.
Virgin Mobile France has previously been reported separately as it has a distinct and separate management team and discrete financial information.
In light of the Group's intention to sell this business, Virgin Mobile France is now reported as a discontinued operation and its results are therefore excluded from the segmental results analysis below.
Details of its profits and losses are provided in note 24.
The Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: Reportable segment Operations UK and Ireland Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services in the UK and Ireland Mainland Europe Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services in Mainland Europe CPW Europe Retail, distribution, insurance and telecoms services when held by the Group as a joint venture Virgin Mobile France MVNO b SEGMENTAL RESULTS Segmental results for continuing operations are analysed as follows: Joint ventures CPW see note 24 CPW Europe Virgin UK and Mainland to 26 June Mobile Ireland Europe 2013 France Unallocated Total 2014 m m m m m m Headline revenue 1,470 1,035 2,505 Headline EBIT before share of results of joint ventures 126 7 133 Share of Headline results of joint ventures post-tax 3 3 Headline EBIT 126 7 3 136 Exceptional items 11 4 15 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 10 6 16 French operations in process of closure 6 23 29 Statutory EBIT segment results 105 9 20 76 Assets 1,841 455 11 2,307 Liabilities 828 309 290 1,427 Net assets 1,013 146 11 290 880 Capital expenditure 60 8 68 Unallocated liabilities reflect the loans and other borrowings of the Group.
Non-Headline revenue of 71m 2013: nil relates to operations in France.
See note 4 for further details.
Included within UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe revenue is income from two MNOs of approximately 450m and 400m respectively.
No other customers or MNOs represent more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 70 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 OPERATING SEGMENTS continued b SEGMENTAL RESULTS continued Joint ventures CPW see note 24 Virgin UK and CPW Mobile Ireland Europe France Total 2013 restated m m m m Revenue 11 11 Headline EBIT before share of results of joint ventures 3 3 Share of Headline results of joint ventures post-tax 48 48 Headline EBIT 3 48 51 Share of joint venture exceptional items post-tax 5 5 French operations in process of closure 45 45 Statutory EBIT segment results 3 2 1 Assets 148 524 13 685 Liabilities 24 24 Net assets 124 524 13 661 Capital expenditure See note 4 for further details.
Transactions between segments are on an arms length basis.
c GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION The geographical information below further analyses the Groups revenue and non-current assets.
Revenue and non-current assets areallocated based on the location of customers and assets.
2014 2013 i Headline revenue m m United Kingdom 1,402 11 Netherlands 127 Spain 386 Germany 395 Other 195 2,505 11 Non-Headline revenue of 71m 2013: nil relates to French retail operations, which are in the process of closure.
2014 2013 ii Non-current assets m m United Kingdom 779 552 Netherlands 60 Spain 60 Germany 26 Other 27 13 952 565 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3 PROFIT LOSS BEFORE INTEREST AND TAXATION Profit loss before interest and taxation is stated after charging crediting the following: 2014 2013 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18 1 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 Amortisation of other intangibles 16 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1 Impairment of trade receivables 19 Impairment of stock 38 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 Investment property rental income 2 6 Cost of stock recognised as an expense 1,782 Net rental expense 88 Share-based payments expense 4 Other employee costs see note 5 284 5 Auditors remuneration comprises the following: 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for their audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.3 Tax advisory services 0.5 Tax compliance services 0.2 Other assurance services 0.6 2.7 0.1 The Groups share of audit fees in the year for joint ventures was 0.1m 2013: 0.5m and the Groups share of fees for their taxandother services was 0.1m 2013: 0.2m.
Other assurance services for the year ended 29 March 2014 relate primarily to the CPW Europe Acquisition, in respect of which the external auditors acted as reporting accountant.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 72 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 NONHEADLINE ITEMS Non-Headline items comprise: i French operations The results, including closure provisions, of the Group's French retail business, which is in the process of closure.
ii CPW Europe Acquisition Exceptional items associated with the transaction.
iii CPW Europe Reorganisation Exceptional items incurred in the prior year in relation to restructuring activity within CPW Europe.
iv Amortisation of acquisition intangibles Amortisation of acquisition intangibles, relating principally to the CPW Europe Acquisition.
The items above have affected the results of both the wholly owned Group and the Group's joint ventures and are analysed as follows: Restated 2014 2013 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue: French operations i 71 Cost of sales: French operations i 48 Operating expenses: French operations i 29 CPW Europe Acquisition ii 15 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles iv 16 60 Share of results of joint ventures post-tax : French operations i 23 45 CPW Europe Reorganisation iii 5 23 50 Taxation: CPW Europe Acquisition ii 3 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles iv 3 6 Loss for the year from continuing operations 54 50 Discontinued operations: Amortisation of joint venture acquisition intangibles 1 Loss for the year 54 51 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4 NONHEADLINE ITEMS continued i FRENCH OPERATIONS In light of an increasingly challenging market context, CPW Europe commenced an exit from the French retail market in April 2013.
The exit costs and results of this business during this process have been excluded from Headline earnings, with comparatives restated on the same basis.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, a pre-tax charge of 7m was booked in relation to redundancies, lease exit costs and other cash restructuring costs relating to approximately 75 stores which the business had committed to exit at the year end.
In addition, the goodwill associated with the French business was written off during the same period, alongside various other non-current assets in the business.
Together with asset write-downs associated with store closures that were committed during the year, total non-cash asset write-downs of 94m were booked in the year.
A tax credit of 5m was booked against these charges, principally reflecting the fide-recognition of deferred taxliabilities.
CPW Europes French operations recorded an EBIT of 8m in the year ended 31 March 2013, against which a tax charge of 1m was recognised.
The Groups post-tax share of these restructuring costs, asset write-downs and operating results was 45m.
In the year ended 29 March 2014, prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition and in light of the commitment to exit the business, CPW Europe recorded further non-cash asset write-downs of 8m, and provided 32m for estimated future exit costs, principally covering redundancies and lease exit costs.
Operating losses of 10m were incurred prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition, resulting from the challenging environment that prompted the decision to exit the French market, together with the effects of the announcement of this decision.
A tax credit of 3m was recognised against these items.
The Groups post-tax share of these restructuring costs, asset write-downs and operating results was 23m.
Since the CPW Europe Acquisition, the French business incurred further EBIT losses of 6m, representing gross margin of 23m and operating expenses of 29m.
Following our initial decision to exit the French retail market, it has become apparent that there is an opportunity to develop a new Connected World Services business in France, focusing initially on leveraging our French insurance business, as we did following our exit from retail operations in Belgium.
Since the year end, we have put in place a team to develop this business, which has already secured its first two third party clients and is actively engaged in tenders for other business.
While the value of the run-off base, in the absence of the retail infrastructure to support it, is clearly uncertain, we will aim to use it to grow the Connected World Services business as part of continuing operations going forward and will present this within Headline results.
ii CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION The CPW Europe Acquisition gave rise to a number of exceptional items.
Operating expenses include banking and professional fees of 7m in relation to the transaction.
Additionally, as a result of the transaction, a number of incentive schemes could not be maintained in their existing form, and they were either allowed to vest early or were replaced during the year.
This resulted in cash costs of 8m and an acceleration of non-cash accounting charges of 3m.
A tax credit of 3m has been recognised in respect of these costs.
The CPW Europe Acquisition required the Group to fair value its existing 50% interest in CPW Europe, which was considered to be equal tothe 500m gross consideration for Best Buys 50% interest, giving rise to a non-cash gain of 1m.
Arrangements with Best Buy allowed the Group to manage the disposal of the Consideration Shares issued to Best Buy, and to benefit from any gain on disposal above a share price of 1.90.
The Consideration Shares were placed at a price of 2.44, resulting in a net cash gain of 23m for the Group.
The gain implied by comparing the share price at completion, being 2.38, and 1.90, is treated as an adjustment to consideration see note 23 and the remaining gain of 2m is recorded in the income statement.
iii CPW EUROPE REORGANISATION During the prior year, CPW Europe undertook a review of its UK and group operations, with a view to simplifying group functions and giving more autonomy and accountability to individual business units.
CPW Europe also initiated plans to reduce its store portfolio and operating cost base across certain Mainland European markets.
As a result of this exercise, the business booked an exceptional charge of 18m in relation to redundancies, lease exit costs and other cash restructuring costs.
A tax credit of 7m was recognised against these charges, principally in respect of relief anticipated on cash reorganisation costs and the fide-recognition of deferred tax liabilities.
The Groups post-tax share of these charges was 5m.
iv AMORTISATION OF ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES A charge of 16m arose during the year in relation to acquisition intangibles arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition, against which a tax credit of 3m has been recognised.
Amortisation in the prior year within discontinued operations relates to acquisition intangibles within Virgin Mobile France which arose onthe acquisition of Tele2 France in December 2009.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 74 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHAREBASED PAYMENTS a EMPLOYEE COSTS The aggregate remuneration recognised in the income statement in each year is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Salaries and performance bonuses 246 4 Social security costs 34 1 Other pension costs 4 284 5 Share-based payments 4 288 5 The average number of employees including directors during the year ended 29 March 2014 was: 2014 2013 Administration 1,464 22 Sales and customer management 7,243 8,707 22 Compensation earned by key management, comprising the Board of directors and senior executives, was as follows: 2014 2013 m m Salaries 4 2 Performance bonuses 4 1 Social security costs 2 Share-based payments 1 11 3 During the year loans were advanced to key management to cover the tax arising on the exercise of share options that vested as part of the CPW Europe Acquisition.
In addition, loans were advanced to members of key management in relation to the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
At 29 March 2014 loans to key management in relation to these schemes totalled 10m 2013: 1m.
Interest is charged on loans at market rates and interest of 0.3m 2013: nil has been recognised during the year ended 29 March 2014. b SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS i CARPHONE WAREHOUSE SHARE PLAN During the year the Group introduced the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan which allows participants to share 10% of the incremental value created in CPW in excess of an opening value assessed over a three month period prior to approval by shareholders in June 2013 and beyond an annual rate of return of 7% on invested capital.
The plan is underpinned by a minimum annual compound TSR growth of 5% and outperformance of the median TSR of the FTSE 250.
Participants acquired at market value participation shares in a subsidiary company that holds the Companys interests in CPW Europe.
The Group granted loans to participants at a commercial rate of interest to acquire the shares.
Loans are ordinarily repayable in full if performance conditions are met.
The performance of the scheme will ordinarily be measured in or around June 2017, when 60% of the shares vest, with 40% deferred for a further year.
When the awards vest, the value of the shares held by participants will be based on the incremental value if any of CPW in excess of the opening valuation together with the minimum return on invested capital.
These shares will then be purchased by the Company for cash and or the Companys ordinary shares.
A bad leaver will be required to transfer the participation shares to such party as the Company designates for an amount equal to the total amount outstanding under the loan.
If the market value of the shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay 20% of the shortfall out of their own resources.
A participant shall be a good leaver at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee and may be permitted to retain an award notwithstanding the termination of their employment.
The mechanics of the plan may be varied by the Remuneration Committee if necessary to ensure that participants are neither advantaged nordisadvantaged by a variation of the share capital of the Company, bona fide merger, reconstruction or similar reorganisation.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHAREBASED PAYMENTS continued b SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued ii SHARE OPTION SCHEMES During the year the Group introduced the Carphone Warehouse Share Scheme which allows nil-priced options to be offered to senior employees who are not participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
Options were first granted under the scheme in January 2014.
The options are subject to continuing employment and are subject to performance conditions based on a combination of absolute TSR performance and relative TSR performance against the FTSE 250.
Prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition, CPW Europe had a share option scheme, under which participants received options over A shares in NewCPW and each of Best Buy and the Company had an obligation to acquire 50% of these shares at a value based on the Headline PBT of CPW Europe over the vesting period.
The pool was based on earnings in excess of minimum growth targets, against the earnings for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Company and Best Buy agreed a minimum value of the pool, in recognition of the value that had already accrued inthe scheme in relation to Best Buy Mobile.
In order to align the interests of participants with those of the Company, the value of the A shares in New CPW were assessed at defined points during the vesting period, and nil-priced options over shares in the Company were granted to participants through the Participation Plan to match this value, so that participants benefited from any growth in the market capitalisation of the Company during the vesting period.
Further to the CPW Europe Acquisition the Remuneration Committee allowed the scheme to vest based on performance achieved to 31 March 2013.
In addition to the Groups obligations under the scheme the Group also agreed to satisfy Best Buys obligations under the scheme.
The Company issued 14m shares in relation to these obligations.
"The following table summarises the number and weighted average exercise price ""WAEP"" of share options for these schemes: 2014 2013 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5 Granted during the year 18 7 Lapsed during the year 2 Exercised during the year 14 Outstanding at the end of the year 9 5 Exercisable at the end of the year Options exercised during the year were exercised at a weighted average market price of 2.48."
All options outstanding at the end of the year were nil-priced and had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 9.8 years.
iii SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME During the year the Group introduced a Save As You Earn scheme which allows participants to save up to 250 per month for either three or five years.
At the end of the savings period participants can purchase shares in the Company based on a discounted share price determined at the commencement of the scheme.
The following table summarises the number and WAEP of share options for these schemes: 2014 2013 Number WAEP Number WAEP million million Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted during the year 3 2.24 Outstanding at the end of the year 3 2.24 Exercisable at the end of the year All options outstanding at the end of the year had an exercise price of 2.24.
Options outstanding at the end of the year had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.9 years.
iv JOINT VENTURE INCENTIVE SCHEMES Virgin Mobile France has issued market-priced and nil-priced share options in Virgin Mobile France to certain employees of the business.
These options vest over periods of two to four years.
v FAIR VALUE MODEL The fair value of options with external performance targets was estimated at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model.
The model combines the market price of a share at the date of grant with the probability of meeting performance criteria, based on the historical performance of Carphone Warehouse and Old Carphone Warehouse shares.
vi CHARGE TO INCOME STATEMENT AND ENTRIES IN RESERVES During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group recognised a non-cash accounting charge to profit and loss of 4m 2013: nil in respect of equity settled share-based payments, which is offset by an entry through reserves.
This entry is offset in reserves by the non-recourse element of loans provided to participants in the Carphone Warehouse Share Plan.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 76 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 EMPLOYEE COSTS AND SHAREBASED PAYMENTS continued c EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUST The Group has an ESOT, which held 4.9m shares in the Company at 29 March 2014 2013: 0.04m for the benefit of the employees of the Group.
The maximum number of shares held by the Groups ESOT during the year was 4.9m, from July 2013 to March 2014 2013: 0.2m, from April 2012 to August 2012, which represented 0.9% 2013: 0.04% of the Companys issued share capital.
The ESOT has waived its rights to receive dividends and its shares have not been allocated to specific schemes.
At 29 March 2014 the shares had a market value of 16.3m 2013: 0.1m.
6 INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE Interest income is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Interest on cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Interest and other finance income from joint ventures 1 1 Unwind of discounts on trade receivables 6 8 2 Interest expense is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 11 Interest on deferred consideration 1 Other interest expense 5 17 7 CORPORATION TAX a AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS The corporation tax charge comprises: 2014 2013 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 10 Overseas tax 3 13 Adjustments made in respect of prior years: UK corporation tax 1 Overseas tax 6 5 Total current tax 8 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 1 Total deferred tax 11 1 Total tax charge 19 1 The standard rate of corporation tax reduced from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 in accordance with the Finance Act 2012.
In addition, the Finance Act 2013 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, further reducing the standard rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The reduced rates have been reflected in the calculation of deferred tax.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 7 CORPORATION TAX continued b RECONCILIATION OF EFFECTIVE TAX RATE The Groups effective rate of tax before non-Headline items for the year ended 29 March 2014 is 20%.
The principal differences between the total tax charge shown above and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23% 2013: 24% to profit loss before taxation are as follows: Restated NonRestated NonRestated Headline Headline Statutory Headline Headline Statutory 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 m m m m m m Profit loss before taxation 127 60 67 53 50 3 Income tax expense at 23% 2013: 24% 29 14 15 13 12 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 3 12 1 1 Items attracting no tax relief or liability 2 11 13 13 12 1 Movement in unprovided deferred tax 1 1 Exceptional write-off of tax assets and liabilities 1 1 Change in tax rate 4 1 3 Total tax charge credit 25 6 19 1 1 Items attracting no tax relief or liability in the current year relate primarily to French operations, while items attracting no relief or liability in the prior year relate primarily to results of joint ventures, the Group's share of which is reported within profit before taxation on a post-tax basis.
c MOVEMENTS ON DEFERRED TAX BALANCES Deferred tax balances recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the year are as follows: CPW Recognised Recognised Opening Europe directly in in profit or Closing balance Acquisition equity loss balance 2014 m m m m m Temporary differences on capitalised costs 27 6 21 Carried forward tax losses 3 3 Other temporary differences 1 14 2 5 12 Deferred tax assets liabilities 1 44 2 11 36 Recognised Opening in profit or Closing balance loss balance 2013 m m m Temporary differences on capitalised costs Carried forward tax losses Other temporary differences 2 1 1 Deferred tax assets liabilities 2 1 1 Deferred tax comprises the following balances: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets 54 1 Deferred tax liabilities 18 36 1 d UNRECOGNISED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES At 29 March 2014, the Group had approximately 69m 2013: 24m of unused tax losses available for offset against future taxable profits.
Themajority of these losses are within CPW Europe, which were acquired through the CPW Europe Acquisition.
Adeferred tax asset of 3m 2013: nil has been recognised in respect of these unused losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to lack of certainty regarding the availability of future taxable profits.
Such losses are only recognised in the financial statements tothe extent that it is considered more likely than not that sufficient future taxable profits will be available for offset.
There were no temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities had not been recognised at the end of either year.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 78 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 RECONCILIATION OF HEADLINE RESULTS TO STATUTORY RESULTS Profit loss Profit loss Profit loss before Profit loss from from Net interest and before continuing discontinued profit loss taxation taxation operations operations for the year 2014 m m m m m Headline results 136 127 102 102 Exceptional items 15 15 12 12 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 16 13 13 French operations in process of closure 29 29 29 29 Statutory results 76 67 48 48 See note 4 for further details.
Profit loss Profit loss Profit loss before Profit loss from from Net interest and before continuing discontinued profit loss taxation taxation operations operations for the year 2013 restated m m m m m Headline results 51 53 52 3 55 Share of joint venture exceptional items post-tax 5 5 5 5 French operations in process of closure 45 45 45 45 Share of discontinued joint venture amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1 1 Statutory results 1 3 2 2 4 See note 4 for further details.
Headline information is provided because the directors consider that it provides assistance in understanding the Groups .
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE a PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS The calculation of both basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders: Restated 2014 2013 m m Headline earnings Continuing operations 102 52 Discontinued operations 3 Total 102 55 Statutory earnings Continuing operations 48 2 Discontinued operations 2 Total 48 4 b WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following weighted average number of ordinary shares, withthe number of shares used for the diluted calculation being adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and other incentive schemes: 2014 2013 million million Weighted average number of shares Average shares in issue 558 473 Less average holding by Group ESOT 3 For basic earnings per share 555 473 Dilutive effect of share options and other incentive schemes 7 6 For diluted earnings per share 562 479 The average market value of the Companys shares for the purpose of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was based on quoted market prices for the year during which the options were outstanding.
The number of shares in issue at 29 March 2014 was 576m, of which 5m were held by the Groups ESOT.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9 EARNINGS PER SHARE continued c BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share pence pence 2014 2013 2014 2013 Headline earnings Continuing operations 18.4p 10.9p 18.1p 10.8p Discontinued operations 0.0p 0.7p 0.0p 0.7p Total 18.4p 11.6p 18.1p 11.5p Statutory earnings Continuing operations 8.6p 0.3p 8.5p 0.3p Discontinued operations 0.0p 0.6p 0.0p 0.6p Total 8.6p 0.9p 8.5p 0.9p 10 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Software Customer Intangible and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill Cost m m m m m Balance at 1 April 2013 CPW Europe Acquisition 54 56 10 120 484 Additions 48 48 Foreign exchange 3 Balance at 29 March 2014 102 56 10 168 481 Software Customer Intangible and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses m m m m m Balance at 1 April 2013 Amortisation 16 14 2 32 Balance at 29 March 2014 16 14 2 32 Software Customer Intangible and licences relationships Brands assets Goodwill Carrying amounts m m m m m At 31 March 2013 At 29 March 2014 86 42 8 136 481 Software and licences include assets with a cost of 14m 2013: nil on which amortisation has not been charged as the assets have not yet been brought into use.
"i ALLOCATION OF GOODWILL TO CGUs The goodwill arising on the CPW Europe Acquisition was allocated to the Groups cash generating units ""CGUs"" which were expected tobenefit from the acquisition, based on value in use calculations."
At 29 March 2014 goodwill was allocated to CGUs as follows: m UK 406 Netherlands 36 Spain 31 Ireland 8 481 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 80 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued ii GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations or fair market value as appropriate.
The Group prepared cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets and long-term plans approved by management and extrapolated cash flows in perpetuity based on country-specific growth rates.
The cash flow forecasts reflect managements expectations of EBITDA, capital expenditure and working capital, all of which are based on historical patterns and expectations of future market developments.
Other key assumptions for the value in use calculations are growth rates and discount rates.
Growth rates used were between 1.0% to 1.9% 2013: 1.5% to 4.5% and are determined based on third party long-term growth rate forecasts for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast cash flows reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs, and ranged between 9.3% and 11.9% 2013: 7.7% to 10.2%.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill might beimpaired, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
As explained in note 1u, expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and may differ from the cash flows that ultimately arise which may affect the recoverable value of the CGU.
The Group conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests of CGUs.
The directors consider that the Netherlands is the only CGU for which a reasonably possible change in key assumptions during the next year would cause the recoverable amount of the CGU to fall below its carrying amount.
At 29 March 2014, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value by 7m in the Netherlands, incorporating a long-term growth rate of 1.2% and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.3% as key assumptions.
If the pre-tax discount rate increased above 10.1% or forecast EBITDA reduced by more than 7%, the recoverable amount in the Netherlands would fall below its carrying amount.
iii INTANGIBLES ACQUIRED DURING THE YEAR AS PART OF CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION a Ac quisition intangibles included customer relationships and brands.
Each class of intangible asset was independently valued by experts using appropriate valuation techniques.
b Softw are and licences were independently valued using an amortised replacement cost method.
Amortisation commences from the point at which the software comes into use.
11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Short Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total Cost m m m m m Balance at 1 April 2012 72 72 Disposals 42 42 Balance at 31 March 2013 30 30 CPW Europe Acquisition 27 24 21 72 Additions 2 11 7 20 Disposals 12 12 Foreign exchange 1 1 Balance at 29 March 2014 18 29 34 28 109 Short Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses m m m m m Balance at 1 April 2012 6 6 Depreciation 1 1 Impairment 1 1 Disposals 5 5 Balance at 31 March 2013 3 3 Disposals 2 2 Depreciation 1 5 7 5 18 Balance at 29 March 2014 2 5 7 5 19 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Short Freehold land leasehold Fixtures Computer and buildings costs and fittings hardware Total Carrying amounts m m m m m At 31 March 2013 27 27 At 29 March 2014 16 24 27 23 90 Freehold land and buildings comprise the Groups investment property.
The fair value of investment property as at 29 March 2014 was determined by an external, independent property valuation expert as 22m 2013: 31m.
The valuation expert has appropriate recognised professional qualifications as well as recent experience in the location and category of the properties being valued.
The valuation of properties was performed by reference to appropriate yield rates and market evidence of recent transactions.
Future minimum lease payments in respect of the Groups investment properties are detailed in note 28.
12 PRINCIPAL COMPANY INVESTMENTS The Company has investments in the following subsidiary undertakings, which, alongside joint ventures, principally affected the profits or losses or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
All holdings are in equity share capital and give the Group an effective holding of 100% onconsolidation.
Country of incorporation Name or registration Nature of business The Carphone Warehouse Limited England and Wales Distribution The Phone House Spain S. L. U Spain Distribution The Phone House Deutschland GmbH Germany Distribution The Phone House Telecom GmbH Germany Distribution The Phone House Netherlands B. V. Netherlands Distribution GEAB The Phone House AB Sweden Distribution The Carphone Warehouse Limited Ireland Distribution The Phone House Comercio e Aluguer fide bens e Servios Lda Portugal Distribution New Technology Insurance Ireland Insurance ISE-Net Solutions Limited England and Wales IT New CPW Limited England and Wales Holding company Carphone Warehouse Europe Limited England and Wales Holding company Held directly by the Company.
The following subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in England and Wales, are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of that Act: Company registration Name number CPW Tulketh Mill Limited 06585719 CPW Irlam Limited 05825842 CPW Brands 2 Limited 07135355 The Carphone Warehouse Digital Limited 03966947 CPW Acton Five Limited 05738735 CPW Consultancy Limited 07881879 CWIAB Limited 02441554 The Carphone Warehouse UK Limited 03827277 CPW CP Limited 06585457 13 STOCK 2014 2013 m m Finished goods and goods for resale 240 240 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 82 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 935 Less provision for impairment 20 Trade receivables net of provision for impairment 915 Prepayments and other receivables 90 3 Accrued income 5 Derivative financial assets 2 1,012 3 Non-current 191 Current 821 3 1,012 3 Non-current receivables represents commission receivable on sales which is due after more than one year.
Trade and other receivables arediscounted using discount rates which reflect the relevant costs of financing when the receivable is recognised, where the time value ofmoney is considered to be material.
The Groups gross trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 m m Sterling 698 Euro 229 Other 8 935 The ageing of gross trade receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Not yet due 795 Under 2 months 49 2 to 4 months 39 Over 4 months 52 935 The ageing of provisions for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Not yet due 2 Under 2 months 3 2 to 4 months 1 Over 4 months 14 20 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 14 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES continued Movements in provisions for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Opening balance CPW Europe Acquisition 23 Charged to the income statement 19 Receivables written off as irrecoverable 22 Closing balance 20 As at 29 March 2014, trade receivables of 122m 2013: nil were past due but not impaired.
The Group made provision based on historical rates of recoverability and all unprovided amounts are considered to be recoverable.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is asfollows: 2014 2013 m m Under 2 months 46 2 to 4 months 38 Over 4 months 38 122 15 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and on deposit 283 117 Cash and cash equivalents include short-term bank deposits which are available on demand.
Within cash and cash equivalents, 25m 2013: nil isheld by the Groups insurance business to cover regulatory reserve requirements.
As such, these funds are not available tooffset against other Group borrowings.
A further 1m is held to cover obligations on third party insurance accounts.
Loans and other borrowings are set out in note 19.
16 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2014 2013 m m Current Trade payables 565 1 Accruals 166 15 Deferred income 11 1 Other taxes and social security amounts payable 127 869 17 Non-current Trade and other payables 113 Total trade and other payables 982 17 Non-current trade and other payables relate principally to property leases that are deemed to be over-rented.
These liabilities are unwound over the period of the relevant lease, of up to 22 years.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 84 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES continued The Groups gross trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 m m Sterling 655 17 Euro 313 Other 14 982 17 17 DEFERRED CONSIDERATION 2014 2013 m m Current 25 Non-current 25 50 Deferred consideration arose on the CPW Europe Acquisition and is payable to Best Buy in two equal instalments of 25m due in June 2014 andJune 2015.
These amounts bear interest at 2.5% per annum.
18 PROVISIONS Reorganisation Sales Other Total m m m m Balance at 1 April 2012 9 9 Released in the year 2 2 Balance at 31 March 2013 7 7 CPW Europe Acquisition 35 11 17 63 Charge in profit or loss 3 4 7 Released in the year 3 3 Utilised in the year 13 4 7 24 Balance at 29 March 2014 22 10 18 50 19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS 2014 2013 m m Current liabilities Finance lease obligations 1 Non-current liabilities Loans and other borrowings 290 291 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS continued a LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS i COMMITTED FACILITIES The Group has a 650m multi-currency term and revolving credit facility which matures in April 2017.
This facility is split into two tranches: a 400m revolving tranche and a term loan tranche of 250m, which amortises by 25m on 30 June 2015 and by a further 50m on 30 June 2016.
The rate of interest payable on borrowings is the aggregate of the applicable margin which depends on performance against one of the facilitys financial covenants and LIBOR or an equivalent benchmark rate for other currencies.
Commitment and utilisation fees are also payable under the terms of the facility.
ii BANK OVERDRAFTS AND UNCOMMITTED FACILITIES The Group has overdraft and uncommitted money market facilities totalling approximately 95m 2013: 3m.
b FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: Future minimum Present value of minimum leasepayments Interest lease payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m Less than one year 1 1 1 1 c ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FUNDS DEBT At At 1 April CPW Europe Cash 29 March 2013 Acquisition flows 2014 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 117 166 283 117 166 283 Loans and other borrowings 271 19 290 Finance lease obligations 3 2 1 274 17 291 Net funds debt 117 274 149 8 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 86 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 LOANS AND OTHER BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE OBLIGATIONS continued c ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN FUNDS DEBT continued At At 1 April Cash 31 March 2012 flows 2013 m m m Cash and cash equivalents 103 14 117 Net funds 103 14 117 20 SHARE CAPITAL 2014 2013 2014 2013 million million m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.1p each 576 473 1 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 million million m m Ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year 473 473 1 1 Issued for cash 47 Exercise of share options 14 Issue of Consideration Shares 42 Ordinary shares in issue at the end of the year 576 473 1 1 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
On 30 April 2013 the Group placed 47.2m ordinary shares at 222 pence per share, raising net proceeds of 103m which were used to fund part of the consideration for the CPW Europe Acquisition.
On 25 June 2013 the Group issued 42.1m Consideration Shares to Best Buy.
Best Buy agreed to waive rights to dividends payable on these shares for the period in which they were in their ownership.
The Consideration Shares were placed by the Group in July 2013 and from this point held the same rights as other ordinary shares.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 21 RESERVES AND ACCUMULATED PROFITS Share Capital Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total 2014 m m m m m m m At the beginning of the year 1 170 1,238 2 750 661 Net profit for the year 48 48 Other comprehensive income expense 2 11 9 Issue of shares 113 103 216 Net purchase of own shares 12 12 Equity dividends 30 30 Tax on items recognised directly through reserves 6 6 At the end of the year 1 283 1,355 9 750 880 Share Capital Share premium Accumulated Translation Demerger redemption capital reserve profits reserve reserve reserve Total 2013 m m m m m m m At the beginning of the year 34 170 697 750 557 708 Net profit for the year 4 4 Other comprehensive income 2 2 Redemption of shares 33 33 33 33 Equity dividends 23 23 Capital reduction 590 590 Share of other reserve movements of joint ventures 3 3 At the end of the year 1 170 1,238 2 750 661 22 EQUITY DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS The following dividends and distributions were paid during the year: 2014 2013 m m Redemption of 172p per B share through the B C Share Scheme 33 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2012 of 3.25p per ordinary share 15 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 1.75p per ordinary share 8 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 of 3.25p per ordinary share 19 Interim dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 2.00p per ordinary share 11 30 56 The following distribution is proposed but had not been effected at 29 March 2014: m Final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 of 4.00p per ordinary share 23 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 29 March 2014 is subject to shareholders approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 88 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION On 26 June 2013 the Group completed the CPW Europe Acquisition for a gross consideration of 500m, bringing the Groups ownership interest to100%.
CPW Europe is one of the largest independent telecommunications specialists in Europe, operating retail stores, principally under the Carphone Warehouse and Phone House brands, together with well-developed online propositions.
CPW Europe is also increasingly focused onleveraging its assets and expertise to provide services to third parties through its Connected World Services business.
The primary reasons for the acquisition were to bring a simplified ownership structure, making day-to-day management easier and thestrategic decision-making process more streamlined, and enabling the Group to better leverage CPW Europes asset base and know-how.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of CPW Europe as at the acquisition date were as follows: Notes m Intangible assets 120 Property, plant and equipment 72 Deferred tax assets 44 Stock 343 Trade and other receivables a i 1,112 Net cash and cash equivalents 53 Current asset investments 5 Trade and other payables 836 Corporation tax liabilities 48 Provisions a ii 63 Loans and other borrowings 271 Finance lease obligations 3 Identifiable net assets 528 Goodwill a iii 484 Total consideration 1,012 Satisfied by: Fair value of existing joint venture investment b i 500 Cash b ii 370 Deferred consideration b iii 50 Equity b iv 113 Derivative asset b iv 21 1,012 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 370 Less net cash and cash equivalents acquired 53 317 a NET ASSETS ACQUIRED i The f air value of trade and other receivables represents gross contractual amounts receivable of 1,135m, less amounts not considered collectable of 23m.
ii Pr ovisions include the recognition of contingent liabilities of 8m in relation to legal claims and other potential exposures.
It is expected thatany costs associated with these contingent liabilities will be incurred over the next four years.
iii The goodwill of 484m arising on the ac quisition reflects the fact that CPW Europes value is based on its cash generating potential rather than its existing assets, and the fact that many of its key strengths, such as its scale and expertise, do not represent intangible assets as defined by IFRS.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 23 CPW EUROPE ACQUISITION continued b CONSIDERATION i IFRS 3 Busines s Combinations requires that the Groups existing 50% interest in CPW Europe be revalued to its fair value aspart of the acquisition accounting process.
The fair value of this interest is considered to be equal to the gross consideration of500m paid by the Group to acquire Best Buys 50% interest in CPW Europe.
As the carrying value of the Groups investment inCPW Europe was 499m at the acquisition date, a gain of 1m was recognised in non-Headline operating expenses in respectof this revaluation.
ii Gr oss cash consideration of 370m was settled on completion, offset by payments from Best Buy of 29m in respect of the prepayment or termination of the Groups other interests with Best Buy.
iii The 50m of def erred cash consideration, which bears interest at 2.5% per annum, is payable to Best Buy in two equal instalments of 25m in June 2014 and June 2015. iv A further 80m of c onsideration was provided through the issue on completion of 42.1m shares to Best Buy, at a price of 1.90 per share.
The Group had the right to place the Consideration Shares on Best Buys behalf during the 12 month period to June 2014, and to retain any upside on disposal.
The value of the Consideration Shares on completion was 101m, based on a share price at that date of 2.38, and this value is recorded as consideration, with the value associated with the right to place the Consideration Shares recognised as a derivative financial asset of 21m.
The Consideration Shares were placed in July 2013 at an average price of 2.44, resulting in a net cash gain of 23m for the Group.
The difference between the disposal proceeds and the value of the derivative financial asset has been recognised as a gain of 2m in non-Headline operating expenses.
As part of the transaction, the Group agreed to satisfy Best Buys obligations in relation to certain incentive schemes.
Shares with avalue of 12m were issued in respect of Best Buys obligations and have been included in consideration.
c OTHER INFORMATION The results of CPW Europe have been consolidated into the Groups income statement from 26 June 2013, contributing 2,561m of revenue and a profit before tax of 61m in the period to 29 March 2014.
If the acquisition had completed on 1 April 2013, being the first day of the financial year, the Groups revenue would have been 3,402m and the Groups profit before tax would have been 46m.
Transaction-related charges of 18m, comprising banking and professional fees of 7m and cash and non-cash charges relating toincentive schemes of 11m have been included in non-Headline operating expenses.
24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Interests in joint ventures are as follows: Country of 2014 2013 Business Principal activities incorporation interest interest CPW Europe Retail, distribution, insurance, telecoms services England and Wales n a 50.0% Virgin Mobile France MVNO England and Wales 46.3% 46.3% The Group acquired Best Buys 50% interest in CPW Europe on 26 June 2013, following which the Groups joint venture interest in CPW Europe was derecognised and the Group consolidated the results of CPW Europe.
Refer to note 23 for further details.
Management of Virgin Mobile France hold share options in the business as explained in note 5b.
In addition to share options, management of Virgin Mobile France hold warrants that give them the right to acquire new shares at a price based on the value of existing shareholder funding and an additional amount which increases with the quantity of shares being acquired.
The maximum potential dilution to the Groups stake if all existing share options and warrants were exercised is approximately 5.0%, although thevalue of this dilution would be partially offset by cash inflows in relation to the proceeds on exercise.
On 16 May 2014 the Group announced that it had entered into an exclusivity agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France see note 29.
Theresults of Virgin Mobile France are therefore presented within discontinued operations and the Groups interest in that business ispresented as an asset held for sale.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 90 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued a GROUP BALANCE SHEET INTERESTS The Groups interests in joint ventures are analysed as follows: Net assets liabilities Goodwill Loans Total 2014 m m m m Opening balance 414 103 20 537 Share of results 20 20 Loans repaid net 2 2 Revaluation of interest in CPW Europe 1 1 Disposal of interest in CPW Europe 397 103 500 Reclassification of Virgin Mobile France to assets held for sale 7 18 11 Foreign exchange 5 5 Closing balance CPW Europe Virgin Mobile France Closing balance Net assets liabilities Goodwill Loans Total 2013 m m m m Opening balance 409 103 24 536 Share of results Loans repaid net 4 4 Share of other reserve movements 3 3 Foreign exchange 2 2 Closing balance 414 103 20 537 CPW Europe 421 103 524 Virgin Mobile France 7 20 13 Closing balance 414 103 20 537 b ASSETS HELD FOR SALE The Groups assets held for sale are analysed as follows: 2014 2013 Virgin Mobile France m m Share of net liabilities 7 Loans 18 Assets held for sale 11 Loans are provided to Virgin Mobile France under a shareholder agreement: funding requirements are agreed between the shareholders ona regular basis and are provided in proportion to each partys shareholding.
Virgin Mobile France also has an overdraft facility and a third party three-year financing arrangement to provide funding up to 25m in respect of capital expenditure.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued c ANALYSIS OF PROFITS AND LOSSES The Groups share of the results of its joint ventures within continuing operations is as follows: Period ended 26 June Restated 2013 2013 CPW Europe m m Headline revenue 777 3,337 Headline EBIT 12 129 Net interest expense 2 9 Taxation on Headline results 5 25 Headline profit after taxation 5 95 Group share of Headline profit after taxation 3 48 Group share of French operations in process of closure post-tax 23 45 Group share of exceptional items post-tax 5 Group share of loss after taxation 20 2 Prior year comparatives have been restated to classify the results of the Group's operations in France as non-Headline.
Revenue associated with this business prior to the CPW Europe Acquisition was 49m 2013: 357m.
Reported revenue on a statutory basis is 826m 2013: 3,694m.
Headline EBIT includes the unwinding of discounts for the time value of money on network commissions receivable over the life of the customer.
This unwind has a value of 3m for the period ended 26 June 2013 year ended 31 March 2013: 9m and is treated as interest income in the joint venture's statutory results.
The Group's share of the results of its joint ventures within discontinued operations is analysed as follows: 2014 2013 Virgin Mobile France m m Revenue 346 385 Headline EBIT 3 12 Net interest expense 1 1 Taxation on Headline results 1 4 Headline profit after taxation 1 7 Group share of Headline profit after taxation 3 Group share of amortisation of acquisition intangibles post-tax 1 Group share of profit after taxation 2 Revenue excludes contributions towards subscriber acquisition costs from network operators and customers, as the directors consider that this provides a better representation of underlying performance.
These items, which have a value of 48m in the year ended 29 March 2014 2013: 74m, are netted off against acquisition costs within Headline EBIT.
Reported revenue on a statutory basis for the year ended 29 March 2014 is 394m 2013: 459m.
d ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The Groups share of the assets and liabilities of CPW Europe is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 548 Cash and overdrafts net 124 Other borrowings 3 Other assets and liabilities net 172 Net assets 841 Group share of net assets 421 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 92 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 INTERESTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSETS HELD FOR SALE continued d ANALYSIS OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued The Groups share of the assets and liabilities of Virgin Mobile France is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 98 100 Cash and overdrafts net 2 2 Loans from the Group 18 20 Other borrowings 34 22 Other assets and liabilities net 62 75 Net liabilities 14 15 Group share of net liabilities 7 7 There are no material contingent liabilities in relation to Virgin Mobile France, which had no capital commitments attheend of either year.
2014 2013 m m Total Group share of net liabilities assets of joint ventures 7 414 25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the financial statements require disclosure of fair value measurements bylevel based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: Level 2 input s other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly thatis, asprices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The significant inputs required to fair value all of the Groups financial instruments are observable.
The Group only holds Level 2 financial instruments.
There have also been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Fair values have been arrived at by discounting future cash flows, assuming no early redemption, or by revaluing forward currency contracts to year-end market rates as appropriate to the instrument.
The directors consider that the book value of financial assets and liabilities recorded at amortised cost and their fair value are approximately equal.
The book value and fair value of the Groups financial assets, liabilities and derivative financial instruments is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 283 117 Trade and other receivables excluding derivative financial assets 1,010 3 Derivative financial assets 2 Loans to Virgin Mobile France see note 24 18 20 Trade and other payables 869 17 Finance leases 1 Deferred consideration 50 Loans and other borrowings 290 a FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES The Groups activities expose it to certain financial risks including market risk such as foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups treasury function, which operates under approved treasury policies, uses certain financial instruments to mitigate potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance from these risks.
These financial instruments consist of bank loans and deposits, spot and forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps.
b FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK The Group undertakes certain transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies and as a consequence has exposure to exchange rate fluctuations.
These exposures primarily arise from stock purchases, with most of the Groups exposure being to Euro fluctuations.
The Group uses spot and forward currency contracts to mitigate these exposures.
The translation risk on converting overseas currency profits or losses is not hedged and such profits or losses are converted into Sterling at average exchange rates throughout the year.
Hedge accounting is not applied to other outstanding currency contracts and gains and losses are therefore recognised directly in profit or loss.
No contracts with embedded derivatives have been identified and, accordingly, no such derivatives have been accounted for separately.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued b FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK continued At 29 March 2014, the total notional principal amount of outstanding currency contracts was 68m 2013: 20m.
Currency loans and foreign exchange contracts are sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates.
This sensitivity can be analysed in comparison to year-end rates assuming all other variables remain constant as follows: 2014 2013 Income Income statement statement movement movement m m 10% movement in the Sterling Euro exchange rate 6 10% movement in the Sterling Swedish Krona exchange rate 1 c INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups interest rate risk arises primarily on cash, cash equivalents and loans and other borrowings, all of which are at floating rates of interest and which therefore expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
These floating rates are linked to LIBOR and other interest rate bases as appropriate to the instrument and currency.
Future cash flows arising from these financial instruments depend on interest rates and periods agreed at the time of rollover.
Group policy permits the use of long-term interest rate derivatives in managing the risks associated with movements in interest rates.
The effect on the income statement and equity of 1% movements in the interest rate for the currencies in which most Group cash, cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings are denominated and on which the valuation of most derivative financial instruments is based isasfollows, assuming that the year-end positions prevail throughout the year: 2014 2013 Income Income statement statement movement movement m m 1% movement in the Sterling interest rate 4 1 1% movement in the Euro interest rate d LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by regularly reviewing the long-term and short-term cash flow projections for the business against the resources available to it.
In order to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing and future developments, the Group has committed bank facilities, excluding overdrafts repayable on demand, totalling 650m 2013: nil.
In the prior year, CPW Europe had a committed 400m revolving credit facility which was due to expire in July 2015 and which was replaced as part of the CPW Europe Acquisition by the 650m term and revolving credit facility described in note 19.
The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows assuming that interest rates remain constant and that borrowings are paid in full in the year ofmaturity.
1 year 12 years 23 years 3 years Total 2014 m m m m m Finance leases 1 1 Derivative financial instruments payable: Forward foreign exchange contracts 68 68 Interest rate swaps 1 1 Derivative financial instruments receivable: Forward foreign exchange contracts 68 68 Interest rate swaps 1 3 4 Loans and other borrowings 8 32 56 215 311 Deferred consideration 25 25 50 Trade and other payables 869 869 Carphone Warehouse Group plc 94 Annual Report 2014 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued d LIQUIDITY RISK continued 1 year 12 years 23 years 3 years Total 2013 m m m m m Trade and other payables 17 17 e CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is regularly monitored and the Groups policy is updated as appropriate.
The large majority of the Groups trade receivables are balances due from MNOs, which are generally major multi-national enterprises with whom the Group has well-established relationships andare consequently not considered to add significantly to the Groups credit risk exposure.
The Group's trade receivables also include balances due from equipment manufacturers, dealer customers and Connected World Services customers.
Where it is considered appropriate, the Group obtains credit insurance on accounts receivable.
Provision is made for any receivables that are considered to be irrecoverable.
Details of trade receivables which are past due but not impaired are provided in note 14.
The credit risks on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are closely monitored and credit ratings are used indetermining maximum counterparty credit risk.
The Groups funding is reliant on its 650m bank facilities, which are provided by nine banks: these institutions are considered to be adequately capitalised to continue to meet their obligations under the facility.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents the Group's maximum exposure to credit risk.
f CAPITAL RISK The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, whilst maximising the return to shareholders through a suitable mix of debt and equity.
Thecapital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, loans and other borrowings and equity attributable to equity holders of the Company, comprising issued capital, reserves and accumulated profits.
Except in relation to minimum capital requirements in its insurance business, the Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group monitors its capital structure on an ongoing basis, including assessing the risks associated with each class of capital.
26 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year, the Group had the following transactions and balances requiring disclosure with its joint ventures see also note 24 : Virgin Virgin CPW Mobile CPW Mobile Europe France Europe France 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Revenue for services provided 1 4 Net interest and other finance income 1 1 Loans owed to the Group 18 20 Other amounts owed to the Group 1 Other amounts owed by the Group 6 Revenue for services provided in the prior year relates to investment property rental income.
Revenue for services provided to Virgin Mobile France in the current year relates to commissions on sales of Virgin Mobile France connections by the Groups wholly owned operations in France.
All transactions entered into with related parties were completed on an arms length basis.
27 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 2014 2013 m m Expenditure contracted, but not provided for in the financial statements Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28 OPERATING LEASES a LEASES AS LESSEE The Group leases a number of retail units and offices under operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
i FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS At 29 March 2014, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due over the following periods: 2014 2013 m m Less than one year 93 Between one and five years 249 More than five years 130 472 The Group has some leases that include revenue-related rental payments that are contingent on store performance.
The analysis above includes only the minimum rental component.
The total amount of future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases is 39m 2013: nil.
ii AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS 2014 2013 m m Fixed rent expense 89 Sub-lease income 1 88 b LEASES AS LESSOR The Group has investment properties which are let to third parties on long-term leases.
i FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE RECEIPTS At 29 March 2014, the Group had non-cancellable operating leases which provided for receipts over the following periods: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 2 2 In two to five years 8 8 After five years 12 14 22 24 ii AMOUNTS RECOGNISED IN PROFIT OR LOSS During the year ended 29 March 2014, the Group recorded 2m 2013: 6m of investment property rental income within revenue.
"29 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 15 May 2014, the Company announced that it had reached agreement on the terms for an all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc the""Merger""."
Under the terms of the Merger, ordinary shareholders in Dixons Retail plc will for each of their shares in Dixons Retail plc receive 0.155 shares in the Company, which will be renamed Dixons Carphone plc.
The Board considers that the Merger will deliver significant value to Carphone shareholders through a combination of enhanced commercial opportunities and operating synergies, which are expected to deliver recurring annual benefits of at least 80m by the 201718 financial year.
The Merger is expected to be effected by way of a scheme of arrangement and is conditional on the approval of the ordinary shareholders of both the Company and Dixons Retail plc and the sanction of the court.
On 16 May 2014, the Company announced that, alongside the other shareholders in the business, it had entered into an exclusivity agreement in respect of the proposed sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group for an enterprise value of 325m.
During the exclusivity period the parties have carried out the necessary consultations with employee work councils, and the transaction is subject to the approval of the French competition authority.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 96 Annual Report 2014
