FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Financial Statements as at 31 March 2014 1 Accounting policies The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group and Company financial statements are expressed in Sterling, which is their functional and presentational currency.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
a Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries to 31 March 2014.
Companies, other than subsidiaries, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights and over which it exerts significant influence, are treated as associates.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and reserves of these companies based on the latest available accounts.
Other companies, in which the Group has an investment representing 20% or more of the voting rights but where the directors consider that the Group does not exert significant influence, are not treated as associates and are accounted for as investments.
b Income Dividend receivable on equity shares are treated as revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Where the Group has elected to receive these dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as income.
Differences between the value of shares received and the cash dividend foregone are recognised in the capital returns of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on each such security.
Interest receivable from cash and short term deposits is accrued to the end of the year.
c Expenses All expenses and finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis.
An analysis of retained earnings broken down into revenue and capital items is given in note 16.
In arriving at this breakdown, expenses have been presented as revenue items except as follows: l expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment: l expenses are presented as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
One quarter of the base management fee is charged to revenue, with three quarters allocated to capital return to reflect the Boards expectations of long term investment returns.
All performance fees are charged to capital return.
d Finance costs The finance cost in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is calculated so as to give a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
One quarter of the finance cost is charged to revenue and three quarters to capital return.
e Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The tax effect of different items of expenditure is allocated between capital and revenue using the Groups effective rate of tax for the year.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method on all timing differences, calculated at the rate at which it is anticipated the timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits in the future against which the deferred tax asset can be offset.
The Company is an investment trust under s. 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and, as such, is not liable for tax on capital gains.
Capital gains arising in subsidiary companies are subject to capital gains tax.
