NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser, or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of this TR Property Investment Trust plc will be held at 12 noon on authority which would or might require shares to be allotted Tuesday 22 July 2014 at the Royal Automobile Club, 89 91 or rights to be granted after such expiry and the directors shall Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for the purpose of transacting the be entitled to allot shares and grant rights pursuant to any following business: such offers or agreements as if this authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, of 14 THAT which Resolutions 1 to 13 and 16 will be proposed as Ordinary a subject to the passing of Resolution 13 set out above Resolutions and Resolutions 14 and 15 shall be proposed as the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 and Special Resolutions.
Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited authority conferred by Resolution 13 above and or to sell Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014. shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such ended 31 March 2014. allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
i the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or 4 To declare a final dividend of 4.60 pence per Ordinary share.
invitation to apply for, equity securities: 5 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 6 To re-elect David Watson as a director.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 7 To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board 8 To re-elect Caroline Burton as a director.
otherwise considers necessary, and so that the 9 To re-elect Suzie Procter as a director.
Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers 10 To elect John Glen as a director.
necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 11 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or Meeting of the Company.
under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 12 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 13 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for 13 THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph pursuant to and in accordance to Section 551 of the i above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers up to a nominal amount of 3,968,762 being of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to in the Company up to a nominal value of 26,193,830 publication of the notice of meeting, being approximately 33% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon the publication of the notice of the meeting provided that this expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 13 above, authority shall expire at the date of the next Annual General save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business agreements before the expiry of such power which would on 22 October 2015, save that the Company shall be or might require equity securities to be allotted after such TR Property Investment Trust 73 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being the power conferred hereby had not expired.
the nominal value per Ordinary share: 15 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning Company in 2015, save that the Company shall be of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in shares which will, or may, be completed or executed such manner as the directors may from time to time wholly or partly after the power expires and the Company determine provided that: may purchase Ordinary shares pursuant to such contract as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the 16 THAT the maximum aggregate fees permitted to be paid to Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the directors of the Company, pursuant to Article 92 of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 47,593,396 Companys Articles of Association, be increased from Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 9 June 2014, the 250,000 to 300,000. date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: Registered Office: i 105% of the average of the middle market Registered in England No: 84492 quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the 1112 Hanover Street London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five London business days immediately preceding the date on W1S 1YQ which the Company agrees to buy the shares concerned: and By Order of the Board ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade For and on behalf of and the highest current independent bid for an Capita Company Secretarial Services Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue Secretary where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
9 June 2014 74 TR Property Investment Trust D WHITEHALL A O UR STREET R CHARING CRO AIR ST S R E GREEK ST DEAN STREET G E N T S T S R RUPERT ST OXENDON WARDOUR STREET E E T WHITCOMB STREET SACKVILLE ST ST WAR O D DUKE ST BURY ST MARLBOROUGH ROAD REGENT STEET SHERWOOD ST SAVILE ROW ST JAMESS STREET GT WINDMILL ST HAYMARKET LEXINGTON ST ARLINGTON STREET NEW BOND STREET OLD BOND STREET CARNABY ST C IRVING ST I Y Q S T T S S R U E P L DOWNING ST S S U O K H S C S DENMAN ST O NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 2 In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any Directions Pall Mall Clubhouse adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast a person must have his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 20 July 2014 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to Leicester Square entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Piccadilly Circus Royal 3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to Academy National of Arts Gallery requests made by shareholders of the Company under Nelsons Column Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts Green Park including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts GREEN ST JAMESS PARK PARK and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying The Royal Automobile Club has a dress code: with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
the Company is required to place a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting the time when it makes the statement available on the 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf includes any statement that the Company has been required at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting AGM a website.
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can attached to a different share or shares held by that appoint one or more corporate representatives who may shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided Company.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from the To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to the Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, have a right under an agreement with the registered The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed alternatively, by going to www.
com and or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement AGM.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such to given instructions to the person holding the shares as to instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM the exercise of voting rights.
and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
TR Property Investment Trust 75 L R A C STREET T L R E G I E A R S D T N S D G G P A E I C C N L L O T A S G MADDOX N I F LEIC I L L R A U GERRARD ST B R BROADWICK STREET T ORANGE ST JAMESS PANTON ST SQ PICCADILY KING STREET OLD COMPTON STREET ST JAMESS PLACE PALL MALL S RYDER T SQUARE E JERMYN STREET CHARLES II STREET L L E U A N P M BEAK STREET A ESTER CRANBOURN STREET LL E THE MALL V A Y R U B S BREWER STREET E T F A STRAND STREET H SHAFTESBURY AVENUE S CONDUIT STREET MONMOUTH ST ST MARTI ST MARTINS LANE NS PL NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at do so for the AGM to be held on 22 July 2014 and any www.
adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in 9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to sponsored members, and those CREST members who have members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the appointed a voting service provider should refer to their Annual General Meeting, notice of a resolution which those CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able members intend to move and which may properly be to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
moved at the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution may In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of properly be moved at the Annual General Meeting unless CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must constitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: contain the information required for such instructions, as described or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted so as to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify be received by the Companys agent, Computershare Investor the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be Services PLC CREST Participant ID: 3RA50, no later than 48 authenticated by the person s making it and must be hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
For this purpose, received by the Company not later than six weeks before the the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by date of the Annual General Meeting.
the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application 10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the Host from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
the business to be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor any matter other than a proposed resolution which may or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & properly be included in the business at the Annual General Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in Meeting.
A matter may properly be included in the business at CREST for any particular messages.
the Annual General Meeting unless i it is defamatory of any person or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in pursuant of this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the must identify the matter to be included in the business, must responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST member is a CREST personal member or the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, and must be received by the Company not later than six to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider weeks before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 29 of particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where the Annual Report & Accounts.
applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider are 12 As at 9 June 2014 being the latest practicable day prior to referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual publication of the notice of the meeting, the issued share concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and capital of the Company is 317,500,980 Ordinary shares of timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy 25p each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a Company at 9 June 2014 is 317,500,980. of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the 7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask Management Engagement Committee and the Letters of questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such Appointment for directors will be available for inspection for at question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting least 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys AGM.
but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the 14 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already Notice or any related documents to communicate for any been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, purposes other than those expressly stated.
or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
76 TR Property Investment Trust NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting This authority will expire at the earlier of close of business Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Directors on 22 October 2015 and the conclusion of the annual Remuneration Report, Remuneration Policy and general meeting of the Company held in 2015. Dividend These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation Resolution 14: Disapplication of statutory preof the audited accounts, the approval of the Directors emption rights Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy and the This resolution would give the directors the authority to declaration of the final dividend.
The vote to approve the allot shares or sell any shares which the Company elects remuneration report is advisory only and will not require to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in the existing shareholders in proportion to their existing report should the resolution not be passed.
approve the remuneration policy is binding.
This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in Resolutions 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9: Re-election of directors connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon of other equity securities if required by the rights of those Marrison, David Watson, Hugh Seaborn, Caroline Burton and shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or Suzie Procter.
In accordance with the UK Corporate otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of Governance Code, all directors will retire on an annual basis 3,968,762.
This aggregate nominal amount represents and have confirmed that they will offer themselves for approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the re-election.
Company as at 9 June 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this A formal performance evaluation has been completed and aggregate nominal amount, the directors confirm their your Board has determined that each of the directors intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption continues to be effective and demonstrates their Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative commitment to their role.
usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should Resolution 10: Election of director not take place without prior consultation with Resolution 10 deals with the election of John Glen as shareholders.
Under the Articles of Association, John Glen is required to submit himself for election at the first AGM after The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business his appointment: he hereby offers himself for election.
on 22 October 2015 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held in 2015.
Resolutions 11 and 12: Auditors These deal with the re-appointment of the auditors, Ernst Resolution 15: Authority to make Market Purchases & Young LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to of the Companys Ordinary shares determine their remuneration.
At the AGM held on 23 July 2013, a special resolution was proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, Resolution 13: Allotment of share capital until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014, to make market Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to a granted to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
a maximum nominal amount of 26,193,830 representing approximately 33% of the Companys Your Board is proposing that they should be given issued share capital as at 9 June 2014, being the latest renewed authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the practical date prior to publication.
As at the date of this market.
Your Board believes that to make such purchases notice the Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company The directors have no present intention of exercising this would, within guidelines set from time to time by the authority and would only expect to use the authority if Board, make either a single purchase or a series of shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the per share.
aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders.
TR Property Investment Trust 77 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Resolution 16: Increase in aggregate director fees Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset While the Board agreed not to increase director fees for Value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore the next financial year, the Board felt it appropriate to seek intended that purchases would only be made at prices shareholder approval to increase the aggregate director below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be fees limit in the Articles of Association from 250,000 to most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to 300,000 to ensure the Board had sufficient flexibility to be able to make such purchases as and when it considers adhere to their remuneration policy in the future.
The the timing to be favourable and therefore does not Board has no current intention to increase the directors propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
fees but feels it appropriate to increase the aggregate fee level to ensure directors could adhere to their The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury remuneration policy in the future.
Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into force on 1 December 2003.
The Regulations enable Recommendation companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any Your Board believes that the resolutions contained in this of their own shares they have purchased with a view to Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling of the Company and shareholders as a whole and them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, recommends that you vote in favour of them as your the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial shares re purchased in treasury.
re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 1 05% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,593,396 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,898,348 at 9 June 2014, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2015 or at any other general meeting.
