SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION General Shareholder Information Release of Results Benchmark The half year results are announced in late November.
Details of the benchmark is given in the Strategic Report The full year results are announced in late May.
on page 25 of this Report and Accounts.
The benchmark index is published daily and can be found on Bloomberg: Annual General Meeting The AGM is held in London in July.
FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total Return Index in Sterling Dividend Payment Dates Bloomberg: TR0RAG Index Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary shares as follows: Internet Interim: January Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Final: August Ordinary shares can be found on the Companys website at www.
Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Investor Services PLC, via www.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the Shareholders can also sign up to the DRIP through the address is given on page 79 of this report to give their investor centre.
Please note that to gain access to your instructions: these must include the bank account number, details on the Computershare site you will need the the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to holder reference number stated on the top left hand which payments are to be made.
corner of your share certificate.
Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP Disability Act TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents the opportunity to purchase further shares in the company issued by the Company are available from the Company through the DRIP.
DRIP forms may be obtained from Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger website www.
co. uk, or by phoning 0870 type as appropriate.
Charges do apply: dealing commission of You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor 0.5% subject to a minimum of 1.00.
Government Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow stamp duty of 0.5% also applies.
speech and hearing impaired people who have their own Share Price Listings textphone to contact them directly, without the need for The market prices of the Companys shares are published an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005. daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is Specially trained operators are available during normal published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial business hours to answer queries via this service.
Times also shows figures for the estimated Net Asset Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk Values and the discounts applicable.
operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf Share Price Information People you should dial 18001 followed by the number ISIN GB0009064097 you wish to dial.
L Datastream TRY 80 TR Property Investment Trust SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who formerly held Sigma shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of Ordinary shares, the impact on the shareholders capital gains tax base cost of the conversion to Sigma shares in 2007 and the redesignation to Ordinary shares in 2012 should be considered.
In respect of the conversion to Sigma in 2007, agreement was reached with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base the apportionment of the capital gains tax base cost on the proportion of Ordinary shares that were converted by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
As part of the re-designation of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in December 2012, a further agreement was reached with HMRC that a shareholders capital gains tax base cost in their new Ordinary shares should be equivalent to their capital gains base cost in the preexisting Sigma shares i. e. their capital gains base cost under the existing agreement if applicable.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
