157 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Shareholder information Annual Report Whilefraudsters may use different methods to try to con you, A copy of this Annual Report is available on our website there are some common things to watch out for: www.
Unsolicited calls offering you the chance to buy or sell shares Annual General Meeting AGM or investments overseas with the promise of huge returns: The AGM will be held at the offices of CMS at Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London EC4N 6HL on Wednesday, High pressure sales tactics, such as emphasising the 22 April 2015 at 10.30am.
Further details about the urgency, telling you youll miss out if you dont invest right meeting, including the proposed resolutions, can be found now, and just how much youll lose if you dont: in our notice of AGM which will be available shortly on our websitewww.
Incentives such as free reports, gifts or discounts: and Shareholder enquiries Asking you to transfer money abroad, for example to Spain, For queries about your shareholding or to tell us about changes Dubai or the US.
to your circumstances, please contact Equiniti Limited using the details shown below.
Equiniti Limited maintains shareholder Being given aUK number to call back on is no guarantee records on our behalf and deals with shareholder enquiries of alegitimate broker tricks include using call forwarding either in writing or by telephone: to overseas numbers, or not hanging up so that you remain connected to them and the UK number dialled does not actually By post By telephone go through anetwork.
Equiniti Limited UK telephone Aspect House 0871 384 2825 Do not disclose your personal information Spencer Road As aregistered shareholder in TSB Banking Group plc, your Lancing Overseas telephone name, address and number of shares held is amatter of public West Sussex 44 121 415 0830 record by law.
If your shares are held in anominee account on BN99 6DA your behalf this information is not publicly available.
Telephone lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
You should never Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p per minute plus Give personal details to any caller, especially when you do not network extras.
Calls from outside the United Kingdom are already have an existing relationship.
charged at applicable international rates.
The call prices quoted were correct at February 2015.
Genuine callers wont mind you taking their details and calling back but when you do, remember the issue of fake numbers, Institutional investors and always wait for adialling tone before dialling.
Check out If you are an institutional investor you can contact our investor their company name and details on the internet before calling.
relations team: TSB Banking Group plc will not By telephone By email Sell your private information to any third party, for example 020 7003 9419 investor.
We may engage third parties to assist us with activity relating to your shares, for example, Reports and communications assetreunification : The Group issues regulatory announcements through the Regulatory News Service RNS, and are available on our Contact you by telephone to buy or sell shares: or website www.
co. uk investors where you can also find our statutory reports and shareholder communications.
Ask you for credit card or bank account details in relation toany services or offers that you have not requested.
Digital communications Shareview by Equiniti Limited Shareview, the website provided by Equiniti, allows More help and advice shareholders to sign up to receive email communications and The FCA offers helpful information and advice on share fraud also provides the opportunity to self-manage your shareholding on their website www.
Shareholders can also access frequently asked questions, useful fact sheets, guidance notes, downloadable If you receive asuspicious call, contact the FCA: forms and asecure messaging system.
co. uk for outside UK: 44 20 7066 1000 further details.
Share price information Or use their share fraud reporting form at www.
uk Shareholders can access both the latest and historical share consumers scams investment-scams  via our website www.
co. uk investors shareroom-scams reporting-form.
For areal time buying or selling price, you will need to contact astockbroker.
If you believe you are already the victim of share sale fraud and have paid money over, you should contact Share fraud warning Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or report this online at Share dealing can be open to fraud, and we want to www.
remind you to be aware of this and help you spot the signs.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
