110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 Loans continued c Impairment of financial assets continued For unsecured personal lending portfolios, the impairment trigger is generally when the balance is two or more instalments iii Homogenous groups of loans continued in arrears or where the customer has exhibited one or more of The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is the impairment characteristics set out above.
While the trigger objective evidence of an impairment loss may include: is based on the payment performance or circumstances of each individual asset, the assessment of future cash flows Delinquency in contractual payments of principal uses historical experience of cohorts of similar portfolios such and or interest: that the assessment is considered to be collective.
Future cash flows are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash Indications that the borrower or group of borrowers flows of the assets in the cohort and historical loss experience isexperiencing significant financial difficulty: for similar assets.
Historical loss experience is adjusted on the basis of current observable data to reflect the effects of Restructuring of debt to reduce the burden on the borrower: current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects Breach of loan covenants or conditions: and of conditions in the historical period that do not exist currently.
The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future Initiation of bankruptcy or individual voluntary cash flows are reviewed regularly by the Group to reduce any arrangement proceedings.
differences between loss estimates and actual loss experience.
In respect of the Groups secured mortgage portfolios, the iv Write-offs impairment allowance is calculated based on a definition of A loan or advance is normally written off, either partially or impaired loans which are those six months or more in arrears infull, against the related allowance when the proceeds or in certain cases where the borrower is bankrupt or is in from realising any available security have been received or possession.
The estimated cash flows are calculated based there is no realistic prospect of recovery as a result of the on historical experience and are dependent on estimates of the customers insolvency, ceasing to trade or other reason and expected value of collateral which takes into account expected the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent future movements in house prices, less costs to sell.
recoveries of amounts previously written off decrease the amount of impairment losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income.
Loans and advances to customers 2014 2013 million million Mortgages Franchise 16,580.7 17,728.7 Mortgages Mortgage Enhancement 2,802.7 Unsecured lending and business banking 2,344.1 2,467.2 Gross lending 21,727.5 20,195.9 Allowance for impairment losses on loans and advances to customers note 10 86.1 96.8 Total loans and advances to customers 21,641.4 20,099.1 At 31 December 2014 19,422.2 million of loans and advances to customers 2013: 17,835.7 million had a contractual residual maturity of greater than one year.
Loans and advances to customers include loans securitised under the Groups securitisation programme, which have been sold by TSB Bank plc to a special purpose entity Cape Funding No.
1 plc is funded by the issue of debt on terms whereby the majority of the risks and rewards of the portfolio are retained, it is consolidated fully and all of these loans are retained on the Groups balance sheet, with the related notes in issue included within debt securities in issue.
The balance of the loans subject to the Groups securitisation programme and the carrying value of the notes in issue are listed in the table below.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Loans and Loans and advances Notes in advances Notes in securitised Issue securitised Issue million million million million Cape Funding No.
1 plc 2,876.3 2,925.0 Less held by the Group 2,915.0 Total securitisation notes note 3 10.0 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
