153 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Report of the independent auditors on the parentcompany financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of ISAs UK and Ireland reporting TSBBanking Group plc Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, Our opinion inour opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion, TSB Banking Group plcs parent company financial statements the financial statements : materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or give atrue and fair view of the state of the parent companys apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its cash flows for the inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in year then ended: the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Adequacy of accounting records and information and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements explanations received ofthe Companies Act 2006.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: What we have audited TSB Banking Group plcs financial statements comprise: we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit: or the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the parent company statement of changes in equity for the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not year then ended: been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company cash flow statement for the year the financial statements and the part of the Directors then ended: and remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement the notes to the parent company financial statements, withthe accounting records and returns.
whichinclude asummary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere Directors remuneration in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to identified as audited.
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no Other required reporting exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Consistency of other information Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Companies Act 2006 opinions Our responsibilities and those of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors and the Directors report for the financial year for which responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the preparation of the financial statements and for being financial statements.
satisfiedthat they give atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 154 Parent company financial statements Report of the independent auditors on the parentcompany financial statements continued This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the only for the Companys members as abody in accordance Directors judgements against available evidence, forming with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose We test and examine information, using sampling and other hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to consent in writing.
provide areasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of What an audit of financial statements involves controls, substantive procedures or acombination of both.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to information in the Annual Report to identify material give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect This includes an assessment of: based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent become aware of any apparent material misstatements or companys circumstances and have been consistently applied inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Other matter by the Directors: and We have reported separately on the Group financial the overall presentation of the financial statements.
statements of TSB Banking Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Allan McGrath Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 24 February 2015 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
