84 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the strategic report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and regulations.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Each of the Directors, whose names are listed on page 79 of statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors this annual report, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: have prepared the Group and Company financial statements inaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The financial statements, prepared in accordance IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial with International Financial Reporting Standards statements are required by law to give atrue and fair view of as adopted by the European Union, give atrue the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Group for that period.
The Directors consider that, in preparing position and profit or loss of the Group: and these financial statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by The strategic report includes afair review of the reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that development and performance of the business all accounting standards which they consider applicable have and the position of the Group, together with, in the been followed.
Strategic report and the Risk report, adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps adequate accounting records which disclose with On behalf of the Board reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Will Samuel Chairman Paul Pester Chief Executive Officer 24 February 2015 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
