97 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Market risk For more information: Page 15 Risk overview Market risk occurs from areduction in earnings, value Behavioural risk or reserves caused by changes in the prices of financial The risk that maturity assumptions applied to retail and instruments.
In addition, market risk can arise as aresult business banking products may change over time, or may of changes in customer behaviour, which may affect the themselves be afunction of interest rate levels.
maturity profiles of the Groups assets and liabilities.
The Group aims to maximise the value of its business by Residual risk preserving its margins through management of market risk The small amount of interest rate risk to which the Group positions that arise through the natural course of business.
is exposed either prior to hedging with the external market or where the hedging is not entirely effective in The Groups primary market risk is the interest rate risk arising mitigating such risk.
from the Groups banking activities and as aresult is exposed to the following categories of risk: Margin compression The risk of lower net interest margins in the current low interest Re-pricing risk rate environment, as the Group may be unable to pass on any The risk that assets and liabilities have amaturity mismatch, or rate reductions in full on rates paid on customer deposits.
re-price at different times to each other, exposing the Groups income and underlying value to unanticipated fluctuations as The table below shows an illustration of how 12 month interest rates vary and the shape of the yield curve changes.
Net Interest Income NII would change in response to an This includes the risk from the investment of the Groups equity immediate parallel shift to all relevant interest rates market and bank account balances.
2014 2013 Basis risk Up Down Up Down The risk that assets and liabilities re-price based on different 25 bps 25 bps 25 bps 25 bps interest rate indices such as LIBOR or Base Rate and expose million million million million the Groups earnings and margins to changes in the spread 12 month NII between indices.
sensitivity 0.7 8.2 0.7 10.5 Optionality risk The risk from options embedded in retail and business banking assets and liabilities, such as the right for customers to top-up fixed rate savings accounts or to prepay mortgages.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
