132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 Other important disclosures Accounting policies relevant to this section Premises excluding land : Freehold long and short leasehold premises: shorter of l Provisions and contingent liabilities 50 years or the remaining period of the lease.
Provisions are recognised in respect of present obligations arising from past events where it is probable that outflows of Leasehold improvements: shorter of ten years and, if lease resources will be required to settle the obligations and they can renewal is not likely, the remaining period of the lease.
Equipment: Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence Fixtures and furnishings: 0-10 years.
depends on the outcome of uncertain future events or those present obligations where the outflows of resources are Other equipment and motor vehicles: 2-8 years.
uncertain or cannot be measured reliably.
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, unless they are remote.
andadjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Contingent assets are possible assets that arise from past Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly may not be recoverable.
In the event that an assets carrying within the Groups control.
These are disclosed where an amount is determined to be greater than its recoverable amount inflow of economic benefits is probable, and are recognised it is written down immediately.
The recoverable amount is the only when it is virtually certain that an inflow of economic higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value benefits will arise.
m Property, plant and equipment n Operating leases Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less The leases entered into by the Group as lessee are primarily accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase operating leases.
Operating lease rentals payable are charged price of the assets and the costs attributable to bringing the to the income statement on astraight-line basis over the period asset into working condition for its intended use.
When an operating lease is terminated before land included in premises is not depreciated.
Depreciation the end of the lease period, any payment made to the lessor on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to by way of penalty is recognised as an expense in the period allocate the difference between the cost and the residual value of termination.
over their estimated useful lives, as follows: 29.
Contingent liabilities i The Financial Services Compensation Scheme The FSCS is the UKs independent statutory compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms and pays compensation if afirm is unable or likely to be unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by levies on the authorised financial services industry.
Each deposit-taking institution contributes towards the FSCS levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits on 31 December of the year preceding the scheme year, which runs from 1 April to 31 March.
Following the default of anumber of deposit takers in 2008, the FSCS borrowed funds from HM Treasury to meet the compensation costs for customers of those firms.
Although the substantial majority of this loan, which totalled approximately 15.8billion at 31 December 2014, will be repaid from funds the FSCS receives from asset sales, surplus cash flow or other recoveries in relation to the assets of the firms that defaulted, any shortfall and interest cost will be funded by deposit-taking participants of the FSCS.
In January 2015, the FSCS forecast that it expects to require to levy acapital shortfall of 1.1 billion on all deposit-taking participants to enable it to repay the balance of the HM Treasury loan.
During 2014, the Group has paid, as required, its share of the 2013 14 interest and the 2014 15 capital elements of the levy and provided for its share of the 2014 15 interest element, payable September 2015.
The amount of future compensation costs levies payable by the Group depends on anumber of factors including participation in the market at 31 December, the level of protected deposits and the population of deposit-taking participants.
ii Legal and regulatory matters During the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to threatened and actual legal proceedings which may include class action lawsuits brought on behalf of customers and other third parties, regulatory investigations, regulatory challenges and enforcement actions.
All such material matters are periodically reassessed, with the assistance of external professional advisers where appropriate, to determine the likelihood of the Group incurring aliability.
In those instances where it is concluded that it is more likely than not that apayment will be made, aprovision is established to managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at the relevant balance sheet date.
In some cases it will not be possible to form aview, either because the facts are unclear or because further time is needed to properly assess the merits of the case and no provisions are held against such matters.
However the Group does not currently expect the final outcome of any such case to have amaterial adverse effect on its financial position, operations or cash flows.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
