116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 Charges For more information: Business model Page 7 Business review Page 26 Running a bank with 4.5 million customers comes with overheads.
Charges we incur include the costs of paying our 8,700 TSB Partners, running our IT systems and branches, developing new products and services, meeting regulatory requirements and paying for advertising and marketing.
Occasionally, our customers circumstances change and they are unable to repay the money they borrow from us causing us to incur impairment losses.
Finally, the Group pays tax toHMRC on the profits we earn.
Accounting policies relevant to recognised charges At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options or share awards that f Pensions and other post-retirement benefits are expected to vest based on the non-market and service The Group operates defined contribution pension plans under vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision to original which the Group pays fixed contributions.
The costs of the estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement, Groups defined contribution plans are charged to the income withacorresponding adjustment to equity.
statement, as an operating expense, in the period in which they fall due.
h Taxation Current corporation tax which is payable on taxable profits g Share-based compensation isrecognised as an expense in the period in which the The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based profits arise.
compensation plans, in respect of services received from certain of its Partners.
The fair value of the options or share Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, awards granted in exchange for Partner services is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases as an expense.
The total amount to beexpensed is determined of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the by reference to the fair value of the option or share award financial statements.
granted, including any market performance conditions and any non-vesting conditions.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date The impact of any service and non-market performance vesting thatare expected to apply when the related deferred tax conditions are not included in the fair value and instead are assetis realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
included in estimating the number of awards or options that areexpected to vest.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which temporary differences can be utilised.
is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
A corresponding credit is recognised in Deferred and current tax assets and liabilities are offset equity.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may when they arise in the same tax reporting group and where provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore there is both a legal right of offset and the intention to settle the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability recognising the expense during the period between service simultaneously.
commencement period and grant date.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
