100 Financial statements Alignment with the Groups business model The presentation of the Groups consolidated financial Accounting policies statements aligns with the execution of the Groups The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of strategy, its business model and the management of the consolidated financial statements are presented in a manner the financial risk to which it is exposed.
As such the consistent with the Groups business model and are therefore consolidated financial statements are structured around included in the relevant sections of the consolidated financial thekey elements of the Groups business model as statements.
In addition, the following accounting policy relates explained on page 6. to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
Basis of preparation Consolidation On 31 January 2014, TSB Banking Group plc was Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over incorporated and on 25 April 2014 became the new holding which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity company for the TSB Group.
This took place by way of a when it is exposed to, or has rights share for share exchange whereby TSB Banking Group plc to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has issued shares to Lloyds Bank plc in return for obtaining 100% the ability to affect those returns through its power over the ownership of the issued share capital of TSB Bank plc.
Such power, generally but not exclusively, accompanies Banking Group plc was subsequently listed on the London a shareholding of more than half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated These consolidated financial statements of TSB Banking from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, Group plc the Group comprise the results of TSB Banking balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group plc consolidated with those of its subsidiaries, including Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are TSB Bank plc.
Comparative figures, as at and for the year also eliminated.
ended 31 December 2013, are those of TSB Bank plc, except for the presentation of share capital, share premium and capital Changes in accounting policy reorganisation reserve balances, which are presented as if TSB From 1 January 2014 the Group changed its accounting policy Banking Group plc had been the parent company during both for recognising the costs of the UKs FSCS levy to reflect years presented see note 23. guidance provided in IFRIC 21 Levies, an interpretation of IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared The effect of this change in accounting policy, which has been in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and with applied retrospectively with comparative periods restated, is set International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted out in note 35. by the European Union EU.
IFRS comprises accounting standards prefixed IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Critical accounting estimates and judgements Standards Board IASB and those prefixed IAS, issued by the The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IASBs predecessor body, as well as interpretations issued IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and by the IFRIC and its predecessor body.
The Group has taken assumptions in applying the accounting policies that affect the advantage of relaxations in hedge accounting requirements reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
in the EU endorsed version of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual Recognition and Measurement adopted by the EU which are results reported in future periods may be based upon amounts not available in the version issued by the IASB.
which differ from those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on The consolidated financial statements have been prepared historical experience and other factors, including expectations under the historical cost convention as modified by the of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the revaluation of financial derivative contracts at fair value circumstances.
through profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to The significant judgements made by management in applying adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated accounting policies and the key sources of estimation financial statements.
uncertainty in these consolidated financial statements, which together are deemed critical to the results and financial position, are presented within the components of the Groups business model as shown in the table below.
These areas are discussed in detail by the Audit Committee as set out on page51 of the Governance section.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Note Effective interest rate methodology 1 Impairment provisioning 10 Recoverability of deferred tax assets 20 Customer remediation provision 33 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
