141 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 36.
Future accounting developments The following pronouncements may impact the Groups consolidated financial statements but are not applicable for the year ended 31 December 2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The full impact of these accounting changes is being assessed by the Group.
Pronouncement Nature of Change IASB effective date IFRS 9 Replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 Annual periods Financial requires financial assets to be classified into three measurement categories: fairvalue: beginning on or after Instruments amortised cost: and fair value through other comprehensive income, on the basis 1 January 2018 of the objective of the entitys business model for managing its financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
The requirements for derecognition are unchanged from IAS 39.
The standard also retains most of the IAS 39 requirements for financial liabilities except for those designated at fair value through profit or loss whereby that part of the fair value change attributable to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income.
Changes are also made to the impairment of financial assets measured at amortised cost, which will be based on expected rather than incurred credit losses.
The hedge accounting requirements are more closely aligned with risk management practices and follow amore principlebased approach.
The impact of IFRS 9 on the Group is still being assessed.
IFRS 15 Replaces IAS 18 Revenue and other existing revenue recognition interpretations Annual periods Revenue from andrequires revenue to be recognised when goods or services are transferred beginning on or after Contracts with tocustomers and at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects 1 January 2017 Customers to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard does not apply to financial instruments or lease contracts.
The impact of IFRS15is still being assessed.
As at 24 February 2015, this pronouncement is awaiting EU endorsement.
Approval of the consolidated financial statements These consolidated financial statements were approved by the Directors of TSB Banking Group plc on 24 February 2015.
The ultimate controlling party of the Group is Lloyds Banking Group plc which is incorporated in Scotland.
Copies of the consolidated annual report and accounts of Lloyds Banking Group plc may be obtained from Lloyds Banking Groups head officeat 25 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7HN or downloaded via www.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
