129 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 25.
C redit risk continued At 31 December 2014, impaired unsecured and business banking lending amounted to 30.9 million 2013: 36.0 million, netofan impairment allowance of 46.3 million 2013: 56.0 million.
Non-mortgage retail lending is unsecured, with no collateral held inrespect of retail credit cards, overdrafts or unsecured personal loans.
For business banking lending, collateral primarily consists of second charges over commercial and residential property.
Where collateral is held, lending decisions are predominantly based on an obligors ability to repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on any collateral provided.
Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination and reassessed if there is observable evidence of distress of the borrower.
At 31 December 2014, credit risk is mitigated by collateral held of 182.8million 2013: 245.1 million.
iv Collateral repossessed 2014 2013 million million Residential property 15.6 12.9 Total collateral repossessed 15.6 12.9 The Group does not take physical possession of properties or other assets held as collateral and uses external agents to realise the value as soon as practicable, generally at auction, to settle indebtedness.
Any surplus funds are returned to the borrower or are otherwise dealt with in accordance with appropriate insolvency regulations.
v Treatment of customers experiencing financial stress The Group operates a number of schemes to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these schemes through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out on page 93.
Funding and liquidity risk Definition and exposure Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stableand diverse sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
Liquidity exposure represents the mismatch of potential outflows in any future period measured against expected inflows.
Liquidity risk is managed, monitored and measured from both aninternal and regulatory perspective.
Sources of funding The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customer current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have historically in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
The Group therefore has minimal requirement for wholesale funding.
The Groups funding structure also helps to reduce the amount of liquidity that the Group is required to hold.
In May 2014, the Group exited the LBG UK defined Liquidity Group and established a standalone liquid asset portfolio.
At31 December 2014, the Groups primary liquidity portfolio totalled 4,509.0 million of which 4,169.3 million was held on deposit with the Bank of England, and 339.7 million was held in a portfolio of UK gilts.
Prior to this, all liquidity was held on deposit with LBG.
Risk appetite The funding and liquidity risk appetite for the Group is set and approved annually by the Groups Board.
Risk is reported against this appetite through various metrics to enable the Group to manage the funding and liquidity position.
The risk appetite is established under a liquidity risk management framework that ensures that the Group has sufficient financial resources of appropriate quality for the Groups funding profile.
Measurement and monitoring A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short term and long term liquidity.
Liquidity is measured quantitatively and qualitatively on a daily basis and reported internally.
Daily liquidity reporting is actively monitored and monthly reporting procedures are in place to update and inform senior management.
All liquidity policies and procedures are subject to periodic independent internal oversight.
The loan to deposit ratio is one of the risk appetite measures that is used to monitor the shape of the balance sheet.
Contractual maturities for financial liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
Thetable overleaf analyses the financial liabilities of the Group by relevant contractual maturity grouping on an undiscounted future cash flow basis based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date.
Balances with no fixed maturity are included in the over five years category.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
