109 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Loans For more information: Business model Page 6 Business review Page 22 Funds deposited with the Group are primarily used to support lending to customers.
The Group lends money to customers using different products, including mortgages, credit cards, unsecured personal loans and overdrafts.
A portion of the funds deposited with the Group are held in reserve we call that our liquidity portfolio, which enables the Group to meet unexpected future funding requirements.
Accounting policies relevant to loans in the income statement in net interest income.
On disposal, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other b Financial assets comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets is the term used to describe the Groups loans to customers and other institutions.
It includes loans and iii Repurchase agreements advances to customers, loans and advances to banks, availableFinancial instruments sold under a repurchase agreement, for-sale financial assets, cash and balances with central banks, under which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership items in course of collection from banks and derivative financial are retained by the Group continue to be recognised on the assets see accounting policy k under Managing financial risk.
balance sheet and the sale proceeds are recorded in deposits from banks.
The difference between the sale and repurchase On initial recognition, financial assets which are not derivatives price is recognised over the life of the agreement as interest are classified as loans and receivables or available-for-sale expense using the effective interest method.
Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities are recognised on trade date, being the date that the c Impairment of financial assets Group is committed to purchase or sell an asset.
i Accounted for at amortised cost At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether, as Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to aresult of one or more events occurring after initial recognition, receive cash flows from those assets has expired or when the there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of Group has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash financial assets has become impaired.
flows from the assets and either: If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been Substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership have incurred, an allowance is established which is calculated as the been transferred: or difference between the balance sheet carrying value of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted The Group has neither retained nor transferred substantially at that assets original EIR.
If an asset has a variable interest all of the risks and rewards, but has transferred control.
rate, the discount rate used for measuring the impairment lossisthe current EIR.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables include loans and advances to Subsequent to the recognition of an impairment loss on a customers, loans and advances to banks and other eligible financial asset or a group of financial assets, interest income assets.
Loans and advances are initially recognised when cash continues to be recognised on an EIR basis, on the assets is advanced to the borrower at fair value inclusive of transaction carrying value net of impairment provisions.
If, in a subsequent costs or, for other eligible assets, their fair value at the date of period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the acquisition.
Financial assets classified as loans and receivables decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after are accounted for at amortised cost using the effective interest the impairment was recognised, such as an improvement in method less provision for impairment.
the borrowers credit rating, the allowance is adjusted and the amount of the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Where the Group enters into securitisation transactions to finance certain loans and advances to customers using a ii Collective basis structured entity funded by the issue of debt, these loans and Impairment allowances for portfolios of homogenous loans advances continue to be recognised by the Group together with such as residential mortgages, personal loans and credit card a corresponding liability for the funding where the Group retains balances, and for loan losses that have been incurred but not control of the structured entity.
separately identified at the balance sheet date, are determined on a collective basis.
ii Available-for-sale financial assets The Group classifies financial assets as available-for-sale when iii Homogenous groups of loans the instruments are not derivatives and are not held for trading Impairment is assessed on a collective basis for homogenous purposes or otherwise designated at fair value through profit groups of loans that are not considered individually impaired.
or loss, or at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale investments are The asset is included in a group of financial assets with held at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assessed fair value recognised in other comprehensive income.
calculated using the effective interest method and is recognised TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
