59 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Policy report This section of the report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The aim of the Policy is to providecompetitive remuneration that is aligned to the delivery of the Groups strategic goals, promotes its values  business performance.
Shareholder approval will be sought for the Policy at the Groups 2015 AGM in accordance with section 439A of the CompaniesAct 2006, and, if adopted, will be effective from that date.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy annually to ensure that it continues to be aligned with the business strategy and enables the Group to both attract and retain talented individuals.
The Policy is intended to cover at least one year following adoption.
As this is anew policy, implemented against abackground of regulatory change, it will be reviewed in application over the coming period.
Should changes be required then we will revert to shareholders, consulting on any substantiverevisions, and seek approval for any changes in the normal way.
TSB remuneration policy for Executive Directors The Groups policy in respect of each component of remuneration for Executive Directors is set out below.
Basic salary Purpose and link to To provide Executive Directors with core remuneration taking into account relevant market benchmarks, strategic objectives complexity of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
Operation Basic salaries are usually reviewed annually, with any changes for Executive Directors normally becoming effective from1April.
Basic salaries are reviewed taking into account anumber of factors, including: Performance of the Group and individual: and Any changes in responsibilities, basic salary and total compensation levels for similar roles at companies ofasimilar size and complexity.
Maximum There is no formal maximum to basic salary or basic salary increases.
When considering any increase the Committee will take account of relevant factors, such as achange in the business, significant change to the opportunity role, development within the role or regulatory changes.
The Committee will also take into account basic salary movements both in the wider market and elsewhere withinTSB.
Performance metrics Individual performance against role requirements and personal objectives will be one of the principal considerations in reviewing basic salary levels.
Pension Purpose and link to To provide Executive Directors with postretirement income.
strategic objectives Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the TSB Defined Contribution pension scheme.
Executive Directors may receive acash allowance of equivalent value in lieu of apension contribution.
Maximum Executive Directors may receive apension contribution of 20% of basic salary.
opportunity Performance metrics No performance conditions areapplied.
Benefits Purpose and link to To provide benefits comparable to those available for similar roles in similar companies.
strategic objectives Operation Executive Directors receive benefits including acar allowance, funds to participate in the Groups flexible benefits scheme which may be taken as acash allowance, private medical insurance and lifeassurance.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any allemployee share plans operated by the Group onthesame basis as other eligiblePartners.
Additional benefits may beprovided in specific circumstances e. g. relocationallowances.
Maximum There is no formal cap on the value of benefits.
However, the total cost of benefits is set taking into account anumber of factors including an assessment ofoverall spend against relevant market data.
opportunity The Committee reserves the right to exercise discretion and make changes to benefits provided when required.
Performance metrics No performance conditions areapplied.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 1.
TSB remuneration policy for Executive Directors continued Short Term Incentive TSB Award Purpose and link to To reward the achievement of annual business and personal performance targets, aligning any award with strategic objectives strategic business goals.
To align all Partners behind common goals and acommon plan to assist in building apartnership culture.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in our short term incentive plan the TSB Award.
To be considered for an award, corporate and individual performance gateways must be satisfied.
The TSB Award is subject to the Committee assuring itself that there is sufficient Management Profit to justify the award.
The award level is determined by the Committee based upon actual performance against targets set at the beginning of the performance year.
The core award is the same percentage of basic salary for all eligible Partners.
For Executive Directors the award will be paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
The share portion will be delivered under the 2014 Share Plan as adopted at listing and may be subject to aholding period as required by the regulations.
For Executive Directors, aportion of the TSB Award may be deferred to meet regulatory requirements.
Dividend equivalents may be awarded on the share portion of the award until the end of the holding period.
Malus and clawback provisions apply for Executive Directors TSB Awards which may be reduced or not delivered where there has been: i Material misstatement of audited financial returns: and or ii Reasonable evidence of employee misconduct or material error: and or iii A material failure of risk management, and or iv A material downturn in financial performance.
Following the delivery of TSB Awards amounts may be subject to clawback where any of i iii above occur.
These provisions will apply for seven years from the grant of an award or any longer period required by .
Maximum The TSB core award may vary between 0% and 15% of basic salaries.
opportunity At on-target performance the award will produce acore award of 10% of basic salaries.
Exceptional individual performers which may include Executive Directors may receive an award higher than the core award.
For all Partners, including Executive Directors, the maximum potential individual TSB Award is two times the core award in any given year.
In ayear when the core award is 15% the maximum individual award for an Executive Director would be 30% of basic salary see note below.
Similarly, azero award can be applied if warranted.
Awards are made in acombination of shares and cash.
The shares awarded will be subject to the Executive Directors shareholding requirement.
Performance metrics The overall TSB Award level is based on the Committees assessment of performance against predetermined measures.
These measures currently include but are not limited to customer outcomes, financial resilience and strategicdelivery.
For any Award to be granted, threshold corporate and individual performance gateways must be passed.
At aGroup level there will also be risk, capital and sustainable financial performance gateways.
At an individual level there must have been at least satisfactory performance.
All performance outcomes are subject to Committee discretion.
The Committee will wish to assure itself that outcomes are reflective of underlying, sustainable business performance and the effective management of the Groups risk profile in line with the Groups desired riskappetite.
In the Prospectus TSB announced that the TSB target award level will not exceed 10% of basic salary, with the maximum award level not exceeding 15% of basic salary.
With the extension of the TSB Award to all Partners in 2015 the Policy described above will be applied in future.
The Committee believes that it is consistent with the underlying principle of asingle award plan for all Partners that Executive Directors should be eligible for an award on the same basis as every other Partner in the Group while remaining subject to the 1:1 cap.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 1.
TSB remuneration policy for Executive Directors continued Sustainable Performance Award Purpose and link to To reward sustained business performance over time and to closely align senior Partners interests with those strategic objectives of other stakeholders.
Operation Executive Directors and other senior Partners are eligible to participate in the SPA.
The SPA is funded subject to there being sufficient remaining profit to warrant the award after funding for the TSB Award has been made to the wider Partner group.
Awards are made in the form of cash and shares.
For Executive Directors 70% of the award will be delivered in shares which are subject to aholding period as required by the regulations.
The award pool for aparticular performance year is determined by reference to corporate performance assessed against measures set at the start of the performance year.
The Committee may apply its discretion in determining the final award pool, taking into account underlying performance, risk considerations and appropriate profit distribution.
Individual awards are determined based on individual performance.
Awards vest in tranches over afive year period post grant subject to sustained corporate and individual performance measures being met.
If atranche does not vest in whole or in part, any unvested amount from that tranche is forfeit.
SPA awards may be reduced or cancelled prior to vesting where there has been: i Material misstatement of audited financial results: and or ii Reasonable evidence of employee misconduct or material error, and or iii A material failure of risk management, and or iv A material downturn in financial performance.
Following the vesting of SPA Awards amounts may be subject to clawback where any of i iii above occur.
Maximum The SPA award will have an on-target initial award value of 62.5% of basic salary and amaximum award value opportunity of100% of basic salary in respect of any one year.
Performance metrics Performance targets, used to determine the award pool size, will be abalanced scorecard of measures.
Thesemeasures currently include but are not limited to customer service outcomes, financial resilience, strategicdelivery and assessment of personal performance.
Achievement against these targets is measured over aone year period prior to grant and afinal decision on grant levels will be made by the Committee.
Vesting is subject to corporate and individual performance release conditions over the vesting period, including: Corporate: Meeting sustainable financial performance targets achieved within risk appetite and without any material regulatory or compliance failures.
Individual: Appropriate personal conduct including risk management and, adherence to regulatory and .
The Committee may exercise discretion to reduce the proportion of the award that vests if targets have not beenwholly achieved.
Performance measures TSB Award and SPA Award The performance measures for the TSB Award and SPA have been chosen to support the delivery of the Groups strategy, providing abalance between rewarding Partners for meeting financial and non-financial targets for the year and ensuring appropriate risk, compliance, conduct and customer outcomes.
The precise targets are set by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure Executive Directors are focused on the Groups key objectives.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee takes into account anumber of internal and external reference points, including the Groups business plan.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 62 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 1.
TSB remuneration policy for Executive Directors continued Legacy matters As disclosed in the Prospectus, the Executive Directors hold legacy awards granted by LBG prior to listing.
These awards will subsist or will be replaced by broadly equivalent awards made by TSB such that no individual should either be disadvantaged or gain significantly as aresult of listing.
Most legacy awards remain under the governance of LBG and its Remuneration Committee.
The legacy awards over which the TSB Remuneration Committee does have oversight are as follows: LBG 2013 LTIP If LBG ceases to hold amajority of shares in the Group the LBG LTIP awards may lapse on atime proand 2014 LTIP rated basis with the participants becoming good leavers under the LBG LTIP.
To reflect the impact that the prorating will have on employees awards, the Committee intends to grant awards over TSB shares Substitution Awards under the TSB 2014 Share Plan, adopted on listing.
The value of the TSB shares used for these Substitution Awards will reflect the value forfeited on becoming agood leaver from LBG before the application of performance conditions.
The Substitution Awards will vest on the same original vesting dates as the LBG awards that they replace.
On vesting both the LBG good leaver awards and the Substitution Awards will be subject to their respective performance conditions.
Vesting of the Substitution Awards will be subject to the achievement of abalanced scorecard of TSB performance measures, replicating the LBG arrangement.
It should be noted that the Substitution Awards described in this section do not count towards the calculation of the 1:1 cap since they will replace aforfeited award from LBG.
This treatment is in accordance with the PRAs Remuneration Code.
LBG legacy bonus Executive Directors participated in the LBG annual bonus scheme for the period up to listing.
The maximum opportunities under this scheme for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were 130% and 100% of basic salary respectively.
To honour these preexisting commitments, the Committee determined that awards should be made to the Executive Directors, reflecting legacy entitlements under this plan, pro rated to reflect the period of time up to listing and with awards based on TSB performance against abalanced scorecard of metrics agreed at the start of the performance year.
To replicate the LBG policy at least 40% of these awards will be deferred into shares in TSB and released over athree year period beginning with the first anniversary of award.
Deferred share awards are subject to malus and clawback as well as forfeiture rules similar to those applied by LBG.
As alegacy award the Executive Directors will not be required to retain these shares towards their overall shareholding requirement.
Legacy awards that remain subject to LBG Remuneration Committee governance and oversight are as follows: L BG Deferred Bonus Awards.
Legacy deferred amounts relating to bonuses awarded by LBG prior to 2014 will be released to participants by LBG on exactly thesame terms as were set at the time of award, prior to listing, including the same release dates and ability for LBG to enforce malus clawback if deemed appropriate.
LBG determined that the Executive Directors would be eligible to receive aVerde Completion Award following listing, subject to the individuals satisfactory performance up to listing, the achievement of key corporate milestones and the individuals continued employment on the payment date.
The maximum payments that may be made by LBG to Paul Pester and Darren Pope are 405,000 and 247,550 respectively.
Any payments will be made as soon as reasonably practicable after the first anniversary of listing.
These payments are subject to meeting certain targets and remain subject to performance adjustment at the discretion of the LBG Remuneration Committee.
The performance period for this award ended on 31 December 2014.
AsLBG still retained amajority shareholding in TSB at that time, the awards will vest on exactly the same basis as for LBG participants.
2 013 LTIP and 2014 LTIP good leaver portions.
If LBG ceases to hold amajority of shares in TSB the LBG 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards may lapse on atime pro-rated basis with the participants becoming good leavers under that plan.
The portion of awards that subsist under the good leaver treatment, will vest on exactly the same basis as for LBG participants, subject to the time proration referred to above.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at atime when the relevant individual was not aDirector of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming aDirector of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award or option over shares, the terms of the payment agreed at the time the award is granted.
Adjustments and Corporate events: Awards may be adjusted in the event of avariation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event that in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
Performance conditions applicable to the SPA awards may be amended if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that an amended condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
In the event of atakeover of the Company, awards will normally vest at the time of the takeover to the extent the Committee determines, taking into account any relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time between the grant date and the date of the takeover.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
In the event the Company is wound up or may be affected by ademerger, delisting, special dividend or other event, which may, in the Committees opinion affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, awards may be allowed to vest on the same basis as atakeover.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 2.
Non-executive Directors Fees The Groups policy in respect of Nonexecutive Directors fees is set out below.
Purpose and link To attract and retain high performing Nonexecutive Directors with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
tostrategy Operation Non-executive Directors receive abasic annual fee and additional fees for additional Committee responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed regularly and adjusted when required.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed regularly by the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are responsible for determining all other Nonexecutive Director fees.
In setting Nonexecutive Directors fees account is taken of the responsibilities of the role and time commitment required, the fee levels in organisations of asimilar size within the financial services sector and any fee increases will be considered in the context of pay increases for Executive Directors and the wider Partner population.
Expenses incurred in the performance of nonexecutive duties may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
The Chairman is provided with secretarial support and may have the use of adriver if required.
Nonexecutive Directors are not eligible to participate in TSBs inyear or long term schemes, or the allemployee share plans.
Nonexecutive Directors are not entitled to any payment for loss of office.
Notice of the termination of their appointment by the Nonexecutive Director is one month to the Company.
Notice from the Company is in accordance with TSBs Articles of Association.
Opportunity Fees are set at alevel which is considered appropriate without paying more than is necessary to attract and retain the calibre ofindividual required by the Company.
Additional fees are paid for performing additional Committee responsibilities, forexample: Senior Independent Director: Committee Chairman: and Committee membership.
The current fee levels for Nonexecutive Directors are outlined in the annual Report on Remuneration.
The Chairman did not benefit from the provision of adriver in 2014.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The Policy for Executive Directors is aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration across the Group.
The remuneration structure has been designed to be easy to understand, transparent and to foster apartnership culture.
It is important that the remuneration approach reflects the Groups core values and business strategy.
As such, it is based on the principles set out below: Principle Policy Transparent and inclusive Reward approach will be kept consistent for all Partners.
reward structures Ensuring alignment with shareholders by carefully balancing afocus on profitability, customer service Reward directly linked to theachievement and strategic delivery and including conduct, risk and compliance gateways and malus clawback ofsustainable performance provisions.
Ensure abalanced view Looking at all elements of reward, maintaining the 1:1 ratio between fixed and variable elements.
ofreward Overall expected value Is fair and reasonable to reflect the size and scope of the roles and comparable to similar positions at other financial services companies.
As part of acomprehensive review of remuneration undertaken during 2014, the Group extended the TSB Award to all Partners from 1 January 2015.
The TSB Award replaces all previous inyear awards, including sales incentive plans, and gives all Partners the same on-target award opportunity expressed as apercentage of basic salary.
Basic salaries have been adjusted where necessary to reflect the lower variable element of pay.
This adjustment has taken into account comparative market data to ensure that the overall reward potential remains competitive.
The Group consulted with Trade Unions about plans to roll out the new arrangements to all its Partners.
However, Partners were not consulted directly on the Directors remuneration policy.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The ontarget TSB Award is 10% of basic salary and the core award pool can range from 0% to 15% of basic salaries based on the Groups performance.
The award will take account of the Groups ability to pay, as there must be sufficient profit to warrant the total cost of the award in each year.
Partners must also meet an expected level of personal performance, as measured by the Groups Partner Performance process, to receive an award.
The very best performers could receive up to two times the core award paid to other Partners in any one year.
The funding of the TSB Award will be determined by the Committee taking into account the overall performance of the Group.
This, in turn, determines the level of the core award.
Selected senior Partners will be eligible to participate in the SPA.
Eligibility relates to senior responsibilities and currently extends to fewer than 150 individuals.
Awards to all Partners will be made on the same criteria and using the same performance measures as the awards made to Executive Directors.
Awards will only be made if there is sufficient profit to meet the cost, after the cost of the TSB Award has been met.
No Partner will receive aSPA in excess of 100% of basic salary in any one year and total variable pay will not exceed fixed pay when calculated according to the Remuneration Code in any one year.
At listing, all employees were given the title of Partner and granted 100 of shares in the Group, to reinforce the partnership concept and to build Partner share ownership.
All new Partners will similarly be granted 100 in shares and Partners are required to retain these shares in order to be eligible to participate in the TSB Award.
Recruitment policy 4.1 Principles In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments to the Board including internal promotions, theCommittee applies the following principles: Any arrangements should be in the best interests of the Group and shareholders, delivering market competitive levels of remuneration without paying more than is necessary: All relevant factors should be taken into account, including the calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, market practice external benchmarking of levels of total remuneration, the individuals current remuneration package, the Groups Remuneration Policy, internal relativities and existing arrangements for other Directors: and The new appointee will have or be transitioned onto aremuneration package that is in line with the policy tables presented above.
Specific provisions may be made: for example, where an Executive Director is required to work at alocation which is not in proximity to his or her home additional benefits such as relocation costs and housing allowance may be provided.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet exceptional individual circumstances.
This might, for example, be if an interim Executive Director were to be required on ashort term basis, or if exceptional circumstances dictate that the Chairman or aNon-executive Director takes on an executive role on ashort term basis.
Any such arrangements would be reported to shareholders in the normal way.
4.2 Buy-outs To facilitate recruitment, the Committee may make an award to buy out rewards and any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving aprevious employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of any terms attached to forfeited arrangements, including any performance conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, theproportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
Buy-out awards will be made on acomparable basis to those forfeited and will not be more generous than the value of the forfeited award, both in quantum and vesting timetable.
Any share awards would generally be made under the 2014 Share Plan adopted upon listing.
Thevesting of such awards will, in all cases, be dependent on satisfactory personal performance during the period in question, and will lapse if the individual resigns or is dismissed for gross misconduct.
In considering its approach, the Committee will give due regard to all relevant factors including, but not limited to, quantum, thenature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 4.3 Maximum level of variable pay The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Executive Directors in respect of their appointment shall be limited to 100% of fixed pay, calculated in accordance with the applicable Remuneration Code provisions and excluding any awards made to compensate the Executive Director for rewards forfeited on leaving their previous employer.
4.4 Recruitment of Non-executive Directors In the event of the appointment of anew Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table above.
It is not anticipated that buyout arrangements will apply, or that any variable awards will be made.
Executive Director share ownership guidelines Under the Groups share ownership guidelines, Executive Directors are expected to build up, over time, apersonal shareholding equivalent in value to 200% of basic salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of basic salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Ordinary shareholding values will be based on historical investment value or value on vesting if arising from incentive plans.
Sharesvesting after the payment of tax under such arrangements would, unless the Committee determines otherwise, normally have to be held until these requirements have been met.
For the avoidance of doubt, any TSB shares acquired as aresult of participation in an LBG Legacy arrangement will be excluded from this requirement.
Thus, for example, shares acquired as part of the LBG Legacy Bonus provisions would be excluded from this requirement.
The Committee is aware that the most recent guidelines on share ownership suggest that ashareholding of 200% of basic salary should apply to all Executive Directors.
In light of the current levels of Executive Director shareholding this issue will be further considered as individual holdings grow.
Executive Director service contracts The key employment terms and other conditions for Executive Directors, as stipulated in the current Executive Directors service contracts, are set out below.
Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by the Company: and Six months notice by the Executive Director.
Termination payment The Group may, at any time in its absolute discretion, elect to terminate employment by paying to the Executive, in lieu of the notice period referred to above, the equivalent of the basic salary for the period.
Anypayments in lieu of notice may be paid in instalments and be subject to mitigation.
Remuneration The operation of all reward plans, including the TSB Award and Sustainable Performance Award and benefits isnon-contractual: and Contractual benefits for Executive Directors comprise Group pension contribution of 20%, which may betaken as cash, acar allowance or anon-pensionable cash allowance, flex benefits to the value of 4% ofbasic salary, life cover equal to four times basic salary, private medical cover and annual health screening.
Payment for loss of office In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of the relevant reward plans.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of the reward plans under which Executive Directors may currently hold awards: Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for good leaver Treatment for any other leaver TSB Award Illhealth, injury or disability Leavers during the performance period Not eligible for an award are eligible to participate subject to Retirement performance and unless the Committee Death in service determines otherwise taking into Sale of employing entity out of TSB consideration time served.
Redundancy Leavers after the end of the performance period will receive the award in full.
Other scenarios in the Committees discretion TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for good leaver Treatment for any other leaver Sustainable Illhealth, injury or disability Unvested awards will vest on the normal Awards lapse in full Performance Award vesting date, unless the Committee whether or not vested Death determines the award will vest earlier, in Sale of employing entity out of TSB either case, taking into account the extent Other scenarios at the Committees applicable performance conditions discretion except where participant have been satisfied, and, unless the is summarily dismissed Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from grant to the date of the individuals cessation of office or employment.
If an individual dies holding unvested awards, awards will normally vest as soon as practicable following the individuals death.
LBG legacy deferred Illhealth, injury or disability Awards continue until the normal vesting Awards lapse in full bonus awarded by date, unless LBGs Remuneration Retirement LBG pre 2014 Committee determines the award will Redundancy vest earlier.
Death If an individual dies holding awards, they Sale of employing entity out of LBG will normally vest as soon as practicable following the individuals death.
Other scenarios at the LBGs Remuneration Committees discretion except where participant is summarily dismissed All employee Leaver treatment under these plans will be in accordance with HMRC rules.
shareplans 2014 LBG bonus Leaver treatment will be on the same terms as the SPA.
LBG 2013 and 2014 As disclosed in the prospectus, the outstanding LBG LTIP awards made to participants by LBG prior to LTIP Admission continue to subsist.
When LBG ceases to have control of TSB, the participants will be treated as good leavers and their awards will therefore vest on the original vesting date but will be reduced based on the proportion of the performance period elapsed at the date of the cessation of control.
These subsisting LBG LTIP awards are subject to the following leaver provisions.
If prior to LBG ceasing to have control of TSB and the normal vesting date, aparticipant leaves TSB for reason of illhealth, injury, disability, retirement, the sale of their employing entity out of the Group, redundancy or for any other reason determined by the Committee, the individual will be treated as agood leaver.
In these good leaver circumstances awards will either vest on the normal vesting date or on the individual cessation of office or employment at the Committees discretion to the extent the performance conditions have been met and the performance period has elapsed.
In any other circumstance the awards will lapse in full.
Non-executive Directors Nonexecutive Directors do not have service contracts, but hold letters of appointment.
The initial term of appointment is usuallythree years.
Two Non-executive Directors Norval Bryson and Godfrey Robson were appointed for an initial period to the firstAGM.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Thekey employment termsof the current Non-executive Directors are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period Nonexecutive Directors are required to provide onemonths notice.
Termination payment No payment in lieu of notice or other termination payments will be made.
Remuneration Reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of duties will be reimbursed or paid for directly by the and benefits Company as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
Nonexecutive Directors may not participate in the Companys incentive plans.
Nonexecutive Directors appointed by LBG in accordance with the Relationship Agreement are subject to the same terms as other Nonexecutive Directors.
Nonexecutive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the AGM.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 9.
Illustration of the remuneration policy Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may Paul Pester Darren Pope be received under different performance outcomes to be 2000 1500 reasonable in the context of the performance delivered and the 1,787,500 value added for shareholders.
1,339,500 1600 1,031,875 1,385,000 39% 1000 The charts provide illustrative values of the forward looking, full 40% 1200 32% year remuneration package awarded to Executive Directors 32% 877,500 12% 5% under three assumed performance scenarios.
These charts are 644,000 12% 800 5% 500 for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
The charts do not factor in any share price 100% 63% 49% 400 100% 63% 48% appreciation or dividends dividend equivalents that may be paid to participants nor do they reflect the impact of not meeting 0 0 Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum vesting conditions for the SPA.
 performance performance expectations performance Sustainable Performance Award TSB award Fixed pay, including pension and benets Note: In reference to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer tables above the calculation of pay and the 1:1 cap is determined according to the relevant regulatory requirements.
Thecalculation of fixed pay includes basic salary, pension contribution, flex allowance and car allowance.
Variable pay includes any TSB Award and any SPA award.
However, because of the deferred nature of the SPA the initial award value is discounted in line with the regulations when calculating the cap.
With the current structure of fixed pay the maximum TSB Award 30% of basic salary combined with the maximum SPA 100% of basic salary would not breach the 1:1cap due to the permitted SPA discount.
Theabove illustrations do not include the SPA discount.
When this adjustment is made the total variable award TSB Award plus SPA falls below the total fixed pay at Maximum Performance.
Assumed performance Assumptions used Fixed pay All performance Consists of total fixed pay, including basic salary, benefits and pension scenarios Basic salary basic salary effective as at 1 January 2015 and 1 April for the Chief Financial Officer Benefits based on benefits expected to be paid in 2015 Pension 20% of basic salary Variable pay Minimum No TSBAward performance No SPA award Performance in line TSB Award of 10% of basicsalary withexpectations SPA award of 62.5% of basic salary which vests in five annual tranches subject to sustained performance Maximum TSB Award of 30% of basicsalary performance SPA award of 100% of basic salary which vests in five annual tranches subject to sustained performance 10.
Consideration of wider employee pay 11.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes into consideration the pay and The Committee has borne in mind shareholder views and best conditions of our Partners across the Group when determining practice guidelines during the year and has provided details remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
In particular, above of consultation undertaken in formulating the Policy the Committee pays attention to the general level of basic salary set out in this Report.
The Committee continues to be mindful increases and TSB Award outcomes within the wider population.
of shareholder views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy and consultation with shareholders Information relating to wider workforce remuneration is will continue infuture prior to any significant changes to the provided in regular updates to the Committee including Remuneration Policy being proposed.
Minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy Whilst the Committee does not directly consult with Partners The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy to aid as part of the process of determining executive pay, the vast in its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder majority of our Partners are shareholders and so are able to approval for arevision to this Policy provided the changes do express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
