70 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 2.
2014 Awards 2.1 Legacy LBG Bonus audited As set out above, the Executive Directors were eligible to receive an award under the Legacy LBG Bonus scheme in respect of the period prior to listing.
The legacy bonus arrangements were aligned to the opportunity and performance metrics communicated by LBG to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of TSB for 2014 and prior to the separation of TSB from LBG.
The maximum opportunity under the scheme for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer was 130% and 100% respectively of prelisting basic salary, time prorated for the relevant prelisting period.
The Committee assessed the corporate and individual performance during the pre-listing period against the TSB scorecard set at the beginning of the financial year to determine the level of award to be made to the Executive Directors.
Asummary of the measures against which the Legacy LBG Bonus was assessed is set out below.
The Committee considers more granular details to be commercially sensitive.
2014 Legacy LBG Bonus performance assessment Primary corporate Ensure that legal agreements are in place with LBG to enable the effective separation of the two banks objectives Complete asuccessful IPO of TSB Increase the share of PCA flows Meet market expectations for TSB performance Key transitional Negotiate the legal separation from LBG, including the Separation Agreement, Relationship Agreement objectives andIT Agreement Develop astandalone business plan and present to shareholders in the Prospectus and investor meetings Complete asuccessful IPO of TSB Standard Lloyds Achievement against ascorecard of metrics which are categorised into Banking Group i customer, ii people, iii building the business, iv risk and v financial balanced scorecard Based on the Committees assessment against these targets, it has been determined that the legacy LBG bonus award payable to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively will be 130% and 100% as aproportion of basic salary for the period.
Part of the bonus payable will be delivered in shares 60% for the Chief Executive Officer and 40% for the Chief Financial Officer which will be released in equal tranches over three years.
The remaining 40% 60% of the bonus will be released in 2015, split equally between shares and cash.
All shares released to the Executive Directors will be required to be held for aminimum of an additional six months but will not count towards the TSB shareholding requirement.
2.2 TSB Award During 2014, as part of the creation of TSB as astandalone bank, TSB designed anew reward framework based on our partnership model.
As part of this, all TSB Partners will be eligible to receive an annual TSB Award, under which all Partners, including Executive Directors, will have the same ontarget level of 10% of basic salary.
This plan has been extended to all Partners from the start of 2015.
As acommitment to the forward looking strategy, the Executive Directors waived their entitlement to the legacy LBG annual bonus from listing to the end of 2014, in favour of the new TSB framework, including eligibility to receive aTSB Award.
The process for determining the TSB Award for all Partners including Executive Directors is as follows: i Gateway tests Assess whether profitability and risk management gateways have been satisfied at aCorporate Level.
ii Corporate performance assessment Assess Corporate performance against pre-determined Key Performance Indicators KPIs to determine the core award size and overall funding for the year.
iii Individual performance assessment Assess individual performance to ensure all individuals have met minimum individual performance criteria to be eligible for the award and identify any exceptional performance in the year which may warrant an enhanced Pioneer award up to twice the core award.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 2014 TSB Award out-turn Gateway tests The Committee reviewed the Groups performance against the profitability and risk management gateways: Profitability gateway: The Committee is comfortable that there are sufficient profits to warrant the 2014 TSB Award and that the profits adequately reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Risk management gateway: The Committee reviewed and reflected upon the Groups risk management, asreported by the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
This included consideration of there having been no material regulatory or compliance issues, no serious breaches of the liquidity or capital risk appetite policies and asatisfactory control environment throughout 2014.
Against that background, the Committee determined that the Group had met both corporate gatewayrequirements.
Customer Outcomes 50% At TSB, the customer is at the heart of the business strategy Corporate performance The Committee has assessed the Groups performance against key performance indicators measuring assessment customer satisfaction net promoter score NPS, the provision of advice to our customers and effectively and promptly dealing with any complaints.
At the 2014 yearend, the Groups NPS was positive and above the target.
TSB maintained sales quality above the level expected for the period.
The number of reportable complaints excluding legacy issues aboutpackaged bank accounts stood at 1.0 complaint per 1,000 accounts for the year.
The Committee has therefore determined that TSB exceeded expectations under this category.
Financial Resilience 25% The ongoing financial success of the Group requires the Group to generate sustainable profits The Committee has assessed the Groups 2014 profits and their quality.
TSB exceeded the target profit through both income performance and effective cost management.
Strategic Delivery 25% Delivery of annual strategic targets is fundamental to the achievement of long term sustainable performance The Committee has assessed the PCA market share flow, the digital penetration of new PCA customers andgross asset flows.
TSB significantly outperformed the PCA market share flow target during 2014 and the proportion of new PCA customers using internet banking exceeded the target set by the Committee.
Whilst TSB achieved agood performance in gross asset flows, we would like to have seen ahigher market share in the branch network.
The Committee has considered progress against the strategic goals and, noted both the significant achievements beyond expectations in two indicators and that the third had not been met in full.
Overall for thepost-listing period, the Committee judged TSB to have achieved an on-target level for Strategic Delivery.
The Committee reflected on the Groups corporate performance against each of these categories and determined that the TSB Award should prudently be funded at the ontarget level of 10% of basic salary prorated for the postlisting period given that this is the first time the Award has been made and that it is applicable only to apart-year of performance.
Individual At an individual level, the Committee reviewed the Executive Directors performance for the period between performance listing and 31 December 2014 in detail see further details in SPA Award summary below.
As part of this assessment assessment, it confirmed that the Executive Directors had demonstrated satisfactory personal conduct with nocompliance or risk breaches throughout 2014 and would be eligible to receive acore TSB Award in respect of 2014 at the ontarget level of 10% of basic salary prorated for the period postlisting.
For the Chief Executive Officer this is an award of 36,167 and for the Chief Financial Officer 23,250.
These amounts are tobe delivered 40% in cash, 60% in shares subject to a6 month holding period.
The shares delivered under this plan will count towards the Executive Director shareholding requirement.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 2.3 SPA Award The process for determining the grant level for SPA Awards for all participants including Executive Directors is as follows: i Assess whether profitability and risk management gateways have been satisfied at aCorporate Level.
ii Assess corporate performance against pre-determined KPIs to determine the SPA pool size.
iii Assess individual performance to determine individual award levels.
SPA Awards are made following the publication of the Groups results i. e. in early 2015 and will vest in five annual tranches.
The first tranche will vest on the first anniversary of the award, subject to the achievement of sustainable performance release conditions including Capital and Liquidity and Regulatory and Compliance gateways as well as cumulative Return on Equity performance targets.
FY1 FY2 FY3 FY4 FY5 FY6 FY7 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Grant based on performance against corporate and Sustained performance individual metrics in the year Individuals Conditional Up to 20% Up to 20% Up to 20% Up to 20% Up to 20% invited to award made vests subject vests subject vests subject vests subject vests subject participate and to release to release to release to release to release informed of conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions performance conditions 2014 SPA grant level audited Gateway tests As with the TSB Award, the Committee reviewed the Groups performance against profitability and risk management gateways, as follows: Profitability gateway: The Committee is satisfied that, after the funding of the TSB Awards, there is sufficient profit to fund the 2014 SPA Award.
Risk management gateway: The Committee reviewed and reflected upon the Groups risk management, asreported by the Chief Risk Officer.
This report included no material regulatory or compliance issues, no serious breaches of the liquidity or capital risk appetite policies and asatisfactory control environment throughout 2014.
Against that background, the Committee determined that the Group had met both of the Corporate gatewayrequirements.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 2014 SPA Award Corporate performance assessment Corporate The Committee reviewed the Groups performance against predetermined criteria, taking into consideration performance performance as awhole, and achievements against the Board approved plan.
assessment The performance categories are the same as the TSB Award because these are considered to be the core drivers of sustainable performance.
However, the weighting given to each category and performance indicatorsvary under the SPA.
Each category has been given equal importance under the SPA in order to ensure abalanced focus on thecoredrivers of sustainable performance in the year for which the Award quantum is determined.
The performance against the corporate performance metrics, as summarised in the table below, was assessed over the complete financial year 2014 for the SPA whereas the TSB Award relates solely to the post-listingperiod.
Customer Outcomes 33.3% At TSB, the customer is at the heart of the business.
The Committee has assessed the Groups performance in this category against key performance indicators measuring customer satisfaction net promoter score NPS, the provision of advice to our customers and effectively and promptly dealing with any complaints.
At the 2014 yearend, the Groups NPS was positive and well above the target.
TSB had maintained the level of sales quality above the level expected by the Committee throughout 2014 and also ensured the number of complaints excluding any legacy issues which are not dealt with promptly stood at 1 complaint per 1,000 accounts.
The Committee has therefore determined that TSB exceeded their expectations under this category.
Financial Resilience 33.3% The ongoing financial success of the Group requires the Group to generate sustainable profits whilst maintaining adequate control over costs.
The Committee has assessed the 2014 profit and operating costs in order to determine the performance under the financial resiliencecategory.
TSB has exceeded the profit target and have operated at alower than planned operational cost base.
The Committee has therefore determined that TSB has exceeded expectation under this category.
Strategic Delivery 33.3% Delivery of annual strategic targets is fundamental to the achievement of long term sustainable performance of the Group.
The Committee has assessed the PCA market share flow, the digital penetration of new PCA customers and gross asset flows.
Whilst TSB achieved agood performance in gross asset flows we would like to have seen ahigher market share in the branch network.
Overall forpost-listing period the committee judged TSBtohave achieved an on-target level Strategic Delivery.
The Committee considered the Groups performance in the round, for 2014 against each of these categories and determined that the SPA Award should be funded above the on target level at 90%.
This reflected the Group exceeding expectations in eight of the nine key corporate metrics considered and its achievement of the completion of asuccessful IPO process.
Whilst the Group achieved agood performance in gross asset flows we would have liked to have seen ahigher market share in the branch network.
Taking into consideration the corporate performance for 2014 as awhole, including the very successful build of the Group and the completion of the IPO process, the award is appropriate compared with the level of the TSB Award which relates only to the postlisting period.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
