98 Risk report Operational risk For more information: Page 15 Risk overview There are several activities undertaken by the Group People risk that create operational risk, and each of them could The Group is asignificant employer in the UK and faces result in a loss for the Group resulting from external anumber of people risks which could impact on the day-to-day events, or from failed internal processes, people risk, operation of services.
The ongoing pace of change and an supplier management or systems failure.
The Group increasingly rigorous regulatory environment may challenge the employs a framework for managing its operational Groups people strategy, remuneration practices and retention risk, with controls to prevent, detect and mitigate of the Groups Partners.
The Group aims to lead responsibly the consequences of operational risk events.
and manage people resource effectively, supporting and developing Partner talent and well-being, and meeting the Third party service provider risk legaland regulatory obligations related to its Partners.
The Group faces inherent risks associated to the ongoing effective delivery of the IT and operational Governance risk services which are outsourced to LBG under the Governance risk arises when our organisational TSA.
These services are subject to robust governance infrastructure of decision making and control frameworks arrangements as specified inthecontracts with LBG.
fails to ensure strategies and management instructions are implemented effectively.
The Group has established Information technology risk governance arrangements to support the effective long The risks arising from the use of IT systems, cyber term operation of the business, maximise shareholder threats leading to information security and data loss and value and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
the running of digital services are managed using an These arrangements areoverseen by the Board.
Information Security framework which includes regular education and awareness training by all Partners and Legal and regulatory active monitoring of threats, resilience and controls.
Due to the nature of the financial services industry, the Group has to comply with a complex legal and regulatory agenda.
Change risk The Group monitors forthcoming regulatory change and As the Group delivers on its strategy, the risk of failure will continue to invest in its people and IT systems to ensure in the change process to deliver the expected benefits, standards are met and maintained.
It continues to benefit or maintain compliance with changing legal and from the investment made by LBG to progress compliance regulatory requirements, ismanaged using a framework with changing regulatory requirements under the TSA.
All of defined processes, monitoring and governance.
legal and regulatory change faced by the Group is managed through an effective governance and oversight framework.
Fraud and financial crime The Group faces potential fraud and financial crime risk in each Financial reporting risk area of operation.
A strong education and awareness training The Group is exposed to the risk of reputational damage, programme is undertaken regularly by all Partners to ensure an loss of investor confidence and financial loss arising from understanding of the threats the Group faces from fraudsters the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective and other criminals including methods used such as cyber controls over financial reporting, failure to manage the crime.
This includes the controls and reporting processes that associated risks of changes in taxation, law, ownership or are in place for dealing with suspicious activity and complying corporate structure and the failure to disclose accurate with regulatory obligations.
The Group employs robust and timely information.
The Group has a strong internal transaction monitoring systems that help to report any unusual control framework designed to mitigate this risk.
customer activity to the appropriate authorities.
Reviews are regularly undertaken, along with business line reporting of key risk indicators, to confirm the effectiveness of the controls the Group has in place to protect against financial crime.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
