158 Additional information Glossary Arrears Core Tier 1 capital A customer is in arrears when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations As defined by the PRA mainly comprising shareholders equity after with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue.
acustomer is also said to be in astate of delinquency and the entire outstanding balance is delinquent.
Core Tier 1 ratio Core Tier 1 capital as apercentage of risk-weighted assets.
Asset Quality Ratio AQR The impairment charge for the year in respect of loans and advances Cost:income ratio to customers expressed as apercentage of average loans and Operating expenses as apercentage of total income.
Coverage ratio Bank Net promoter score NPS Impairment provisions as apercentage of impaired loans.
NPS is based on the question On ascale of 0-10, where 0 is not at all likely and 10 is extremely likely, how likely is it that you would recommend Customer deposits TSB to afriend or colleague?
NPS is the percentage of TSB customers Money deposited by account holders.
Such funds are recorded as who score 9-10 after subtracting the percentage who score 0-6. liabilities of the Group.
Basel II Delinquency The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on See Arrears.
Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards.
Expected Loss EL Expected loss represents the anticipated loss, in the event of default, Basel III on a credit risk exposure modelled under the internal ratings based The capital reforms and introduction of aglobal liquidity standard approach.
EL is determined by multiplying the associated probability of proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2010 and default, loss given default and exposure at default together and assumes phased in through CRD IV from 1 January 2014 onward.
Basis point bps Exposure at Default EAD One hundredth of aper cent 0.01%.
Exposure at default represents the estimated exposure to a customer in Usedinquoting movements in interest rates.
In determining EAD amounts, consideration is made of the extent to which undrawn commitments may be drawn down at the Buy-to-let mortgages point of default and the application of credit risk mitigation i. e. eligible Buy-to-let mortgages are those mortgages offered to customers financial collateral.
purchasing residential property as arental investment.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS Capital Requirements Directive CRD IV The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UKs On 27 June 2013, the European Commission published, through the independent statutory compensation fund for customers of authorised official journal of the European Union, its legislation for aCRD and financial services firms and pays compensation if afirm is unable to pay Capital Requirements Regulation CRR, which form the CRD IV claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by management expenses levies package.
Amendments were subsequently made to the Regulation and, where necessary, compensation levies on authorised firms.
The package implements the Basel III proposals in addition to the inclusion of new proposals on sanctions Forbearance for non-compliance with prudential rules, corporate governance and Forbearance takes place when aconcession is made on the contractual remuneration.
The rules were implemented from 1 January 2014 terms of aloan in response to an obligors financial difficulties.
onwards, with certain sections yet to be phased in.
Franchise Collectively assessed loan impairment provision TSBs business excluding the Mortgage Enhancement.
A provision established following an impairment assessment on acollective basis for homogenous groups of loans, such as credit card Impaired loans receivables and personal loans, that are not considered individually Impaired loans are loans where the Group does not expect to collect significant and for loan losses that have been incurred but not separately all the contractual cash flows or to collect them when they are identified at the balance sheet date.
Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital Impairment allowances The highest quality form of regulatory capital under CRD IV that Impairment allowances are aprovision held on the balance sheet as comprises common shares issued and related share premium, retained aresult of the raising of acharge against profit for the incurred loss earnings and other reserves less specified regulatory adjustments.
inherent in the lending book.
An impairment allowance may either be individual or collective.
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Common Equity Tier 1 Capital as apercentage of risk weighted assets.
Impairment losses An impairment loss is the reduction in value that arises following an Contractual maturities impairment review of an asset that determines that the assets value is Contractual maturity refers to the final payment date of aloan or other lower than its carrying value.
For impaired financial assets measured financial instrument, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal at amortised cost, impairment losses are the difference between the will be repaid and interest is due to be paid.
carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 159 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Individually collectively assessed Pillar 1 Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually The first pillar of the Basel III framework sets out the quantitative significant, and collectively where aportfolio comprises homogenous elements the minimum regulatory capital requirements for credit, assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
Internal assessed loan impairment provisions Pillar 2 Impairment loss provisions for individually significant impaired loans The second pillar of the Basel III framework sets out the qualitative are assessed on acase-by-case basis, taking into account the financial expectations that should be met through the supervisory review process.
condition of the counterparty, any guarantor and the realisable value of This includes the ICAAP, governance process and the Supervisory any collateral held.
It sets out the review process for abanks capital adequacy: the process under which the supervisors evaluate how well Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP financial institutions are assessing their risks and the actions taken as The Groups own assessment, based on Basel II requirements, of aresult of these assessments.
the levels of capital that it needs to hold in respect of its regulatory capital requirements for credit, market and operational risks and for Pillar 3 other risks including stress events as they apply on asolo level and on The third pillar of the Basel III framework aims to encourage market aconsolidated level.
discipline by setting out disclosure requirements for banks on their capital, risk exposures and risk assessment processes.
These Internal Ratings Based approach IRB disclosures are aimed at improving the information made available A methodology of estimating the credit risk within aportfolio by to the market.
utilising internal risk parameters to calculate credit risk regulatory capital requirements.
Probability of default An estimate of the likelihood that acustomer will default on their Leverage ratio obligation within the next year.
Tier 1 capital divided by the exposure measure.
Basel III reforms introduced aleverage ratio framework designed to reinforce risk Repurchase agreements based capital requirements with asimple, transparent, non-risk based Short term funding agreements which allow aborrower to sell afinancial backstop measure.
asset as collateral for cash.
As part of the agreement the borrower agrees to repurchase the security at some later date, usually less than Loan to deposit ratio 30days, repaying the proceeds of the loan.
The ratio of loans and advances to customers net of allowance for impairment losses divided by customer deposits.
Risk-weighted assets A measure of abanks assets adjusted for their associated risks.
Loans past due Riskweightings are established in accordance with CRD IV.
Loans are past due when acounterparty has failed to make apayment when contractually due.
Securitisation Securitisation is aprocess by which agroup of assets, usually loans, Loan to value ratio LTV are aggregated into apool, which is used to back the issuance of The LTV ratio is amathematical calculation which expresses the new securities.
amount of amortgage balance outstanding as apercentage of the total appraised value of the property.
Ahigh LTV indicates that there is less Standardised approach value to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the The standardised approach to calculating credit risk capital loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding requirements requires the use of a standard set of risk weights balance of the loan.
Use may be made of external credit ratings supplied by the external credit assessment institutions to assign risk Loss Given Default LGD weights to exposures.
Standardised approaches, following prescribed Loss given default represents the estimated proportion of an EAD methodologies, also exist for calculating market risk and operational amount that will be lost in the event of default.
It is calculated after taking riskrequirements.
account of credit risk mitigation and includes the cost of recovery.
Subordinated liabilities Master netting agreement Liabilities which, in the event of insolvency or liquidation of the issuer, An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple derivative are subordinated to the claims of depositors and other creditors contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all of the issuer.
contracts through asingle payment, in asingle currency, in the event of default on, or termination of, any one contract.
Tier 1 capital A measure of abanks financial strength defined by CRD IV.
It captures Mortgage Enhancement Common Equity Tier 1 Capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, The business segment created to reflect the transfer of the economic subject to deductions.
benefit of a 3.4 billion portfolio of mortgages to the Group from LBG with effect from 28 February 2014.
Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital as apercentage of risk-weighted assets.
Net interest income NII The difference between interest received on assets and interest paid Tier 2 capital on liabilities.
A component of regulatory capital defined by CRD IV, mainly comprising qualifying subordinated loan capital and eligible collective Net interest margin impairment allowances.
Net interest margin is net interest income as apercentage of average interest-earning assets.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
