87 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Conduct risk For more information: Page 14 Risk overview The Group offers arange of retail and business banking Doing the right things products designed to support its customers needs.
The Group continues to invest in a number of initiatives to Building long term customer relationships that are both improve and simplify its customer processes and products.
straightforward and transparent, providing fair customer Forexample, the Group is enhancing its digital channels, outcomes and excellent customer service is vital in upgrading branches and has reduced the cost to customers delivering the Groupsstrategy.
The Group is also focusing on fewer and simpler products to best meet the needs of customers, such as its In doing so, the Group sets out to provide great banking to Classic Plus current account and Fixand Flex ten year more people, help more people borrow well and provide the mortgage product.
kind of service that current and prospective customers want and deserve.
The principles we apply to customers are also The right way for customers reflected in the conduct treatments the Group applies to other The Group is transforming its branch operating model stakeholders and Partners.
and developing its Partner reward and remuneration frameworks to focus on customer needs and sustainable As set out on page 86, to achieve this, the Group is: performance.
Asmentioned above, the Group is investing in its digital services and is focused on delivering a great Ensuring customers best interests are at the heart of customer experience and fair outcomes via this channel.
everything the Group does: The Group alsoaims to support vulnerable customers by creating a specialist support team and providing additional Enhancing how its customer propositions are training to Partners.
reviewed and assessed: Continually assessing that we are achieving our aim Refining how it reviews and responds to customer outcomes: The Group actively identifies and seeks to understand the rootcause of when it falls short and what it can do better.
Developing clear customer accountabilities for Partners with Ituses arange of tools to ensure that it receives timely aremuneration framework which rewards the correct skills, feedback from customers and Partners, both on new and attitudes and right behaviours: and existing products and processes.
It continually assesses the views and opinions from awide range of market commentators, Identifying and understanding the root cause of where the with the aim of improving the Groups ability to provide fair Group falls short and putting it right.
By holding to this approach, the Group believes it will deliver Whilst making good progress, the Group continues to receive the basics well, build sustainable value and differentiate itself reportable banking complaints in relation to legacy issues.
Excluding these issues about Packaged Bank Accounts, the volume of reportable banking complaints remained broadly The Groups approach to further augment its conduct risk stable through the year at 1.0 per 1,000 accounts.
Including strategy can be simply translated as: legacy issues, reportable banking complaints rose from 1.1 inthe first half to 1.2 in the second half of 2014.
As explained Having the right people: in the consolidated financial statements note 33, the Group isprotected from losses arising from historic misconduct Doing the right things: underan indemnity provided by Lloyds Bank plc.
In the right way for customers: and The positive change in the Bank net promoter score underlines the improvements the Group has made in providing excellent Continually assessing whether this aim is being achieved.
Having the right people The Groups partnership model is designed to recruit, retain and reward Partners who share and live TSBs values.
The Group is investing in asubstantial programme of Partner development and training to ensure that Partners behave in away that is aligned to TSBs values and delivers the right customer outcomes.
In 2015 every customer-facing Partner willparticipate in atailor made service training programme.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
