78 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 8.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating Historical TSR performance toDirectors remuneration The Companys Board entrusts the Committee with the responsibility for the remuneration policy in respect of Executive Directors, senior executives and Code Staff and ensuring its ongoing appropriateness and relevance.
The Committees fullterms of reference are available on the companys website.
20 June 2014 20 September 2014 31 December 2014 Theterms of reference, were approved by the Committee upon its formation and will be kept under regular review.
TSB FTSE 250 The section of this report addressing Corporate Governance provides details of the Committee members and their 7.2 Table of historic Chief Executive Officer data attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings.
2014 Paul Pester As amatter of course Committee meetings are also attended by the Company Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Single figure of total remuneration 1,891,920 the HR Director, the Chief Risk Officer, and the Director of Percentage of maximum TSB Award paid 66.6% Performance and Reward to provide input on their specialist Percentage of maximum SPA vesting 0% areas as requested by the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
None of these Percentage change in remuneration for the additional attendees participates in any part of any meeting that Chief Executive Officer discusses issues directly affecting their own remuneration.
Comparative figures for previous years are not included as this relates entirely to service under the governance of LBG In setting the remuneration for the Partners for which it has and therefore percentage changes are not provided.
direct responsibility, the Committee takes into account the pay and conditions of the wider workforce as amatter of course.
As detailed in the statement from the Committee Chair, TSBs overall reward strategy has been designed to create The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP Deloitte to aculture of partnership and as such the remuneration provide independent advice on remuneration matters of the Chief Executive Officer is always considered following apresentation to the Committee members.
in the context of remuneration for other Partners.
Deloitte is amember of the Remuneration Consultants 7.3 Relative importance of the spend on pay Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of The table below illustrates the current overall expenditure conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
The onpay relative to dividends paid.
However, it should be noted Committeeis satisfied that the advice it has received has been that TSB has yet to pay any dividends and the information objective and independent.
As advisor to the Committee, inthistable is therefore currently of limited use.
Deloitte has provided independent advice on matters under consideration by the Committee including in relation to The figures presented have been calculated on the compliancewith regulations, advice on market trends and following bases: data and implementation of remuneration arrangements.
Overall expenditure on pay represents total staff costs Deloittes fees in respect of the advice provided to the from continuing operations for the full year.
Committee during 2014 were 82,000 and were charged on thebasis of its standard terms of business.
Deloitte Dividends dividends paid in respect of the year.
also provided advice on remuneration to management Remuneration Dividend during 2014, as well as providing advice on taxation and paid to all paid share financial matters and other miscellaneous consulting and employees buybacks assurance services.
Inaddition, management received million million external advice, including market data and legal counsel, 2014 278.1 0 from anumber of other providers which is not considered to be material in assisting the Remuneration Committee 7.4 Funding of shares and dilution limits in consideration of the Directors remuneration.
TSB will comply with overall dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the Investment Association.
These limits As amatter of good practice the Committee will review are 10% in any rolling ten year period for all plans and 5% in the work of Deloitte during 2015 and formally consider the any rolling ten year period for executive share plans.
continuing appointment of Deloitte as adviser to the Committee.
7.5 External appointments Paul Pester is an Advisory Board Member of the Financial Services Forum for which he does not receive afee.
Darren Pope does not currently hold any external appointments.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
