77 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 6.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 6.3 Sustainable Performance Award This section provides an overview of how the Committee is The maximum SPA will remain at 100% of basic salary for the proposing to implement our Remuneration Policy in 2015.
Grant levels will continue to be based on Financial Resilience, Customer Outcomes, Strategic 6.1 Basic salary, pension and benefits Delivery and personal performance.
Vesting of the awards In the period following listing, the Committee undertook areview will be in five annual tranches and subject to corporate and of Executive Directors salaries against the external market.
As was committed in the Prospectus the Chief Executive As with the TSB Award, the Committee considers the exact Officers basic salary will remain at 700,000 and will not be SPA award targets to be commercially sensitive.
In accordance with the Groups we commit to providing more context regarding performance wider policy the Chief Executive Officers pension contribution against these targets and the resulting vesting amounts at the allowance will remain as afixed percentage of basic salary and end of the relevant vesting period.
the Flexible Benefits allowance has been adjusted to apply the standard percentage 4% to the basic salary as at September 6.4 Non-executive Director remuneration 2014.
This is in accordance with the policy applied to all Partners.
The table below shows the Nonexecutive Director fee structure for 2015.
The fee levels shown below were set at After reviewing the Chief Financial Officers basic salary listing and will be maintained for 2015.
We expect to review against external market data for comparable roles in companies Non-executive Director fee levels in the first quarter of 2016 of similar size to TSB and taking into account his excellent andannually thereafter.
performance over the year see page 74 for further details the 2015 fees Committee decided to increase the Chief Financial Officers Chairman of the Board fee 325,000 annual basic salary from 450,000 to 535,000 with effect Senior Independent Director fee 20,000 from 1 April 2015.
Board member basic fee 60,000 The Committee is conscious that this is asignificant Additional fee for Audit Remuneration adjustment, in part aresult of aconservative approach taken RiskCommittee Chair 25,000 to the first stage adjustment made at listing.
The Committee Additional fee for membership of each of believes that the adjustment is consistent with the commitment Audit Risk Remuneration Committee 10,000 to ensure that the overall remuneration package is properly Additional fee for membership of aligned to market levels of reward and that the adjustment NominationCommittee 5,000 is appropriate.
The Committee will continue to review the The Chairman waives his entitlement to this fee.
Executive Directors remuneration annually, taking into account individual performance and contribution to the Group.
Contextual disclosures The following section sets out graphs and tables to provide 6.2 TSB Award additional context to shareholders on executive pay and In 2015 the TSB Award was extended to include all Partners.
The maximum annual TSB Award for all Partners, including Executive Directors will be two times the core award.
Based 7.1 TSR performance and Chief Executive Officer on Group performance the core award can range from 0% to remuneration outcomes 15% inany year, resulting in amaximum individual award of 0% The performance graph overleaf illustrates the total shareholder to 30% in the year see policy table on page 60. return performance of TSB in the period since its listing compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE The corporate performance measures are the same for 250 index.
TSB is aconstituent of this index and as such it has all Partners in order to strengthen the Groups inclusive been selected as an appropriate comparator group.
Given the partnership culture and will continue to measure performance relatively short period which has elapsed since listing, this data against Customer Outcomes, Financial Resilience and is currently of limited assistance to shareholders, but will build Strategic Delivery.
over time to give aview of comparative performance against the FTSE 250 index.
The Committee considers that the exact TSB Award targets arecommercially sensitive.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
