Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 10 million.
Note 14 on pages 76 to 83 sets out the Groups 1 Accounting policies risk management policies and procedures, including those The financial statements of the Group have been prepared covering currency risk, interest rate risk and liTuidity risk.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting As{at 31 December 2014 the Groups total assets less Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and current{liabilities exceeded its total non current liabilities by therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article a multiple of over ten.
The assets of the Group consist mainly 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
These comprise standards and of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys interpretations approved by the International Accounting investment policy, as set out on the inside front cover.
Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations Most{of these securities are readily realisable even in volatile of the International Accounting Standards and Standing markets.
The directors, who have reviewed carefully the Interpretations Committee approved by the International Groups budget and forecast for the coming year, consider Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in that the Group has adeTuate financial resources to enable effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable European Union.
Accordingly, the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling Groups accounts.
because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
c Basis oI consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the a Basis oI preparation financial statements of the Company and the entity The financial statements have been prepared on the controlled by the Company its subsidiary made up to historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain 31{December each year.
Control is achieved where the financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies Company has the power to govern the financial and adopted are set out below.
:here presentational guidance operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial benefits from its activities.
:here necessary, adMustments Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital are made to the financial statements of the subsidiary to Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment bring the accounting policies used by it into line with those Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, reTuirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
d 3resentation oI the Statement oI Comprehensive Income Sources oI estimation uncertainty In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust In the application of the Groups accounting policies, company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, management is reTuired to make Mudgements, estimates and supplementary information which analyses the Statement assumptions about carrying values of assets and liabilities of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and that are not always readily apparent from other sources.
capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement The estimates and associated assumptions are based on of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys historical experience and other factors that are considered Articles of Association, net capital returns may not be to{be relevant.
Actual results may vary from these estimates.
distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing b Going concern the Groups compliance with certain reTuirements set out in The Groups business activities, together with the factors section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. likely to affect its future development and performance, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 23.
The financial e Income position of the Group as at 31 December 2014 is shown in the Dividends receivable on eTuity shares are recognised as balance sheet on page 64.
The cash flows of the Group for revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
:here no exthe year ended 31 December 2014, which are not untypical, dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before are set out on page 65.
The Company had fixed debt and the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision preference share capital totalling 110,428,000, as set out is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The in note 13 on page 76: none of the borrowings is repayable fixed returns on debt securities and non-eTuity shares are before 2016.
In 2014, the Group renewed a one-year secured recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect multi-currency borrowing facility for 70 million, of which the effective yield on the debt securities and shares.
Interest 45 million was drawn down at 31 December 2014 2013 receivable from cash and short-term deposits is accrued to 66 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014
