Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Strategy and business model Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in Companies are required to publish a Strategic the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all Report, which should provide a description of the markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has objectives which its strategy is designed to deliver the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to for shareholders, the business model and the using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
outlook for the year ahead.
It should also include analysis of the Companys performance during the Our approach is to balance dierent factors such as quality, year, relative to the key elements of its business value or growth approaches and geographical exposure, strategy.
This report falls into four main sections: aiming to profit from asset allocation and from managers combined ability to outperform over time.
Strategy who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity investment by focusing on fundamental share values rather 2. Business model than chasing short-term momentum.
Performance and principal developments in 2014 2. Business model 4.
Corporate and operational structure The Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited WIS as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded AIFM under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers in 1909 and has been listed on the London Directive AIFMD.
As AIFM, WIS has responsibility for Stock Exchange since 1924.
It is managed by the operating the Companys portfolio and risk management processes.
WIS does, however, delegate certain portfolio Executive team of its Alternative Investment Fund management responsibilities to external portfolio managers.
Manager, Witan Investment Services Limited In addition to WIS delegating investment management WIS, under the control and supervision of the to external portfolio managers, the Company uses an Companys Board of Directors.
outsourced model for other corporate functions, such as fund{accounting, custody and specialist professional services.
These activities are overseen by the WIS and Witan{Executive team, covering Investment, Operations 1.
Strategy and{Marketing, headed by the Chief Executive Ocer, who is{a Director of the Company.
The Companys strategy is to create value for shareholders, by addressing the investment objective, by adding value in Whilst the external managers appointed are responsible for pursuing that objective and by communicating eectively with existing and potential shareholders.
stock selection in their individual portfolios, WIS and the Companys Board are responsible for the overall delivery of The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily performance to shareholders, through the following means: in a{broad geographical spread of global equity markets.
Setting the overall investment objective: The{objective is to profit from opportunities created by global Selecting competent managers, who are expected economic growth and to outperform a representative equity to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the benchmark, thereby generating long-term capital growth for investment remit set by the Company: shareholders, together with an income that rises faster than the rate of ination.
Operating appropriate portfolio and risk management arrangements to meet the requirements of the AIFMD The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, and to maintain an eective overall system of risk allocating funds for investment by selected managers with management and corporate governance: diering styles and specialisations.
The aim is to access the Adjusting asset allocation according to opportunities best available managers, including those not accessible on that{arise: the same terms or at all to UK investors.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 07 Strategic Report Strategy and business model continued A proportion, up to 10%, of the portfolio at the time of The judicious use of borrowings with the aim of adding investment {may be invested in collective funds selected to{performance: by WIS, with the objective of outperforming Witans equity Direct investment in funds exposed to specialist asset benchmark.
This portfolio is managed subject to limits categories: set by the Board, and in accordance with portfolio and Controlled and selective use of exchange-traded risk management processes established by Witan and the Companys AIFM.
These investments may represent asset derivatives to adjust asset allocation: and categories that are temporarily undervalued or funds which Clear communication of Witans objective and its are viewed as attractive longer-term generators of superior results{to shareholders and potential investors.
The Boards and the Executives role The WIS Executive, overseen by and working within clear parameters set by the Board, also seeks to add to in investment management performance by adjusting the level of gearing employed, As noted above, the Company has appointed its whollyby the selective use of exchange-traded derivatives to alter owned subsidiary WIS as its AIFM under the AIFMD.
As the asset allocation and by the use of specialist funds to such, WIS{has responsibility for ensuring that portfolio and gain exposure to areas underrepresented in the rest of the risk management of the Company are properly carried out, portfolio.
In essence, the Company seeks to have sucient with appropriate safeguards to ensure the functional and levers to pull to take advantage of investment opportunities hierarchical independence of those{with portfolio and risk that may arise, in addition to the total returns arising from management responsibilities.
The Board remains responsible the investment managers portfolios, which are expected to for setting the investment strategy, policy and guidelines of be the most significant driver of the Companys performance.
the Company and the AIFM operates within these.
Our selected benchmark The selection of individual investments is largely delegated to external managers, subject to investment limits and The Companys benchmark is a combination of global equity guidelines which reect the particular mandate e. g. UK or markets, which reect the investment universe from which global equities and the specic investment approach which most of the portfolio holdings are chosen.
Since October the Company and its AIFM have selected e. g. value, higher 2007 the benchmark based on{the FTSE All-World indices dividend yield, special situations.
The managers are chosen has been: by the Witan and WIS Boards after a disciplined selection process focused on the managers scope to add value and 40% UK their t with the overall balance of the portfolio.
20% North America 20% Europe ex-UK The overwhelming majority of the portfolio is managed in 20% Asia Pacic.
segregated accounts, held by the Companys depositary, via the custodian to whom it delegates safekeeping This reects an investment policy that balances investment responsibilities which enables the Company to view the in the UK market both for its domestic and international portfolio as a whole and analyse its risks and opportunities exposure with access to growth in other regions of the world.
as well as those at the level of each managers portfolio.
The{operations of the custodian and the safeguarding of the It should be emphasised that the portfolio is actively Companys assets are further supervised by the depositary, managed and not designed to track any index or combination appointed by Witan and its AIFM, in accordance with the of market indices.
Performance can be expected to vary, requirements set out in{the AIFMD.
sometimes considerably, from that of the benchmark, while aiming for outperformance in the longer term.
At the end of 2014, the Company and its AIFM had 11 external investment managers, covering a range of investment Performance information for other commonly used indices remits.
{Information regarding the proportion of Witans is also given in the key performance indicators summary assets managed by each and of their performance during section on page 2. the{year is set out on page 11.
08 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014
