Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of and the financial statements in accordance with applicable the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the integrity of the corporate and financial information included directors are required to prepare the Group financial on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom statements in accordance with International Financial governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Union EU and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial Responsibility statement statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: company law the directors must not approve the financial t he financial statements, prepared in accordance statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and with International Financial Reporting Standards as fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss these financial statements, International Accounting of the Company and the undertakings included in the Standard 1 requires that directors: consolidation taken as a whole: properly select and apply accounting policies: t he Strategic Report includes a fair review of the pre sent information, including accounting policies, in development and performance of the business and the a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable position of the Company and the undertakings included and understandable information: in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description on pages 18 to 20 of the principal risks pro vide additional disclosures when compliance with and uncertainties that they face: and the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular t he financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, transactions, other events and conditions on the balanced and understandable, and provide the entitys financial position and financial performance: information necessary for shareholders to assess the and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
m ake an assessment of the Companys ability to By order of the Board continue as a going concern.
H M Henderson A L C Bell The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Chairman Chief Executive Ocer accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 10 March 2015 10 March 2015 the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Note to those who access this document by electronic means The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 has been approved by the Board of Witan Investment Trust plc.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those who hold shares through Witan Investment Services Limiteds savings schemes and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published online.
It is also made available in electronic format for the convenience of readers.
Printed copies are available from the Companys Registered Office in London.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 55
