Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 10 million.
Note 14 on pages 76 to 83 sets out the Groups 1 Accounting policies risk management policies and procedures, including those The financial statements of the Group have been prepared covering currency risk, interest rate risk and liTuidity risk.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting As{at 31 December 2014 the Groups total assets less Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and current{liabilities exceeded its total non current liabilities by therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article a multiple of over ten.
The assets of the Group consist mainly 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
These comprise standards and of securities that are held in accordance with the Companys interpretations approved by the International Accounting investment policy, as set out on the inside front cover.
Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations Most{of these securities are readily realisable even in volatile of the International Accounting Standards and Standing markets.
The directors, who have reviewed carefully the Interpretations Committee approved by the International Groups budget and forecast for the coming year, consider Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in that the Group has adeTuate financial resources to enable effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable European Union.
Accordingly, the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling Groups accounts.
because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
c Basis oI consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the a Basis oI preparation financial statements of the Company and the entity The financial statements have been prepared on the controlled by the Company its subsidiary made up to historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain 31{December each year.
Control is achieved where the financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies Company has the power to govern the financial and adopted are set out below.
:here presentational guidance operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial benefits from its activities.
:here necessary, adMustments Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital are made to the financial statements of the subsidiary to Trusts the SORP issued by the Association of Investment bring the accounting policies used by it into line with those Companies the AIC in January 2009 is consistent with the used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, reTuirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
d 3resentation oI the Statement oI Comprehensive Income Sources oI estimation uncertainty In order to better reflect the activities of an investment trust In the application of the Groups accounting policies, company, and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, management is reTuired to make Mudgements, estimates and supplementary information which analyses the Statement assumptions about carrying values of assets and liabilities of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and that are not always readily apparent from other sources.
capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement The estimates and associated assumptions are based on of Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the Companys historical experience and other factors that are considered Articles of Association, net capital returns may not be to{be relevant.
Actual results may vary from these estimates.
distributed by way of dividend.
Additionally, the net revenue is the measure the directors believe appropriate in assessing b Going concern the Groups compliance with certain reTuirements set out in The Groups business activities, together with the factors section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. likely to affect its future development and performance, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 23.
The financial e Income position of the Group as at 31 December 2014 is shown in the Dividends receivable on eTuity shares are recognised as balance sheet on page 64.
The cash flows of the Group for revenue for the year on an ex-dividend basis.
:here no exthe year ended 31 December 2014, which are not untypical, dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before are set out on page 65.
The Company had fixed debt and the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision preference share capital totalling 110,428,000, as set out is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The in note 13 on page 76: none of the borrowings is repayable fixed returns on debt securities and non-eTuity shares are before 2016.
In 2014, the Group renewed a one-year secured recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect multi-currency borrowing facility for 70 million, of which the effective yield on the debt securities and shares.
Interest 45 million was drawn down at 31 December 2014 2013 receivable from cash and short-term deposits is accrued to 66 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information the end of the period.
Stock lending fees and underwriting profits will be available against which deductible temporary commission are recognised as earned.
Any special dividends differences can be utilised.
Investment trusts which have are looked at individually to ascertain the reason behind the approval as such under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax payment.
This will determine whether they are treated as Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
:here the Group has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at cash, the amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it income.
Any excess in the value of shares received over the is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be amount of cash dividend foregone is recognised as a gain in available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected I Expenses to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the All expenses and interest payable are accounted for on an asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the accruals basis.
Expenses are presented as capital where a Statement of Comprehensive Income, except when it relates connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the to items charged or credited directly to eTuity, in which case value of the investments can be demonstrated.
In this respect the deferred tax is also dealt with in eTuity.
the investment management fees and finance costs are allocated 25% to revenue and 75% to capital to reflect the h Investments held at Iair value through proIit or loss Boards expectations of long-term investment returns.
Any :hen a purchase or sale is made under a contract, the terms performance fees payable are allocated wholly to capital, of which reTuire delivery within the timeframe of the relevant reflecting the fact that, although they are calculated on market, the investments concerned are recognised or a total return basis, they are expected to be attributable derecognised on the trade date.
largely, if not wholly, to capital performance.
All the Groups investments are defined by IFRSs as g Taxation adopted by the European Union as investments held at The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently fair{value through profit or loss.
All gains and losses are payable and deferred tax.
allocated to the capital return within the Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for held at fair value through profit or loss.
Also included within the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported this heading are transaction costs in relation to the purchase in the Statement of Comprehensive Income because it or sale of investments.
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that All investments are designated upon initial recognition as are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for held at fair value through profit or loss, and are measured at current tax is calculated using tax rates that were applicable subseTuent reporting dates at fair value, which is either at the balance sheet date.
the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is In line with the recommendations of the SORP, the allocation Tuoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the method used to calculate tax relief on expenses presented closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, against capital returns in the supplementary information in released by the relevant investment manager.
the Statement of Comprehensive Income is the marginal basis.
Under this basis, if taxable income is capable of being The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the offset entirely by expenses presented in the revenue return contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income then no when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the tax relief is transferred to the capital return column.
risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable the assets carrying amount and the sum of the consideration on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding had been accumulated in eTuity is recognised in profit or loss.
tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Fair values for unTuoted investments, or for investments for Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable which there is only an inactive market, are established by temporary differences and deferred tax assets are using various valuation techniTues.
These may include recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable recent arms length market transactions, the current Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 67 Notes to the Financial Statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 m Adoption oI neZ and revised accounting standards 1 Accounting policies continued i Changes in accounting policy and disclosures fair value of another instrument that is substantially The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those the same, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing of the previous financial year.
models and reference to similar Tuoted companies.
:here there is a valuation techniTue commonly used by market ii Standards and interpretations aIIecting the reported participants to price the instrument and that techniTue has results or Iinancial position been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement obtained in actual market transactions, that techniTue is The Group has applied IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
:here no reliable fair value can be estimated for standard replaces the guidance on fair value measurement such instruments, they are carried at cost, subMect to any in existing IFRS accounting literature with a single standard.
This standard defines fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and reTuires disclosure about fair value The subsidiary company, :itan Investment Services imited, measurements.
is held at fair value in the Company balance sheet.
This is considered to be the net asset value of the shareholders iii Standards not aIIecting the reported results nor the funds, as shown in its balance sheet.
Iinancial position The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations i Cash and cash equivalents have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these eTuivalents are short-term, highly liTuid investments that are financial statements.
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subMect to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
IAS 32 amended Osetting Financial Assets and Financial iabilities j Dividends payable IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and Investment Entities Interim dividends are recognised in the period in which they IAS 27 amended are paid.
Final dividends are not recognised until approved by IAS 36 amended Recoverable Amount Disclosures the shareholders in general meeting.
for{Non-Financial Assets k Non current liabilities IAS 39 amended Novation of Derivatives and All debentures and secured bonds are initially recognised Continuation of Hedge Accounting at cost, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition, At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, all interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subseTuently the following Standards and Interpretations which had not measured at amortised cost using the effective interest been applied in these financial statements were in issue method, with the interest expense recognised on an effective but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of adopted by the European Union calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The IFRS 1 amended First-time Adoption of International effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts Financial Reporting Standards estimated future payments over the expected life of the IFRS 3 amended Business Combinations financial liabilities, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
IFRS 13 amended Fair Value Measurements l Foreign currency translation IAS 40 amended Investment Property Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted IFRS 5 amended Non-current Assets Held for Sale at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
and Discontinued Operations IFRS 7 amended Financial Instruments Disclosures Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities that are IAS 19 amended Employee Benets fair valued and denominated in foreign currencies are IAS 34 amended Interim Financial Reporting re-translated into sterling at the rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and allocated to the capital return.
68 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014
