Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information :itan :isdom and Jump HoZ to invest There is a variety of ways to invest in :itan Investment Trust Jump Child Trust Fund ike the Junior ISA, the Child Trust plc.
Naturally, :itans shares can be traded through any UK Fund CTF is a tax efficient savings vehicle with an annual stockbroker.
Advisers who wish to purchase :itan for their limit of 4,000 each year measured by the childs birthday, clients can also do so via a growing number of platforms which will increase to 4,080 from 6 April 2015.
Each child that offer investment trusts including Ascentric, Alliance born in the UK from 1 September 2002 up to and including Trust Savings, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax Sharedealing, 2 January 2012 was eligible for a CTF.
You can transfer Hargreaves ansdown, Nucleus, Raymond James, Seven IM existing CTFs to Jump subMect to a minimum transfer value and Transact.
:itan is also available for investment through of 1,000.
In addition, from April 2015 the UK Government the two savings schemes managed by :itan Investment plans to allow CTF investors to transfer to Junior ISAs.
Once Services imited :itan :isdom and Jump Savings.
permissions are confirmed, you will be able to transfer existing CTFs to the Jump Junior ISA subMect to minimum Witan Wisdom transfer values.
Please contact :itan for further details.
Shareholders who hold their investment via :itan :isdom are charged a single flat annual fee of 30 VAT for both the Jump Savings Plan the Jump Savings Plan offers greater :itan :isdom Share Plan and ISA.
There is no charge other flexibility than the Junior ISA or Child Trust Fund in terms than government stamp duty, for regular savings or dividend of the limits, access and control of the investment.
ump sum dealing will be charged at a flat rate also be opened by grandparents, relatives and other family of 15. friends.
You can open a Jump Savings Plan with a lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month or Tuarter.
:itan :isdom offers two different savings wrappers NB :ith a flat rate annual fee of 30 VAT for Jump, the The Witan Wisdom ISA is a stocks and shares ISA that cost is high for the minimum subscription level.
Investors enables investors to buy :itan shares within a tax efficient should consider if this is suitable for them if they do not plan wrapper.
Investors have an annual ISA allowance of up to to add to the account.
The minimum lump sum investment Brochures and applications for all of our products are available with :itan :isdom ISA is 2,000, with the regular savings by calling 0800 082 81 80 or online via www.
Investors can also transfer If you would prefer to write to reTuest further information, existing ISAs to :itan :isdom while retaining their tax the address details can be found on page 90.
To keep up to efficient wrapper during and after transfer.
date on news and commentary from :itan Investment Trust plc please visit www.
com stayintouch to provide us The Witan Wisdom Share Plan is our straightforward, lowwith your email address.
The minimum lump sum investment is 500, and the minimum regular contribution is 50 per :itan Investment Trust plc is an eTuity investment.
Accounts can also are reminded that past performance is not a guide to be held Mointly, or designated to a child.
future performance and the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investorsump Savings for children may not get back the amount originally invested.
Please Jump gives parents, grandparents and other adults the note that tax assumptions may change if the law changes, chance to invest in :itan on behalf of a child.
This flexible and the value of tax relief if any will depend upon your savings plan has a minimum lump sum investment set at individual circumstances.
Investors should consult their 250 and regular contributions can be made from 50 per own tax advisers in order to understand any applicable tax month or Tuarter.
Jump is available in three different wrappers conseTuences.
Issued and approved by :itan Investment Services imited.
:itan Investment Services imited of Junior ISA Is a tax efficient wrapper available to children 14 Queen Annes Gate, ondon S:1H 9AA is registered in born before 1 September 2002 or after 3 January 2012, or England and :ales number 5272533. :itan Investment those who did not Tualify for a Child Trust Fund.
The account Services imited provides investment products and services can only be opened by the parent though others can add and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct to it.
It currently has an annual subscription limit of 4,000 Authority.
:e may record telephone calls for our mutual for the 2014 15 tax year, which will increase to 4,080 for protection and to improve customer service.
You can open a Jump Junior ISA with a minimum lump sum investment of 250 or 50 per month SubMect to adMustment in line with the UK CPI inflation at 3-yearly intervals.
The{flat rate annual fee for Jump will increase to 31.60 per annum, in line with or Tuarter.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 89
