Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Companys policy towards its employees is to attract 4.
Corporate and operational structure and{retain sta with the particular skills and expertise required to manage the aairs of an investment trust As described earlier page 7 Witan is an Investment Trust company.
Details of the Companys remuneration policies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
It and required disclosures are set out in the Directors has a single, wholly-owned, subsidiary, Witan Investment Remuneration Report on page 44.
Employees and those Services Limited WIS which acts as the Companys who{seek to work within the Group are treated equally Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
regardless of sex, marital status, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Company has seven direct employees, four men Operational management arrangements and three women.
The Board currently consists of seven In addition to the appointment of delegated investment non-executive directors five men and two women and the managers, Witan and WIS contract with third parties for Chief Executive Ocer, Andrew Bell, who is an employee.
the{supporting services required, including: Given its outsourced model and small number of direct BNP Paribas Securities Services London Branch BNPSS employees, the Group has no specic policies in respect of for global depositary services, custody, investment environmental or social and community aairs.
accounting and{administration: Witan Investment Services WIS Frostrow Capital LLP for company secretarial services: Witan Investment Services Limited is a wholly-owned International Financial Data Services IFDS Ltd. as subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc Witan.
It is the{savings plan administrators of Witan Wisdom and authorised and{regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Jump Savings: FCA.
Specialist advisers used for media relations, advertising and investment manager research: and It was established in March 2005 to provide investment savings accounts and marketing services and to give The Company also takes specialist advice on regulatory investment advice to professional investors.
From July 2014, compliance issues and, as required, procures legal, as already noted, WIS became the Alternative Investment investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
Fund Manager AIFM for Witan to full the{requirements of As with investment management, the contracts governing the AIFMD.
the provision of these services are formulated with legal advice and stipulate clear objectives and guidelines for the Prior to assuming the role of Witans AIFM, WISs principal level of service required.
activities have historically been to provide executive management services to the Boards of Witan and Witan Premises and stang Pacic Investment Trust plc Witan Pacic, to communicate Since November 2005 the Company has had a lease on information about the companies to the market to increase oce{premises at 14 4ueen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA, investor interest in their shares and to operate cost-eective which is also the Companys registered oce.
savings plans for investors to hold the shares.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 17 Strategic Report Corporate and operational structure continued WISs operational objectives for 2015 are: Where appropriate, the Witan and WIS boards meet jointly to cover matters of common interest.
The WIS board consists to full its investment and risk management of five non-executives and one executive director who are responsibilities as Witans AIFM: also directors of Witan, and one executive director who is a Company employee.
to provide a reliable and ecient investment savings platform for Witan and Witan Pacic investors: The Groups key risks fall broadly under the following to provide suitable advice to the Boards of its corporate categories: clients: Market and investment portfolio risks to reduce the net operating costs for Witan: and Witan is set up to invest in UK and overseas equity markets to seek appropriate business opportunities which can on behalf of its shareholders.
Equity exposure is unlikely to add value for shareholders.
drop below 80%, in normal conditions.
Therefore a key risk of investing in Witan is a general fall in equity prices, which WIS has two principal sources of income.
These are savings could be exacerbated by gearing.
Other risks, as with any plan revenues and the fees as AIFM or Executive Manager international equity portfolio, are the investment portfolios and for marketing services paid by its corporate clients, exposure to country, currency, industrial sector and stock Witan and Witan Pacic.
The main costs incurred by WIS are specic factors.
There are also risks associated with changes fees to the savings schemes administrator IFDS, sta costs in Witans share price discount or premium to NAV and the to provide the services described above and professional performance of its investment managers.
advice to ensure that its regulatory and accounting The Board seeks to manage these risks through: obligations are properly satisfied.
appropriate asset allocation decisions, with a broadly The savings plans provided for WIS clients are marketed diversied equity benchmark: under the Witan Wisdom and Jump Savings brands.
They manager diversication and regular reviews of the currently have over 23,500 accounts with assets of some managers competence: 327 million invested.
monitoring the global economic, geo-political and stock market outlook: Principal risks and uncertainties active management of risk, whether to preserve capital Risks are inherent in investment and corporate management or{capitalise on opportunities: but it is important that their nature and magnitude is understood, in order that risks, particularly those which the the application of relevant policies on gearing and Company does not wish to take, can be identied and either liquidity: and avoided or controlled.
In accordance with the provisions the use of share buybacks and issuance to respond to of the AIFMD, WIS has established a Risk{Committee in market supply and demand.
order to comply with its risk management and reporting obligations as Witans AIFM.
The Company has established a detailed framework of the key risks impinging on the During the year Andrew Bell Witans Chief Executive Ocer business principally investment, operational, financial and CEO and WISs principal portfolio manager managed the regulatory, with associated policies and processes devised overall business and the investment portfolio in accordance to mitigate or manage those risks.
This risk map is reviewed with limits and restrictions determined by the Board and its regularly by the Audit Committee along with the WIS Risk AIFM.
The Board regularly reviews the matters delegated to Committee, which report on issues arising to their respective Executive management, on which the CEO reports at each boards, for action as necessary.
The guiding principles remain Board meeting.
The Board also regularly reviews investment watchfulness, proper analysis, prudence and a clear system strategy and performance, supported by comprehensive of risk management.
management information including investment performance data and financial reports.
18 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Liquidity Operational and regulatory risks are regularly and extensively The Companys portfolio consists mainly of securities that reviewed by Witans Audit Committee.
WIS is subject to its are{readily realisable.
The Company and its AIFM regularly own operating rules and regulations and is regulated by review possible liquidity needs for example to cover the FCA.
From 2014, WIS has become the AIFM for Witan, operational costs, loan servicing and repayment, shareholder which has entailed it becoming more closely involved in dividends and share buybacks relative to the Companys a wide range of Witans operations.
The Company has portfolio income and the signicance of possible liquidity established a modus operandi for the eective coordination calls relative to the value and tradability of the Companys of these responsibilities, which has been adapted to ensure assets.
Given that most of the likely liquidity requirements full compliance with the AIFMDs requirements without are readily foreseeable for example, loan payments and duplication of eort and will continue to be adapted in the dividends are timetabled, while others such as share light of experience.
buybacks are subject to the Companys discretion, the Board is satisfied that unexpected liquidity needs are not significant Operationally the multi-manager structure is robust, as relative to the size of the Companys portfolio and that they the investment managers, the custodian and the fund could be readily met without compromising normal portfolio accountants keep their own records which are regularly management practice.
The depositary, AIFM and the Board provide additional checks and risk management safeguards.
Operational Management monitors the activities of all third parties Many of the Groups financial systems are outsourced to and{reports any significant issues to the Board.
third{parties, principally BNP Paribas Securities Services BNPSS.
Disruption to the accounting, payment systems Accounting, legal and regulatory or custody records operated by BNPSS could prevent the In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys must comply with sections 1158-59 of the Corporation Tax financial position.
BNPSS as the Companys depositary has Act 2010 CTA.
A breach of these sections could result a key responsibility for monitoring such issues on behalf of in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a the Company and its AIFM, WIS.
Details of how the Board consequence, capital gains realised within the Companys monitors the services provided by its suppliers, and the key portfolio would be subject to Corporation Tax.
The criteria are elements designed to provide eective internal control, are monitored by the CEO and AIFM and reviewed at each Board explained further in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Company also carefully and regularly monitors compliance with the accounting rules aecting investment Corporate governance trusts.
The Board takes its own regulatory responsibilities very seriously and regularly reviews the main points of compliance The Company is required to comply with the provisions of the against requirements.
Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, and the Company must also comply with the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Details of the Companys compliance with corporate Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA Rules.
A breach of the governance best practice are set out in the Corporate Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Governance Statement on pages 32 to 41.
The Board directors being ned or becoming the subject of criminal conducts an annual internal assessment of the eectiveness proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the of its governance processes in managing the Company and suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn enabling it to evolve in response to future challenges.
There is lead{to a breach of the provisions of the CTA.
also a 3-yearly independent external review, the most recent of which was conducted in late 2013.
See page 36 for{further details.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 19 Strategic report Corporate and operational structure continued These legal and regulatory requirements oer significant protection for shareholders.
The Board relies on the CEO, the AIFM, the Company Secretary and the Groups professional advisers to ensure compliance with all applicable rules.
WIS{is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as the AIFM for Witan, for the marketing and administration of savings plans and the provision of investment advice to professional clients.
Going concern The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the Board has considered the guidance on this matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 10{March 2015 and is signed on its behalf by: Harry Henderson Andrew Bell Chairman Chief Executive 10 March 2015 20 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014
