231544 Finsbury WWH pp67-pp80 11 06 2014 12:12 Page 68 Further Information Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive is a European Union Directive that entered into force on 22 July 2013.
The Directive regulates EU fund managers that manage alternative investment funds this includes investment trusts.
There is a one-year transition period within which alternative funds must comply with the provisions of the Directive.
Association of Southeast Asian Nations ASEAN A political and economic organisation of ten countries located in Southeast Asia which was formed in 1967.
Membership comprises: Indonesia, Malaysia, the Phillippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam.
Bullet swap A Swap with a single payment at maturity.
Diluted Net Asset Value This is a method of calculating the net asset value NAV of a company that has issued, and has outstanding, convertible loan stocks, warrants, subscription shares or options.
The calculation assumes that the holders have exercised their right to convert or subscribe, thus increasing the number of shares among which the assets are divided.
Discount or Premium A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share.
The size of the discount or premium is calculated by subtracting the share price from the net asset value per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the net asset value per share.
If the share price is higher than the net asset value per share the result is a premium.
If the share price is lower than the net asset value per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
Gearing Calculated using the Association of Investment Companies definition.
Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior charges such as borrowings minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders funds, expressed as a percentage.
For years prior to 2013, the calculation was based on prior charges as a percentage of average net assets.
LIBOR-OIS Spread This is the difference between LIBOR and the Overnight Indexed Swap OIS rates.
The spread between the two rates is considered to be a measurement of health of the banking system.
London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR The interest rate at which banks can borrow unsecured funds from other banks in London wholesale money markets, as measured by daily surveys of the British Bankers Association.
The published rate is a trimmed average of the rates obtained in the survey.
MSCI World Health Care Index The MSCI World Health Care Index is comprised of large and mid capitalisation companies across the following 23 developed markets countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, the UK and the U. S. The total return of the Index is used which assumes the reinvestment of any dividends paid by its constituents.
The performance of the Index is calculated in U. S. $ terms.
Because the Companys reporting currency is the prevailing U. S. $ exchange rate is applied to obtain a based return.
68 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp67-pp80 11 06 2014 12:12 Page 69 Further Information Glossary NAV per share pence The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
The NAV is also described as shareholders funds per share.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply of the shares.
NAV Total Return The theoretical total return on shareholders funds per share, including the assumed 100 original investment at the beginning of the period specified, reflecting the change in NAV assuming that dividends paid to shareholders were reinvested at NAV at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
A way of measuring investment management performance of investment trusts which is not affected by movements in discounts premiums.
Ongoing Charges Ongoing charges are calculated by taking the Companys annualised ongoing charges, excluding performance fees and exceptional items, and expressing them as a percentage of the average month end net asset value of the Company over the year.
Overnight Indexed Swap OIS An interest rate swap that serves as a measure of investor expectations of an average effective overnight rate over the term of the swap.
Rehypothecation The pledging of securities in customer margin accounts as collateral for a loan.
Share Price Total Return Return to the investor on mid-market prices assuming that all dividends paid were reinvested.
Total Assets Total assets less current liabilities before deducting prior charges.
Prior charges include all loans for investment purposes.
Total Net Assets The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
Treasury Shares Shares previously issued by a company that have been bought back from shareholders to be held by the company for potential sale or cancellation at a later date.
Such shares are not capable of being voted and carry no rights to dividends.
69 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
