231544 Finsbury WWH pp25-pp48 11 06 2014 12:15 Page 29 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors to Going Concern prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The In consideration of the appropriateness of adopting the going Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements, Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Directors took into account the following significant issues: In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have: The views of the Companys significant shareholders with selected suitable accounting policies and applied them regard to the ordinary resolution to be proposed at the consistently: forthcoming Annual General Meeting that the Company continues as an investment trust for a further five years: and made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The net assets of the Company comprises of liquid securities.
followed applicable UK accounting standards: and prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate information of which the Auditor is unaware.
The Directors accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make any time the financial position of the Company and enable themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the establish that the Auditor is aware of such information.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Responsibility Statement of the Directors in reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and respect of the annual financial report other irregularities.
The Directors, whose details can be found on pages 23 and 24, The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report of confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the Directors and other information included in the Annual the Financial Statements, within this Annual Report, have Report is prepared in accordance with company law in the been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing financial position and the return for the year ended Rules of the FCA.
31 March 2014: The financial statements are published on the Companys the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the Report website www.
com and via Frostrows website of the Directors include a fair review of the information www.
The maintenance and integrity of these required by 4.1.
11R of the FCAs Disclosure and websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the Transparency Rules: and responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditor are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to information necessary to assess the Companys the financial statements since they were initially presented on performance, business model and strategy.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from On behalf of the Board legislation in their jurisdiction.
Sir Martin Smith Chairman 6 June 2014 29 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
