231544 Finsbury WWH pp67-pp80 11 06 2014 12:12 Page 77 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions capital on 6 June 2014, as if Section 551 of the Act does not Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital which The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to 2014 will be presented to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
This authority will also expire on the date of These accounts accompany this Notice of Meeting and the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to ask whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection questions.
with a rights issue by the Company.
Resolutions 2 to 7 Re-election of Directors Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Resolutions 2 to 7 deal with the re-election of each Director.
Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share Biographies of each of the Directors can be found on pages 23 Regulations the Company is permitted to buy-back and hold to 24 of the annual report.
shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, that than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Regulations require such the Directors standing for re-election continue to perform sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing effectively.
shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to Resolution 8 Appointment of Auditor and the giving the Directors power to allot unissued share capital on a non determination of their remuneration pre-emptive basis pursuant to Resolution 12, Resolution 13, if Resolution 8 relates to the appointment of  passed, will give the Directors authority to sell shares held in LLP as the Companys independent Auditor to hold office until the treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid next AGM of the Company and also authorises the Directors to set on any shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to their remuneration.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company Resolutions 9 to 10 Remuneration Policy and greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and improve Remuneration Report liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board that any re-sale It is now mandatory for all listed companies to put both their of treasury shares would only take place at a narrower discount to Report on Directors Remuneration and their Remuneration the net asset value per share than that at which they had been Policy to a shareholder vote.
The Report on Directors bought into treasury, and in any event at a discount no greater Remuneration and the Remuneration Policy are set out in full in than 5% to the prevailing fully diluted cum income net asset value the annual report on pages 40 to 42. per share, and this is reflected in the text of Resolution 13.
It is also the intention of the Board that sales from treasury would only take Resolutions 11, 12 and 13 place when the Board believes that to do so would assist in the Ordinary Resolution No.
11 in the Notice of AGM will renew the provision of liquidity to the market.
The number of treasury shares authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an aggregate which may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of nominal amount of 1,166,547 equivalent to 4,666,188 shares, or the Companys existing share capital on 6 June 2014 reduced by 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital on 6 June any equity securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata basis 2014, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of pursuant to Resolution 12, as described above.
This authority will this Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next also expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or AGM or after a period of 15 months from the date of the passing after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be renewed at the next AGM.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the Nos.
11, 12 and 13 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shares to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds would be must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their available for investment in line with the Companys investment existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by special policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
Special Resolution shareholders in general meeting.
12 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to 10% of the Companys existing share 77 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp67-pp80 11 06 2014 12:12 Page 78 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in Resolutions 14 and 15 effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next AGM The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
The principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by acquiring shares at a Resolution 16 discount to net asset value, as and when the Directors consider Special Resolution No.
16 seeks shareholder approval to make this to be appropriate.
The purchase of Ordinary Shares, when certain changes to the Companys Articles of Association inter they are trading at a discount to net asset value per share, and alia to reflect changes prompted by the introduction of the also Subscription Shares, should result in an increase in the net Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Full asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
This explanatory notes of the principal changes to the Articles of authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would Association are set out on page 79 of this annual report.
result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of Resolution 17 shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares will be made Special Resolution No.
17 seeks shareholder approval for the within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
It Company to hold General Meetings other than the AGM at is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew this facility 14 clear days notice.
for another year at the AGM.
Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be Resolution 18 paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the higher Ordinary Resolution No.
18 seeks shareholder approval for the of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Company to continue as an investment trust for a further period shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of five years.
of purchase and ii the higher of the last independent trade and Recommendation the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the above the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid items are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
is 25p per Ordinary Share and 1p per Subscription Share.
Existing Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to the shares which are purchased under this authority will either be shareholders that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to cancelled or held as Treasury Shares.
Any Subscription Shares be proposed at the forthcoming AGM as the Directors intend to purchased will be cancelled.
do in respect of their own beneficial holdings totalling 35,753 Special Resolution No.
14 in the Notice of AGM will renew the shares.
authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of Ordinary Shares in issue on 6 June 2014, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, amounting to 6,994,615 Ordinary Shares.
Special Resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of the Subscription Shares in issue as 6 June 2014, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, amounting to 223,530 Subscription Shares.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of 15 months from the date of 78 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
