Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible theGroup and parent company financial statements in accordance for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration with applicable law and regulations.
report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Union and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Directors considerthat the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial and understandable and provides the information necessary for statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their modeland strategy.
profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure statements, the Directors are required to: andTransparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within f select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: theCorporate governance statement, confirm that, to the best of f make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: theirknowledge: f state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs f the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in as adopted by the European Union: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit f prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis oftheGroup: and unlessit is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parentcompany will continue in business.
f the Strategic report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the position of the Group, together with a description of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent anddetect fraud and other irregularities.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
