Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Contacts Financial Calendar 2014 Chief Executive Officer 2014 full year results 25 November 2014 Alex Chesterman Record date for final dividend 5 December 2014 Chief Financial Officer Interim Management statement 12 February 2015 Stephen Morana Annual General Meeting 12 February 2015 Company Secretary Payment date for final dividend 23 February 2015 Ned Staple Half year results May 2015 Head of Communications Payment date for interim dividend July 2015 Lawrence Hall Website: Shareholder enquiries www.
co. uk The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding Registered Office your shareholding or dividends.
Please notify them of your change of address or other personal Zoopla Property Group Plc information.
Their address details are: Harlequin Building Equiniti 65 Southwark Street Aspect House London SE1 0HR Spencer Road Lancing Corporate advisers West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditor Deloitte LLP Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Remuneration advisers Equiniti helpline: 0871 384 2030 calls cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras  LLP Overseas: 44 121 415 7047 Brokers Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities included electronic Jefferies Hoare Govett communications, account enquiries, amendment of address and dividend mandate instructions.
Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Registrar Equiniti Limited Note on forward-looking statements This report includes statements related to our future business, financial f a change in the competition within the industry in which we operate: performance and future events or developments that may constitute f a change, due to various factors which may include the forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be macroeconomic conditions in which we operate, in the level identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms oftransactions in the UK residential property market: believes, estimates, anticipates, plans, projects, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative, or other variations f a change in technological developments: or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include f the loss of any of our important commercial relationships: and matters that are not historical facts.
They appear throughout this report and include statements relating to our beliefs, intentions or current f any increase in litigation or disputes expectations concerning a number of matters including our results of We caution that the foregoing list of factors may not contain all of the liquidity, the effect of our financial performance on our share price, financial material factors that are important to you and you should not place condition, prospects, growth and expansion, strategies and the industry undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only in which we operate.
All forward-looking statements are based upon as of the date of this Annual Report.
We undertake no obligation, and information available to us on the date of this Annual Report.
While we are not under any obligation, to update or keep current the information believe that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we caution contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known or unknown futureevents or otherwise.
factors or toanticipate all factors that could affect our actual results.
As such, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to: Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 97 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014 Zoopla Property Group Plcs commitment to environmental issues is reflected Zoopla Property Group Plc in this Annual Report which has been printed on Core silk which is an FSC Harlequin Building certified paper.
This document was printed by Park Communications using 65 Southwark Street their environmental print technology, whichminimises the impact of printing London SE1 0HR on the environment.
Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of all dry waste associated with this production is diverted from landfill.
co. uk ParkCommunications is a CarbonNeutralprinter.
