Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies and basis of accounting The Directors have applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The accounting policies and the financial risk management policies, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the consolidated Group as set out in Notes 1 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
Income statement The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented an income statement.
The loss for the period ended 30 September 2014 was 318,000.
Auditors remuneration The Company incurred a cost of 30,000 for statutory audit services for the period ended 30 September 2014.
This cost was paid on behalf ofthe Zoopla Property Group Plc by the Companys subsidiary, ZPG Limited.
Employee costs and Directors remuneration The Company has no employees other than the Directors of the Company.
Remuneration paid to the Directors was accounted for and paid bythe Groups trading entity, ZPG Limited.
Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 61 ofthe Annual Report.
Investments in subsidiaries The investment in subsidiaries balance of 91,332,000 represents the Companys 100% shareholding in ZPG Limited, acquired as part of the restructuring prior to Admission on 23 June 2014.
On restructuring the Company recognised an investment of 90,913,000 in ZPG Limited, being the value of ZPG Limiteds net assets at the restructuring date.
The Company has applied merger accounting in line with the Companies Act 2006 to record the restructuring.
A merger reserve of 90,495,000 was created on acquisition.
The balance of 418,000 represents the nominal value of the shares issued on Admission.
Subsequent to the restructuring the Company recognised an increase in the investment in respect of the Groups share schemes.
Consistent withtheGroup accounting policies outlined in Note 1.19 to the consolidated financial statements, equity-settled share options granted directly toasubsidiary are treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary.
The capital contribution is measured by reference to the consolidated share-based payments charge and is recognised as an increase in the cost of investment with a corresponding credit toretainedearnings.
Thecredit to retained earnings does not make up part of distributable reserves.
2014 000 Initial investment in ZPG Limited at restructuring 90,913 Share-based payments capital contribution 419 Balance as at 30 September 2014 91,332 5.
Equity Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are included in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the investment recognised on restructuring in ZPG Limited of 90.9 million and the value oftheshares issued of 0.4 million.
Financial instruments The IFRS 7 Financial Instruments disclosures, where relevant to the Company, are consistent with those of the Group as set out inNote 23 totheconsolidated financial statements.
The Company has an intercompany payable to its subsidiary, ZPG Limited, of 348,000 onthe statement of financial position at 30 September 2014.
The carrying value of the balance is considered approximate to its fair value.
Zoopla Property Group Plc zpg.
co. uk 95 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 7.
Related parties a Key management personnel Ther e are no employees of the Company.
The Directors are employed and or remunerated by ZPG Limited.
There were no transactions during the year between the Directors and the Company other than the issue of shares and share options as outlined in the Directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 61. b Subsidiaries In June 2014 the Gr oup was restructured on Admission to the London Stock exchange.
Each of the shareholders of ZPG Limited took part inashare-for-share exchange whereby they were issued with 10 new shares in Zoopla Property Group Plc with a nominal value of 0.001 inexchange for one ZPG Limited share.
This resulted in the insertion of Zoopla Property Group Plc at the top of the Group as the new parent company.
For the year ended 30 September 2014 the Company entered into transactions with its subsidiary as set out below.
Transactions with subsidiaries During the year ZPG Limited settled bills to the value of 348,000 2013: nil on behalf of Zoopla Property Group Plc in order to settle costs incurred on restructuring and the Companys audit fee.
Other than the transaction outlined above, the Company issues shares to employees and estate agent members of its subsidiary as part of the Groups share-based payment schemes as set out in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
There have been noother transactions with theCompanys subsidiary during the year.
Year end balances with subsidiaries The balance of 348,000 transferred from ZPG Limited during the year is still outstanding at 30 September 2014.
This amount will be settledonreceipt of any dividend from ZPG Limited.
No interest is payable on the balance.
There were no other related party transactions in the period.
c Other related parties There were no transactions between the Company and any other related parties.
Subsequent events There have been no reportable subsequent events between 30 September 2014 and the date of signing of this report.
Ultimate controlling party The Directors are of the opinion that there was no ultimate controlling party in either period presented.
96 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014
