Financial statements Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the annual report and financial statements strategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report, nomination report and corporate governance The directors are responsible for preparing the annual statement.
These reports are contained within the annual report and financial statements in accordance with the report and financial statements.
Companies Jersey Law, 1991 the Law and applicable laws and regulations.
The Law requires the Company to These financial statements for the year ended 31 December prepare financial statements in accordance with generally 2014 have been prepared on a going concern basis, accepted accounting principles and Company has chosen which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation to prepare the accounts in accordance with International of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the preparing the financial statements.
European Union and applicable law.
The directors consider that the annual report and financial Under the Law, the directors must not approve the accounts statements, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view understandable and provide the information necessary of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial business model and strategy.
statements, accounting standards require that directors: The Board receives written assurances from the CEO and select suitable accounting policies and apply them CFO that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the consistently: Groups financial position presents a true and fair view and make judgments and accounting estimates that are that the financial statements are founded on a sound system reasonable and prudent: of risk management, internal compliance and control.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Further, they confirm that the Groups risk management and specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable internal compliance is operating efficiently and effectively.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, The Board recognises that internal control assurances other events and conditions on the entitys financial from the CEO and CFO can only be reasonable rather position and financial performance: and than absolute, and therefore they are not and cannot be designed to detect all weaknesses in control procedures.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements have been audited by the independent audit and accounting firm, The directors are responsible for keeping adequate  LLP, who were given unrestricted accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain access to all financial records and related information, the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with including minutes of all shareholder, Board and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of committee meetings.
the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Law.
They are also The financial statements were approved by the Board of responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Directors on 23 March 2015 and signed on their behalf by: for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Andrew Pardey Pierre Louw The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Due to the Companys place of incorporation and its dual listing, it is subject to legislation in the United Kingdom, Canada and Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
