Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
General information Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, clarifies that the right of setoff must not be contingent on a future incorporated in Jersey and operating through subsidiaries event.
It must also be legally enforceable for all counterparties and jointly controlled entities operating in Egypt, Ethiopia, in the normal course of business, as well as in the event of United Kingdom and Australia.
It is the parent company of the default, insolvency or bankruptcy.
The amendment also considers Group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries and jointly settlement mechanisms.
The amendment did not have a significant controlled entities.
effect on the Group financial statements.
Registered office and principal place of business: Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets, on the recoverable Centamin plc amount disclosures for nonfinancial assets.
This amendment 2 Mulcaster Street removed certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities This amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group are set out in the directors report and the strategic report of the financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement on the novation of derivatives and the continuation of hedge accounting.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards changes to overthecounter derivatives and the establishment In the current year, no new and revised Standards and of central counterparties.
Under IAS 39 novation of derivatives Interpretations have been adopted that have affected the amounts to central counterparties would result in discontinuance of reported in these financial statements.
Standards not affecting the reported results nor the The amendment provides relief from discontinuing hedge financial position accounting when novation of a hedging instrument meets specified The following Standards have been adopted by the Group for the criteria.
This amendment did not have a significant effect on the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2014: Group financial statements.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements builds on existing IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining pay a levy if that liability is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions.
factor in whether an entity should be included within the The interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
gives rise to pay a levy and when a liability should be recognised.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the The Group is subject to royalty payments to the Egyptian Mineral determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
See Note 3 Resource Authority EMRA which meets the definition of a levy, for the impact on the financial statements.
however, the impact on the Group of adopting this interpretation IFRS 11 Joint arrangements focuses on the rights and obligations is not material.
of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
Other standards, amendments and interpretations which are There are two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and effective for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2014 are not joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where the investors have rights material to the Group.
to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of an arrangement.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a A joint operator accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the investors review has been completed.
have rights to the net assets of the arrangement: joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
Proportional consolidation New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted of joint arrangements is no longer permitted.
See Note 3 for the A number of new standards and amendments to standards and impact of adoption on the financial statements.
interpretations are for annual periods beginning after 1 January IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the 2014, and have not been effective applied in preparing these disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, consolidated financial statement.
None of these is expected to including joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements other off balance sheet vehicles.
This amendment did not have a of the Group, except the following set out below: significant effect on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments, addresses the classification, Had the Group adopted IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 effective measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 1 January 2013 as required by the IFRS as issued by the IASB, there liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. would have been no material impact on the financial statements.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through profit and loss.
The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured 106 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information at fair value through profit or loss with the irrevocable option at The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the modified by availableforsale financial assets, and financial assets incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit There are no changes in these accounting policies for the year risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at ended 31 December 2014 except as disclosed below Changes in fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements accounting policy.
for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge Changes in accounting policy effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between On 1 January 2014, the Group adopted IFRS 10 Consolidated the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged financial statements, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, IFRS 12 ratio to be the same as the one management actually use for risk Disclosure of interests in other entities, a revised version of IAS 27 management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still Separate financial statements and a revised version of IAS 28 required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39.
Investments in associates and joint ventures which have been The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or amended for conforming changes based on the issuance of IFRS 10 after 1 January 2018.
The Group adopted the amendments to the transition to assess IFRS 9s full impact.
guidance for IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 as well as IFRIC 21 Levies.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers deals with IFRS 10 replaces IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful statements and SIC12 Consolidation special purpose entities, information to users of financial statements about the nature, and establishes a single control model that applies to all entities, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising including those that were previously considered special purpose from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised entities under SIC12.
An investor controls an investee when it has when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has power over the relevant activities, exposure to variable returns the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good from the investee, and the ability to affect those returns through its or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 power over the investee.
The assessment of control is based on all Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard facts and circumstances and the conclusion is reassessed if there is is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 an indication that there are changes in facts and circumstances.
and earlier application is permitted.
The Group is assessing the On adopting IFRS 10, the Group has assessed its interest in its impact of IFRS 15. principal asset, Sukari Gold Mine SGM which is jointly owned There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet by the Groups wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines effective that would be expected to have a material impact on NL PGM and EMRA on a 50% equal basis.
considered the relevant activities of SGM and who has the power over these activities and is exposed to variable returns from its involvement with SGM and has the ability to affect those returns 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies through its power over the relevant activities of SGM.
Accordingly, Basis of preparation the Group has consolidated this interest.
These financial statements are denominated in United States A NonControlling Interest NCI is recorded in relation to the dollars, which is the functional currency of Centamin plc.
equity in the subsidiaries that is not attributable to the parent.
All companies in the Group use the United States dollar as their functional currency except for the UK subsidiaries which are There has been no impact upon the comparatives as SGM has denominated in Great British pounds and the Australian subsidiaries previously been 100% proportionally consolidated within the which are denominated in Australian dollars.
All financial Group reflecting the substance and economic reality of the information presented in United States dollars has been rounded Concession Agreement.
to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities including The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with amendments to the transition guidance for IFRS 1012 issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued in June 2012, which requires annual disclosures of the nature, by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and associated risks, and financial effects of interests in subsidiaries, adopted for use by the European Union, the Companies Jersey joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured Law 1991, and IFRS as issued by the IASB, therefore the Group entities became effective for annual periods beginning on or after financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 107 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued costs, including those accumulated prior to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated Basis of preparation continued cost per annum.
Changes in accounting policy continued Changes in accounting estimate EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% except for, in accordance with the terms of the Concession Agreement, in the first four On 1 January 2014, the Group changed its accounting estimate in years where it shall be 40% for the first two years and 45% for relation to the useful economic life of Sukari plant and equipment the following two years of SGMs net production surplus EMRA capitalised within plant and equipment.
Plant and equipment Profit Share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty was previously depreciated on a straightline basis over a 45 year to Arab Republic of Egypt ARE and recoverable costs.
Based economic life, however, as a result of the commissioning of Stage 4, on the Companys calculation there was no net profit share due the current life of mine is 20 years and as such the useful economic to EMRA as at 31 December 2014, nor is any likely to be due as life of the Sukari plant and equipment has been reduced to 20 years at 30 June 2015.
Accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been from 1 January 2014. recognised to date.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these The impact of this change is shown below: provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a Depreciation expense for the year ended variable charge in the income statement below profit after tax of 31 December 2014 old basis 5,843 Centamin, which will lead to a reduction in the earnings per share.
Depreciation expense for the year ended Going concern 31 December 2014 new basis 11,143 These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate Principles of consolidation the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining normal course of operations.
the financial statements of all the entities that comprise the consolidated entity, being the Company the parent entity and The Group meets its daytoday working capital requirements its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured through existing cash resources, as discussed in Note 20, during entities over which the Group has control, as defined in IFRS 10 2012 the operation of the mine was affected by two legal actions.
Consistent accounting The first of these followed from a decision taken by EGPC to charge policies are employed in the preparation and presentation of the international, not local subsidised prices for the supply of Diesel consolidated financial statements.
Fuel Oil to Sukari, and the second arose as a result of a judgment of the Administrative Court in relation to, amongst other matters, The consolidated financial statements include the information and 2 the Companys 160km exploitation lease.
With regard to the first results of each subsidiary from the date on which the Company decision, the Company remains confident that in the event that it is obtains control and until such time as the Company ceases to required to continue to pay international prices, the mine at Sukari control such entity.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is will remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the Company remains exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement confident that the appeal it has lodged in relation to the decision of with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its the Administrative Court will ultimately be successful, although final power over the entity.
resolution of the matter may take some time.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany With respect to the legal action, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme balances and transactions, and unrealised profits arising within the Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to consolidated entity are eliminated in full.
suspend the decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly owned by PGM and EMRA considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal on a 50% equal basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM is wholly operations would be able to continue during this process.
Sukari consolidated within the Centamin group of companies reflecting has operated as usual throughout the period.
the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both see Note 21 and will therefore recognise a noncontrolling of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to interest NCI for EMRAs participation.
Furthermore based on a reduced area, it is the directors belief that the Group will be able the requirements of the Concession Agreement, payments to NCI to continue as going concern.
meet the definition of a liability and will be recorded in the income statement and statement of financial position below profit after After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation tax, as the EMRA profit share, on the date that a net production that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in surplus becomes available.
Payment made to EMRA pursuant to operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group the provisions of the Concession Agreement is based on the net therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing production surplus available as at 30 June, being SGMs financial these financial statements.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, PGM solely funds SGMs activities.
PGM is also entitled to recover the following costs and expenses payable from sales revenue excluding the royalty payable to the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE a all current operating expenses incurred and paid after the initial commercial production: b exploration costs, including those accumulated to the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated cost per annum : and c exploitation capital 108 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Accounting policies Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any ensures that the resulting financial statements satisfy the concepts interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance gains and losses line item in the income statement.
of the underlying transactions or other events is reported.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, Other financial liabilities unless otherwise stated.
Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially The following significant policies have been adopted in the measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial preparation and presentation of these financial statements: liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an Cash and cash equivalents effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating equivalents are shortterm, highlyliquid investments that are readily interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments insignificant risk of changes in value.
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where Financial instruments appropriate, a shorter period.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups Derecognition of financial liabilities balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, provisions of the instrument.
the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial assets Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial Financial assets are recognised and derecognised on trade date liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract contractual arrangement.
whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the Equity instruments timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit or loss Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the which are initially measured at fair value.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are Financial liabilities measured at cost in the Company financial statements.
Other financial assets are loans and receivables.
The classification Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets value through profit or loss FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Effective interest method Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial The effective interest method is a method of calculating the liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the in the near term: or expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent Availableforsale financial assets AFS actual pattern of shortterm profit taking: or Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the Group it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS hedging instrument.
and are stated at fair value.
The Group also has investments in A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but that are be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Fair such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a value is determined in the manner described in Note 26.
Gains and measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other arise: or comprehensive income and accumulated profits with the exception the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment with the Groups documented risk management or investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain strategy, and information about the grouping is provided or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve internally on that basis: or is reclassified to profit or loss.
it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or when the Groups right to receive the dividends is established.
liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 109 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets Accounting policies continued The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or Financial assets continued when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks Availableforsale financial assets AFS continued and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the comprehensive income.
financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the Loans and receivables proceeds received.
Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or Employee benefits determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees in are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are respect of wages and salaries, annual leave, long service leave and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method sick leave when it is probable that settlement will be required and less impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective they are capable of being measured reliably.
interest rate except for shortterm receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits expected to be settled within twelve months, are measured at their nominal Impairment of financial assets values using the remuneration rate expected to apply at the time of Financial assets, other than those at fair value through profit or loss, settlement.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
which are not expected to be settled within twelve months are Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence measured as the present value of the estimated future cash flows to that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services provided recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows by employees up to reporting date.
of the investment have been impacted.
For financial assets carried Superannuation at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of The Company contributes to, but does not participate in, estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective compulsory superannuation funds defined contribution schemes interest rate.
on behalf of the employees and directors in respect of salaries and directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against income as The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the they are made.
impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
separate area of interest are recognised as an exploration and Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are evaluation asset in the year in which they are incurred where the credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying following conditions are satisfied: amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
a the rights to tenure of the area of interest are current: and With the exception of availableforsale equity instruments, if, in a b at least one of the following conditions is also met: subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases i the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring to be recouped through successful development and after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale: impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent the or carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have ii exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest been had the impairment not been recognised.
have not at the reporting date reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence or In respect of availableforsale equity instruments, any subsequent otherwise of economically recoverable reserves, and active increase in fair value after an impairment loss is recognised in other and significant operations in, or in relation to, the area of comprehensive income.
Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, exploration drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
General and administrative costs are only included in the measurement of exploration and evaluation costs where they are related directly to operational activities in a particular area of interest.
110 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when Inventories facts and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable evaluation of mineral resources suggest that the carrying amount value.
Costs including an appropriate portion of fixed and variable of exploration and evaluation assets may exceed its recoverable overhead expenses are assigned to inventory on hand by the amount.
The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation method appropriate to each particular class of inventory, with assets or the cashgenerating unit s to which it has been allocated, the majority being valued on a weighted average cost basis.
being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the the sale.
asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and bullion are valued applying but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not absorption costing.
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had Interests in joint ventures no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
The Group applies IFRS 11 to joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 Where a decision is made to proceed with development in investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint respect of a particular area of interest, the relevant exploration operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, reclassified to mine and obligations each investor.
Joint ventures are accounted development properties, and then amortised over the life of the for using the equity method.
In relation to its interests in joint reserves associated with the area of interest once mining operations operations, the Group recognises its share of assets and liabilities: have commenced.
revenue from the sale of its share of the output: and its share Mine development expenditure is recognised at cost less of expenses.
accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
When SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin group of commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the the associated costs are amortised over the estimated economic life Concession Agreement see Note 21. of the mine on a units of production basis.
Leased assets Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and probable Leased assets are classified as finance leases when the terms of reserves that affect unit of production calculations are dealt with the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental on a prospective basis.
to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee.
All other leases are Foreign currencies classified as operating leases.
The individual financial statements of each group entity are Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on presented in its functional currency being the currency of the a straightline basis over the lease term, except where other primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent results and financial position of each entity are expressed in rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the in the period in which they are incurred.
Group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements except for the UK subsidiaries which are denominated Property, plant and equipment PPE in Great British pounds and the Australian subsidiaries which are Plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation denominated in Australian dollars.
Plant and equipment will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, attributable to the acquisition of the item as well as the estimated transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency cost of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or part are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is determined by transactions.
At each reporting date, monetary items denominated discounting the amounts payable in the future to their present in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at value as at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent costs are included the reporting date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the Nonmonetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated restoration costs associated with the asset.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straightline basis so as to write off the net cost or other revalued amount of each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated residual value.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 111 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued a it is probable that the future economic benefit improved access to the ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to Accounting policies continued the entity: Property, plant and equipment PPE continued The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method b the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which are reviewed at the end of each annual financial period, with the access has been improved: and effect of any changes recognised on a prospective basis.
c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that Freehold land is not depreciated.
component can be measured reliably.
The following estimated useful lives are used in the calculation of When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory depreciation: produced are not separately identifiable, production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory produced and the stripping Plant and equipment 2 20 years activity asset by using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant Office equipment 3 7 years production measure.
A stripping activity asset is accounted for Mining equipment 2 13 years as an addition to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset and Buildings 4 20 years classified as tangible or intangible according to the nature of the The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is existing asset of which it forms part.
A stripping activity asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at cost or its carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
revalued amount less depreciation or amortisation and impairment losses.
A stripping activity asset is depreciated or amortised on Mine development properties a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the identified Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, the component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as accumulated costs are transferred from exploration and evaluation a result of the stripping activity.
The stripping activity asset is assets to mine development properties.
depreciated using a units of production method based on the Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures total ounces to be produced over the life of the component of the from the date of first commercial production.
mine properties is on a unit of production basis resulting in an Deferred stripping costs are included in stripping assets, within amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the proved tangible assets.
These form part of the total investment in the and probable ore reserves.
The unit of production can be on a relevant cashgenerating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying value Capitalised underground development costs incurred to enable may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is access to specific ore blocks or areas of the underground mine, and included in operating costs.
which only provide an economic benefit over the period of mining Impairment of assets other than exploration that ore block or area, are depreciated on a units of production and evaluation and financial assets basis, whereby the denominator is estimated ounces of gold in At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts proven and probable reserves within that ore block or area where of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there it is considered probable that those resources will be extracted is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment economically.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of Stripping activity assets the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the The Group defers stripping costs incurred removal of mine waste impairment loss if any.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, materials which provide improved access to further quantities of assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely material that will be mined in future periods.
This waste removal independent cash inflows cashgenerating units.
activity is known as stripping.
There can be two benefits accruing Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value loss costs to sell and to the entity from the stripping activity: value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and flows are discounted to their present value using a pretax discount improved access to further quantities of material that will be rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of mined in future periods.
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future flows have not been adjusted.
The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in accordance with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the extent that the If the recoverable amount of a cashgenerating unit is estimated benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the produced.
The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit in cashgenerating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Where the form of improved access to ore is recognised as a noncurrent an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount stripping activity asset where the following criteria are met: of the cashgenerating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the cashgenerating unit in prior years.
112 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit Business combinations or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, Acquisitions of businesses as defined by IFRS 3 are accounted in which case the reversal of an impairment loss is treated as a for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each revaluation increase.
acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, Revenue and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received of the acquiree.
Acquisitionrelated costs are recognised in profit or or receivable for goods and services in the normal course of loss as incurred.
business, net of discounts, VAT and other salesrelated taxes.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes Sale of goods any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when arrangement, measured at its acquisitiondate fair value.
the Group has passed the significant risks and rewards of ownership Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the of the mineral production to the buyer, it is probable that economic cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair the sales price can be measured reliably, and the Group has no value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability significant continuing involvement and the costs incurred or to be are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 either in profit or incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Changes in This is when insurance risk has passed to the buyer and the goods the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are have been collected at the agreed location.
not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for Where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for within equity.
an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups mineral production by the buyer for instance an assay for gold previouslyheld interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to content, recognition of the revenue from the sale of mineral fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains production is based on the most recently determined estimate control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit of product specifications.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the Preproduction revenues acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such production is offset against the expenditure capitalised and carried treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
in the consolidated statement of financial position.
All revenues The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised after commencement of commercial production are that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated above.
recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: The commencement date of commercial production is determined deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to when stable and sustained production capacity has been achieved.
employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured Production royalty in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% benefits respectively: of net sales revenue revenue net of freight and refining costs liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by as defined from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the Group of an acquirees sharebased payment awards are the Sukari Project.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased payment: receipt of the final certificate of analysis document received from and the refinery.
Due to its nature, this royalty is not recognised in cost assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in of sales but rather in other operating costs.
accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent assets held for sale.
Other income Assets held for sale and discontinued operations are measured Interest income in accordance with that Standard.
If the initial accounting for a Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 113 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Sharebased payments Accounting policies continued Equity settled sharebased payments with employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the Business combinations continued equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value is measured by the use The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition of the Black Scholes model.
Where sharebased payments are to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is a MonteCarlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant subject to a maximum of one year.
date of the equity settled sharebased payments is expensed over Investments in associates the vesting period, based on the consolidated entitys estimate of An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant shares that will eventually vest.
influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint Equity settled sharebased transactions with other parties are venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not except where the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which control or joint control over those policies.
case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, counterparty renders the service.
The fair value of the employee except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which services received in exchange for the grant of the options is case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried including any market performance conditions for example, in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for an entitys share price : postacquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets excluding the impact of any service and nonmarket of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual performance vesting conditions for example, profitability and investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time in that associate which includes any longterm interests that, in period : and substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate including the impact of any nonvesting conditions for example, are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for a legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of specific period of time.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is and share premium.
The goodwill is included within the carrying The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, that investment.
exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Further details Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the on how the fair value of equity settled sharebased transactions has identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost been determined can be found in Note 27.
At each reporting date, of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments profit or loss.
The impact of the revision of the original Where a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss over the remaining profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups vesting period, with corresponding adjustment to the equity settled interest in the relevant associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any Issued capital objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share Where the Company or other members of the consolidated Group of profit loss of associates in the income statement.
purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the recognised in the income statement.
Group and or of the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity of the Group and or the Company.
114 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same and deferred tax.
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax Current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Restoration and rehabilitation Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised when statement of comprehensive income because of items of income there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and exploration, development and production activities undertaken, items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or to settle the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The estimated future obligations include the Deferred tax costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to provision at each reporting date.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation provision against which those deductible temporary differences can be relating to exploration, development and mining production utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised activities is capitalised into the cost of the related asset and if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial amortised on the same basis as the related asset, unless the present recognition other than in a business combination of other assets obligation arises from the production of the inventory in the period, and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit in which case the amount is included in the cost of production for nor the accounting profit.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary and rehabilitation are treated in the same manner, except that differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the provision is associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group recognised as a finance cost rather than being capitalised into is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it the cost of the related asset.
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and 4.
Critical accounting judgments interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that Critical judgments in applying the entitys accounting policies there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the The following are the critical judgments that management has benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies reverse in the foreseeable future.
and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Management has discussed its critical accounting judgments probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all and associated disclosures with the Companys Audit and or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 115 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 4.
Critical accounting judgments continued In the unlikely event that the Group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation to a reduced area, it is managements belief that the Group will be and financial assets able to continue as going concern.
IFRS requires management to test for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation a finite lived asset may not be recoverable.
Management have and development expenditure concluded that there is no indication that an impairment exists, The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation nor have any indicators arisen after the reporting period and are expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure being therefore not required to perform a full impairment review under capitalised for those projects where such expenditure is considered IAS 36. likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which In making its assessment as to the possibility of whether permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
impairments losses having arisen, Management considered the following indications: This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular internal sources of information: whether the Group will proceed with development based on external sources of information: existence of reserves or whether an economically viable extraction litigation: operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions the key assumptions applied in the 31 December 2013 may change from period to period as new information becomes impairment review: available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and evaluation forecast gold prices: expenditure being capitalised, a judgment is made that recovery discount rate: of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, production volumes: the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the reserves and resources report: and income statement.
As described in Note 13 to the financial statements, in February 2015, the Company gave formal notice to Alecto Minerals plc Litigation Alecto terminating the joint venture agreement entered into The Group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising between the Company and Centamin in September 2013 with provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related regards to the development of Alectos licences in Ethiopia.
to pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see Note 20 to the financial statements.
Judgment is necessary Centamins rights in the Wayu Boda and Aysid Metekel licences in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, have reverted back to Alecto, such that Alecto will hold 100% or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the of the licences and will assume responsibility for the ongoing financial settlement.
commitments in respect of the licences on termination of the joint venture and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to The Group is currently a party to two legal actions both of which date including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences, could affect its ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the manner amounting to US$2,327,778.
in which it is currently operated and adversely affect its profitability.
The details of this litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian Going concern national subsidy for diesel fuel oil and the ability of the Group to Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council 2 operate outside the area of 3km determined by the Administrative FRC the directors of UK listed companies are required to Court of first instance to be the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis are given in Note 20 to the financial statements and in the most of preparation of financial statements.
recently filed Annual Information Form AIF which is available Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, on SEDAR at www.
Although it is possible to quantify in which any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on the effects of the loss the national fuel subsidy, it is not currently which cash flow forecast is based, the directors have a reasonable possible to quantify with sufficient precision the effect of restricting expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to 2 operations to an area of 3km.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Key Every action is being taken to contest these decisions, including assumptions underpinning this forecast include: the making of formal legal appeals and, although their resolution litigation as discussed in Note 20 to the financial statements: may take some time, management remain confident that a forecast gold price: satisfactory outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the meantime, production volumes: and however, the Group is continuing to pay international prices for diesel fuel oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court ruling, costs and recovery rates.
on 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the These financial statements for the year ended 31 December Companys application to suspend this decision until the merits of 2014 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus providing which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of assurance that normal operations would be able to continue during liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing this process.
116 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, SGM is consolidated within the Centamin Group of companies, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation Agreement see Note 21 to the financial statements.
charged to the statement of comprehensive income and the Key sources of estimation uncertainty calculation of inventory.
The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, Production forecasts from the underground mine at Sukari are partly and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting based on estimates regarding future resource and reserve growth.
date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment It is the opinion of management and directors that these estimates to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next are both realistic and conservative, based on current information.
financial year: However, as the mine relies on continued deeper development and Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs exploration drilling for further reserve definition, the life of this part The Group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and restore of the mine remains limited and there is a risk that some or all of mines and processing sites at the end of their producing lives to this growth will not materialise with a consequent negative impact a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
The provision on current production forecasts which affect the unit of production has been calculated taking into account the estimated future used in depreciation calculations.
obligations including the costs of dismantling and removal Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs of facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs The provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the at the Sukari mine is based on reserve estimates.
Management present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration and directors believe that these estimates are both realistic and obligation at the reporting date.
conservative, based on current information.
However, as the mine Ore reserve estimates relies on continued deeper development and exploration drilling Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions for further reserve definition, the estimated reserves may change on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and with a consequent negative impact on the carrying value of production costs for future cash flows.
It also involves assessment capitalised underground mine development.
and judgment of complex geological models.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may 5.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Gold sales 471,776 503,128 Silver sales 805 697 472,581 503,825 All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 117 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 6.
Profit before tax Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and expenses: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 214,370 61,564 275,934 184,608 53,130 237,738 Movement in inventory 2,839 970 1,869 8,973 2,126 11,099 Depreciation and amortisation 84,232 84,232 50,798 50,798 295,763 62,534 358,297 226,433 51,004 277,437 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 410 690 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 1,339 3,188 Corporate consultants 381 793 Employee entitlements 116 118 Salary and wages 6,135 5,854 Travel and accommodation 899 1,205 Other administration expenses 243 278 Employee equity settled sharebased payments 2,493 2,284 Fixed royalty attributable to the Egyptian government 14,144 15,074 Foreign exchange loss gain, net 2,900 9,621 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 538 563 1 Share of loss in associate 1,664 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,093 121 Lease payments 87 206 30,368 21,727 1 In the prior year, the share of loss in associate included a US$1,414,000 impairment of exploration and evaluation assets.
Refer to Note 14 for further details.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Impairment of assets 1 Impairment of availableforsale financial assets 436 12,911 2 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 2,328 6,503 2,764 19,414 1 Refer to Note 14 for further details.
2 Refer to Note 13 for further details.
118 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 1 2 Employee benefit expense Shortterm employee benefits 48,481 50,285 Longterm employee benefits 2 2 Postemployee benefits 9 10 Sharebased payments 2,493 2,284 50,985 52,581 1 Included in employee benefit expense is an amount of US$3,067,856 2013: US$7,713,163 capitalised to property, plant and equipment and US$1,288,211 2013: US$2,616,573 capitalised to exploration and evaluation assets during the year.
2 The average number of people including executive directors employed was 1,395 2013: 1,281.
Exceptional items The directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or nonrecurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items are shown below.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Included in cost of sales Mine production costs 61,564 53,130 Movement in inventory 970 2,126 62,534 51,004 In January 2012 the Company received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would not be able to continue supplying Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It is understood that EGPC itself took the decision to issue this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In addition, the Company during the year received a demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received in the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to some US$60 million EGP403 million.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in consequence in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is every prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply, the Group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for diesel.
As at the date of the financial statements, no final decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
Furthermore, the Group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be concluded in its favour.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has, fully provided against the prepayment of US$165.7 million, as an exceptional item, of which US$68.7 million was provided for during 2014 as follows: a a US$62.5 million increase in cost of sales 2013: US$51.0 million increase : b a US$0.2 million increase in stores inventories 2013: US$1.7 million increase : c a US$1.0 million decrease in mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 2013: US$2.1 million increase : and d a US$7.0 million increase in property, plant and equipment capital WIP 2013: US$0.8 million increase.
This has resulted in a net charge of US$62.5 million in the profit and loss.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 119 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 7.
Tax Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: Tax expense 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year 10 10 Deferred tax Total tax expense 10 In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL have elected to form a taxconsolidated group and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL has elected into the Branch Profits Exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a longterm tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 81,562 183,969 Add: share of loss in associate 1,664 81,562 185,633 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2013: 0% of profit before tax Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Effect of tax different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 10 Tax expense for the year 10 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2013: 0%.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared to the previous financial period.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities Current tax payable Tax consolidation Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity Companies within the Groups whollyowned Australian resident entities formed a taxconsolidated group with effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the taxconsolidated group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the taxconsolidated group are identified in Note 21.
120 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements Entities within the taxconsolidated group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a taxsharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the taxfunding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the taxconsolidated group has agreed to pay a taxequivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the taxconsolidated group.
The taxsharing agreement entered into between members of the taxconsolidated group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the taxsharing agreement is considered remote.
Segment reporting The Group is engaged in the business of exploration and mining of precious metals only, which represents a single operating segment.
The Board is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
Noncurrent assets other than financial instruments by country: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Egypt 999,745 1,007,161 Ethiopia 3,835 3,067 Burkina Faso 48,893 Cte dIvoire 977 Australia 2 1 United Kingdom 156 206 1,053,608 1,010,435 9.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent Deposits 24 Value added taxation refund 621 645 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Current Gold sales debtors 24,057 24,657 Other receivables 916 770 24,973 25,427 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The average age of the receivables is 21 days 2013: 18 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all receivable from Johnson Matthey of Canada.
The amount due has been received subsequent to year end and was considered to be fully recoverable.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 121 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 10.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit 35,768 33,899 Stores 104,860 101,370 140,628 135,269 Inventory writeoffs of US$16,174 2013: US$372,045 were recognised during the year.
Prepayments 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Current Prepayments 1,710 1,678 Fuel prepayments 1,710 1,678 1 Movement in fuel prepayments Balance at the beginning of the year Fuel prepayment recognised 68,737 55,578 2 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs see Note 6 61,564 53,130 Property, plant and equipment see Note 6 6,953 742 Inventories see Note 6 220 1,706 Balance at the end of the year 1 Refer to Note 6, Exceptional Items, for further details.
2 The cumulative fuel prepayment recognised and provision charged as at 31 December 2014 is as follows: Fuel prepayment recognised US$000 165,732 Provision charged to: Mine production costs US$000 151,348 Property, plant and equipment US$000 11,852 Inventories US$000 2,532 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent 3 EMRA 23,750 18,950 23,750 18,950 3 With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, PGM made advance payments to EMRA which will be netted off against future profit share that becomes payable to EMRA.
122 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 12.
The review did not lead to a recognition of an impairment loss.
The discount rate used in measuring value in use was 12% per annum and the assumed average gold price was US$1,342 per ounce.
No impairment review was performed in 2014 as no indicators of impairment were identified.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 123 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Exploration and evaluation asset 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 59,849 45,669 Expenditure for the period 28,841 20,683 Acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited 37,637 Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 2,328 6,503 Balance at the end of the period 123,999 59,849 The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves.
During the first half of the year the Group acquired a 100% interest in Ampella Mining Limited for a total consideration through the issue of shares in Centamin plc of US$48.5 million including a cash component of US$9.3 million and additional assets of US$1.6 million.
The transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition, using fair value measurement principles, with exploration rights covering an area of 2 2,350km, recorded as an addition to mineral properties in the period.
The tenements collectively known as the Batie West permits are Danhal, Donko, Dounkou, Gbingbina, Mabera, Tiopolo, Niorka, Bottara, Kaldera, Kpere Batie, Timboura and Kpere.
In February 2015 the Company gave formal notice to Alecto Minerals plc the AIM quoted mineral exploration company terminating the joint venture agreement dated September 2013, with regards to the development of Alectos licences in Ethiopia.
Centamins rights in the Wayu Boda and Aysid Metekel licences have reverted back to Alecto, such that Alecto will hold 100% of the licences and will assume responsibility for the ongoing commitments in respect of the licences on termination of the joint venture and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to date including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences.
Availableforsale financial assets and interests in associates 14.1 Availableforsale financial assets 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 989 5,613 Acquisitions 379 2,456 Disposals 91 822 Loss on foreign exchange movement 352 108 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 80 6,150 Impairment loss 436 Balance at the end of the period 409 989 The availableforsale financial asset at period end relates to a 11.34% 2013: 12.62% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited Nyota, a listed public company.
During the year, management made the decision to sell its interest in Nyota and the financial asset has now been classed as a current asset.
In 2013, as a result of the prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment in Nyota, an impairment loss has been recognised and the cumulative investments revaluation reserve balance within the accumulated profit reserve has been transferred to the statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Impairment loss being the transfer of unrealised loss from other comprehensive income 12,911 124 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 14.2 Interests in associates 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 3,132 Acquisitions 500 Share of loss in associate see Note 6 1,664 Impairment in interest in associate 1,968 Balance at the end of the period In the prior year the interest in associate related to the Groups 39.64% equity interest in Sahar Minerals Limited Sahar, of which 33% was acquired in July 2011, 3% acquired in December 2012, and a further 4% acquired in September 2013.
The associate holds exploration rights and continues to explore, however, management took the decision to write off the costs associated with the interest held in Sahar due to Sahars intention to put all assets into care and maintenance as a result of funding requirements.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 17,067 59,996 Other creditors and accruals 16,975 18,106 34,042 78,102 Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 16 days 2013: 69 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Current 1 Employee benefits 307 139 307 139 Noncurrent 2 Restoration and rehabilitation 3,015 7,638 3,015 7,638 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision Balance at beginning of the year 7,638 5,544 Provision derecognised additional provision recognised 5,161 1,531 Interest expense unwinding of discount 538 563 Balance at end of the year 3,015 7,638 1 Employee benefits relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements.
The current provision for employee benefits as at 31 December 2014 includes US$150,493 31 December 2013: US$139,111 of annual leave entitlements.
2 The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the directors best estimate of the future outflow of economic benefits that will be required to remove the facilities and restore the affected areas at the Groups sites discounted by 12% 2013: 7%.
This estimate has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed over the life of the mine, being 20 years.
A detailed review was undertaken as at 31 December 2014 as a result of the commissioning of Stage 4 which has resulted in the US$4,623,470 decrease in the provision.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 125 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 17.
Issued capital 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Number US$000 Number US$000 Fully paid ordinary shares Balance at beginning of the period 1,101,397,381 612,463 1,101,397,381 612,463 Issue of shares 50,710,603 48,218 Own shares acquired during the period 1,743 Transfer to share option reserve 2,635 Balance at end of the period 1,152,107,984 661,573 1,101,397,381 612,463 The authorised share capital is an unlimited number of no par value shares.
1 At 31 December 2014 the Company held 9,821,383 ordinary shares in treasury 2013: 11,013,888 ordinary shares.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See Note 27 for more details of the share options.
1 Refers to shares held by the trustee pursuant to the Deferred Bonus Share Plan.
Reserves 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve 4,098 5,761 4,098 5,761 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve Balance at beginning of the period 5,761 3,477 Sharebased payments expense 2,493 2,284 Transfer to accumulated profits 1,521 Transfer to issued capital 2,635 Balance at the end of the period 4,098 5,761 The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised vested.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve into accumulated profits when the options and warrants are forfeited.
Commitments for expenditure a Capital expenditure commitments 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 1 Plant and equipment Not longer than one year 3,474 Longer than one year and not longer than five years Longer than five years 3,474 1 As a result of the completion of Stage 4, the Group had no commitments for capital expenditure as at 31 December 2014.
126 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information b Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Office premises Not longer than one year 63 73 Longer than one year and not longer than five years 195 244 Longer than five years 258 317 Operating lease commitments are limited to office premises in Jersey.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities Fuel supply In January 2012, the Group received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to supply Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at international prices rather than at local subsidised prices, which had the effect of adding approximately US$150 per ounce to the cost of production.
It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November, the Group received a further demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to EGP403 million approximately US$60.5 million at current exchange rates.
The Group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the Group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst the matter is resolved, the Group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for fuel.
As at the date of this document, no decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The Group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$97.0 million, as an exceptional item.
Refer to Note 6 of the accompanying financial statements for further details on the impact of this exceptional provision on the Groups results for 2014.
No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
Concession Agreement court case On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, an independent member of the previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the Group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA and Centamins whollyowned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as Law 222 of 1994.
In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient evidence had 2 been submitted to court in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval from the relevant minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the court found that the exploitation lease 2 2 in respect of the area of 160km was not valid although it stated that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
2 Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document was not supplied to the court.
Upon notification of the judgment the Group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the Group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court was able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013 the court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process is under way.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 127 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 20.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets continued Contingent liabilities continued Concession Agreement court case continued EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on 27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal was lodged, supporting the Groups view in this matter.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to our investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
The Company does not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although it is aware of the potential for the process in Egypt to be lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
It therefore remains of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the Group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected to the extent that the Groups operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal case is heard.
Contingent assets There were no contingent assets at year end 31 December 2013: nil.
Subsidiaries The parent entity of the Group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2014 2013 incorporation % % Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 Viking Resources Limited Australia 100 100 North African Resources NL Australia 100 100 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL Australia 100 100 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments Egypt 50 50 Sukari Gold Mining Co Egypt 50 50 Centamin UK Limited voluntarily struck off United Kingdom 100 100 2 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Centamin Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 Sheba Exploration Limited Ethiopia 100 100 Centamin Limited Bermuda 100 100 Centamin West Africa Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Ampella Mining Limited Australia 100 Ampella Share Plan Ltd Australia 100 Ampella Mining Gold Pty Ltd Australia 100 West African Gold Reserve Pty Ltd Australia 100 Ampella Mining Gold SARL Burkina Faso 100 Ampella Mining SARL Burkina Faso 100 Ampella Mining Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 1 Dormant company.
2 Previously Sheba Exploration UK Plc.
128 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Arab Republic of Egypt granting PGM and EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and associated minerals in specific concession areas located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995.
2 In 2005 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an exploitation lease over 160km surrounding the Sukari Project site.
The exploitation lease was signed by PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial justification.
In 2006 SGM was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, exploitation and marketing operations in accordance with the Concession Agreement.
Responsibility for the daytoday management of the project rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
The fiscal terms of the Concession Agreement require that PGM solely funds SGM.
PGM is however entitled to recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as defined in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus or profit share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2014, PGM has not recovered its cost and accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date, It is anticipated that the first payment to EMRA will become payable during 2017.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable charge in the income statement.
The Concession Agreement grants certain tax exemptions, including the following: from 1 April 2010, being the date of commercial production, the Sukari Project is entitled to a 15 year exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian government on the revenues generated from the Sukari Project.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM will in due course file an application to extend the taxfree period for a further 15 years.
The extension of the taxfree period requires that there has been no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and that certain activities in new remote areas have been planned and agreed by all parties: PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of machinery, equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the Sukari Project.
The exemption shall only apply if there is no local substitution with the same or similar quality to the imported machinery, equipment or consumables.
Such exemption will also be granted if the local substitution is more than 10% more expensive than the imported machinery, equipment or consumables after the additional of the insurance and transportation costs: PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari Project: PGM at all times is free to transfer in US$ or other freely convertible foreign currency any cash of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government limitation, tax or duty: PGMs contractors and subcontractors are entitled to import machinery.
Equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty: and legal title of all operating assets of PGM will pass to EMRA when cost recovery is completed.
The right of use of all fixed and movable assets remains with PGM and SGM.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 129 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 22.
Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 300 301 Additional fees relating to the prior year 67 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 100 50 Total audit fees 400 418 Nonaudit fees: Audit related assurance services interim review 100 140 Other assurance services 125 49 Tax compliance services 56 Tax advisory services 60 Other expenses Total nonaudit fees 225 305 The Audit and Risk Committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for nonaudit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been preapproved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The amounts paid in 2014 were paid to our current external auditors and the amounts paid in 2013 were paid to our previous external auditors.
Joint arrangements The consolidated entity has an interest in the following joint arrangement: Percentage interest 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Name of joint operation % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments exploration 50 50 1 Dormant company.
The Group has a US$1 cash interest in the above joint operation.
The amount is included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Capital commitments arising from the Groups interests in joint operation are disclosed in Note 19.
130 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 24.
Earnings per share 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Cents per share Cents per share Basic earnings per share 7.208 16.873 Diluted earnings per share 7.113 16.767 Basic earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share arenas follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 81,562 183,959 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,131,521,652 1,090,242,853 Diluted earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 81,562 183,959 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,131,521,652 1,090,242,853 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 15,098,842 6,902,032 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS 1,146,620,494 1,097,144,885 No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
Notes to the statements of cash flows a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 125,659 105,979 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 131 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 25.
Notes to the statements of cash flows continued b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 81,562 183,959 Add less noncash items: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 84,290 50,888 Stock writeoff 11 372 Decrease in provisions 5,234 2,729 Foreign exchange rate gain loss, net 4,455 7,788 Impairment of availableforsale financial assets 436 12,911 Share of loss in associate 1,664 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,093 Impairment of associate 1,968 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 2,328 6,503 Sharebased payments expense 2,493 2,284 Changes in working capital during the period: Decrease in trade and other receivables 454 15,309 Increase in inventories 5,359 40,633 Increase in prepayments 4,832 20,162 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 49,685 41,287 Cash flows generated from operating activities 112,012 245,833 c Noncash financing and investing activities During the year there have been no noncash financing and investing activities other than the Ampella asset acquisition as disclosed in Note 13.
Financial instruments a Group risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The Group has no debt and thus is not geared at year end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in Notes 17 and 18.
The Group operates in Australia, Jersey, Egypt, Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia.
None of the Groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group utilises inflows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Project in Egypt, and the exploration projects in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Categories of financial assets and liabilities: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Availableforsale assets 409 989 Cash and cash equivalents 125,659 105,979 Trade and other receivables 25,618 25,427 151,686 132,395 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 34,042 78,102 34,042 78,102 132 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information b Financial risk management and objectives The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash flows are sufficient to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The Group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market: commodity: credit: liquidity: foreign exchange: and interest rate.
These risks are managed under Board approved directives through the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, Group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
c Market risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Revenue is received in United States dollars.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the Groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pound, Australian dollar and Egyptian pound are as follows: Great British pound Australian dollar Egyptian pound 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 127 535 7,405 17,430 1,246 898 Availableforsale assets 390 580 19 409 517 1,115 7,424 17,839 1,246 898 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,492 549 18 4,923 3,339 35,980 1,492 549 18 4,923 3,339 35,980 Net exposure 975 566 7,406 12,916 2,093 35,082 The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British and Egyptian pounds and Australian dollar to the United States dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GBP increase by 10% 4 1 35 53 US$ GBP decrease by 10% 4 1 35 53 US$ A$ increase by 10% 583 1,144 2 29 US$ A$ decrease by 10% 583 1,144 2 29 US$ EGP increase by 10% 102 3,003 US$ EGP decrease by 10% 102 3,003 The Groups sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased at the end of the current period mainly due to the decrease in foreign currency cash holdings in Australian dollars and a corresponding increase in US dollar cash holdings.
The Group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
d Commodity price risk The Groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, in particular gold prices.
The Group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 133 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 26.
Financial instruments continued e Interest rate risk The Groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and shortterm deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the shortterm nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the Groups exposure to interest rate risk as at balance date were as follows: Weighted average One to More than effective Less than twelve twelve interest rate one month months months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2014 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.23 26,863 98,770 125,633 Noninterest bearing 25,325 23,750 49,075 52,188 98,770 23,750 174,708 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 34,042 34,042 34,042 34,042 31 December 2013 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.49 6,228 99,086 105,314 Noninterest bearing 27,081 18,950 46,031 33,309 99,086 18,950 151,345 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 78,102 78,102 78,102 78,102 f Liquidity risk The Groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility or liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, who has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the Groups funding requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow.
The tables above reflect a balanced view of cash inflows and outflows and shows the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the financing of assets used in the Groups ongoing operations.
These assets are considered in the Groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the Group liquidity position including cash flow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
134 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information One to More than Less than twelve twelve one month months months Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2014 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 26,863 98,770 125,633 Noninterest bearing 25,325 23,750 49,075 52,188 98,770 23,750 174,708 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 34,042 34,042 34,042 34,042 31 December 2013 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 6,228 99,086 105,314 Noninterest bearing 27,081 18,950 46,031 33,309 99,086 18,950 151,345 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 78,102 78,102 78,102 78,102 g Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The Groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, but the Group has good credit checks on customers and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due, nor have they been impaired.
Also, the cash balances held in Australian dollars are held with a financial institution with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
h Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the shortterm maturity thereof.
i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Availableforsale financial assets 409 409 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Availableforsale financial assets 989 989 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 135 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 27.
Sharebased payments Executive Directors Loan Funded Share Plan EDLFSP and Employee Loan Funded Share Plan ELFSP Shares were issued to executive directors under the EDLFSP 2011 and employees under the ELFSP as part of their remuneration package.
Under the terms of the EDLFSP and ELFSP, the Company has provided a limited recourse and interest free loan to certain employees of the Company for the purpose of acquiring the New Shares the Loan.
The purchase of the shares has been funded by the Loan and the shares will not vest until certain performance conditions are met.
In the event the performance conditions are not met, or the shares are forfeited by the participant, the Company can either reacquire the shares or direct the trustee to sell them on, offsetting the proceeds against the outstanding loan amount and waiving the remainder of the Loan.
Subject to performance conditions and timebased hurdles being met, the Loan will be repayable by the relevant employee in full on the earlier of the termination date of the Loan three years from the date of issue or the date on which the shares are disposed of.
No options have been offered under the EDLFSP and ELFSP in 2012, 2013 or 2014.
2011 Employee Option Scheme 2011 EOS Options were issued under the 2011 EOS made in accordance with thresholds set in plans approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on 14 December 2011.
All employees of the Group other than directors are able to participate in the 2011 EOS.
The Committee shall select from time to time from such group the actual participants in the 2011 EOS.
There are no current plans for options to be granted under the 2011 EOS.
The 2011 EOS provides for employees other than directors to receive up to an annual aggregate of options over ordinary shares, with an exercise price calculated by either the volume weighted average closing price of ordinary shares sold on an exchange for the five trading days most recently preceding the day as at which the market value is calculated or if market value is required to be determined in another manner or another amount for the purposes of tax legislation in another jurisdiction, then the value is so determined at the date of issue.
The ability to exercise the options is conditional on the Group achieving its performance hurdles.
For the initial grants to be made under the 2011 EOS it is the current intention that the performance criteria will be the TSR performance criteria as detailed in the 2011 Executive LFSP.
Further details of the performance conditions can be found in the remuneration report.
There are no outstanding awards under this plan and there is no current intention to use the plan.
Under the 2011 EOS the exercise price of the options is denominated in Great British pounds.
All options expire on the earlier of their expiry date or termination of the individuals employment.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP During the year the Company implemented a DBSP which is a longterm share incentive arrangement for senior management but not executive directors and other employees participants.
Under the DBSP, the Board shall, at its absolute discretion, require such eligible participants to defer up to one hundred per cent 100% of their bonus opportunity and such eligible participants shall not be paid their deferred bonus in cash but shall instead be granted a Deferred Bonus Award over such number of shares provided that the eligible participant remains in employment on the date of grant effectively the vesting date.
The award of the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria attached.
They will however be subject to a service period.
136 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information On 4 June 2013, the Group offered to both the beneficiaries of the shares awarded under the ELFSP and to the majority of the beneficiaries of the options granted under the EOS the choice to replace their awards and options with awards under the DBSP.
The Group has accounted for this change as modifications to the sharebased payment plans and will be recognising the incremental fair value granted, measured in accordance with IFRS 2, by this replacement over the vesting period of the new DBSP awards.
Under this offer, each participant has been granted a number of awards under the DBSP equivalent to the number of shares or options held under the ELFSP and EOS respectively.
Such DBSP awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the DBSP and shall ordinarily vest in three equal tranches on the anniversary of the grant date, conditional upon the continued employment with the Group.
All offers made to participants were accepted.
The total sharebased payment charge relating to Centamin plc shares for the year is split as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$000 US$000 2011 EOS 68 74 LFSP 15 596 DBSP 2,440 1,614 2,493 2,284 No LFSP awards or EOS options were granted during the year.
The fair value of sharebased payments awarded under the LFSP and granted under the 2011 EOS were measured by the use of the Black Scholes model where sharebased payments have nonmarket based performance conditions.
Where sharebased payments are subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of a MonteCarlo simulation.
The MonteCarlo simulation has been used to model the Companys share prices against the performance of the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 at the relevant vesting dates.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment and, for certain series, marketbased performance conditions being achieved.
3 The expected volatility of Centamin and each company in the chosen comparator group and the FTSE 250 Index Companies FTSE 250 has been calculated using approximately two years of historical price data.
4 The expected rate of return used in the valuations for Centamin and other UK comparator companies was set to equal the UK government bond rate with a yieldtomaturity that is equivalent to the tenor of the options.
When modelling the share price of Canadian comparator companies, the Canadian government bond rate was used.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 137 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 27.
Sharebased payments continued Deferred share awards granted during the current and prior year: 1 DBSP 2014 DBSP 2013 Grant date 4 June 2014 4 June 2013 Number of instruments 4,360,836 9,075,000 Share price at grant date GBP 0.6285 0.3857 Share price at grant date US$ 1.0526 0.5886 2 Vesting period years 13 13 Expected dividend yield % n a n a 3 Fair value GBP 0.6285 0.3857 2 Fair value US$ 1.0526 0.5886 4 Incremental fair value at grant date weighted average GBP 0.6285 0.3277 4 Incremental fair value at grant date weighted average US$ 1.0526 0.5000 1 Awards granted on 4 June 2014.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
3 The fair value of shares in the DBSP was calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day, no other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value.
4 The incremental fair value of the shares awarded on 4 June 2013 under the DBSP was calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day less the fair value of the sharebased payments awarded under the ELFSP and EOS immediately prior to the grant under the DBSP.
No other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP.
The fair value of the sharebased payments awarded under the LFSP and granted under the 2011 EOS was measured by the use of the Black Scholes model where sharebased payments have nonmarket based performance conditions.
The incremental fair value of the shares awarded on 4 June 2014 under the DBSP were calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the Employee Share Option Plan at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period Granted during the period Expired lapsed during the period Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period Exercisable at the end of the period 138 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The following table reconciles the outstanding share options granted under 2011 Employee Option Scheme, at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period 1,400,000 1.0716 Granted during the period Expired lapsed during the period 600,000 1.1136 Replaced with DBSP awards 300,000 1.1250 Cancelled and to be replaced with DBSP awards 500,000 1.1250 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period Exercisable at the end of the period The following reconciles the outstanding share options granted under the EDLFSP and ELFSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 US$ US$ Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise Number exercise of options price of options price Balance at beginning of the period 1,222,222 2.0758 10,137,222 1.5808 Granted during the period Expired lapsed forfeited during the period 1,222,222 2.0758 167,500 1.5014 Replaced with DBSP awards 8,747,500 1.5228 Exercised during the period Balance at the end of the period 1,222,222 2.0758 Exercisable at the end of the period The following reconciles the outstanding share awards granted under the DBSP at the beginning and end of the reporting period: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number of Number of awards awards Balance at beginning of the period 9,287,500 1,000,000 Granted during the period 4,360,836 9,075,000 Expired lapsed during the period 754,171 787,500 Exercised during the period 3,225,834 Balance at the end of the period 9,668,331 9,287,500 Exercisable at the end of the period 333,333 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 139 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 28.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive or otherwise of the Group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 US$ US$ Shortterm employee benefits 7,567,732 8,079,116 Longterm employee benefits 1,642 1,635 Postemployment benefits 59,285 31,153 Sharebased payments 2,106,223 1,826,452 Total 9,734,882 9,938,356 29.
Related party transactions a Equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 21.
Equity interests in associates and jointly controlled arrangements Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in Note 23. b Key management personnel compensation Details of key management personnel compensation are disclosed above.
c Key management personnel equity holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period are as follows: Balance at Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 2 1 31 December 2014 2014 DBSP of options change 2014 nominally J ElRaghy 71,445,086 71,445,086 T Schultz 1,030,000 1,000,000 30,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 15,000 M Bankes 120,000 30,000 150,000 K Tomlinson 24,400 24,400 P Louw 1,737,500 400,000 2,137,500 A Pardey 1,785,000 400,000 2,185,000 R Osman 600,000 200,000 800,000 H Brown 475,000 75,000 550,000 D Le Masurier 300,000 300,000 L Gregory 300,000 300,000 Y ElRaghy 510,000 170,000 42,586 637,414 T Smith 300,000 300,000 L Sobey 300,000 100,000 10,000 390,000 A Davidson 450,000 450,000 140 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Balance at Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 2 1 31 December 2013 2013 DBSP of options change 2013 nominally J ElRaghy 70,945,086 500,000 71,445,086 T Schultz 1,030,000 1,030,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 15,000 M Bankes 90,000 30,000 120,000 K Tomlinson P Louw 1,737,500 1,200,000 1,200,000 1,737,500 A Pardey 1,785,000 510,000 510,000 1,785,000 R Osman 600,000 600,000 H Brown 475,000 475,000 D Le Masurier L Gregory Y ElRaghy 510,000 510,000 T Smith L Sobey 300,000 300,000 A Davidson 1 Net other change relates to the on market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary share, including the forfeiture of shares awarded under the LFSP and DBSP and the replacement of awards under the ELFSP with shares awarded under the DBSP.
2 Includes shares held under LFSP DBSP.
d Key management personnel share option holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel options to acquire ordinary shares in Centamin plc are as follows: Balance Balance vested vested and Balance at Balance at during the exercisable at 1 January Granted as Other 31 December financial 31 December 31 December 2014 2014 remuneration Exercised changes 2014 period 2014 J ElRaghy T Schultz G Haslam M Arnesen M Bankes K Tomlinson P Louw A Pardey R Osman H Brown D Le Masurier L Gregory Y ElRaghy T Smith L Sobey A Davidson There were no options held, granted or exercised during the year by directors or senior management in respect of ordinary shares in Centamin plc.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 141 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2014 29.
Related party transactions continued d Key management personnel share option holdings continued Balance Balance vested vested and Balance at Balance at during the exercisable at 1 January Granted as Other 31 December financial 31 December 31 December 2013 2013 remuneration Exercised changes 2013 period 2013 J ElRaghy T Schultz G Haslam M Arnesen M Bankes K Tomlinson P Louw A Pardey R Osman H Brown D Le Masurier L Gregory Y ElRaghy T Smith L Sobey A Davidson 500,000 500,000 Apart from the details disclosed in this note, no key management personnel has entered into a material contract with the Company or the economic entity since the end of the previous financial year and there were no material contracts involving key management personnel interests at year end.
e Other transactions with key management personnel The related party transactions for the year ended 31 December 2014 are summarised below: Josef ElRaghy is a director and shareholder of ElRaghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd ElRaghy Kriewaldt.
ElRaghy Kriewaldt provides office premises to the Company.
All dealings with ElRaghy Kriewaldt are in the ordinary course of business and on normal terms and conditions.
Rent and office outgoings paid to ElRaghy Kriewaldt during the period were A$57,898 or US$51,920 31 December 2013: A$48,278 or US$45,600.
f Transactions with the government of Egypt Royalty costs attributable to the government of Egypt of US$14,143,710 2013: US$15,074,098 were incurred in 2014.
With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, PGM has made advance payments to EMRA of US$4,800,000 2013: US$18,950,000 which will be netted off against any future profit share that becomes payable to EMRA.
g During the year two generators were donated to Marsa Alam.
These generators had a carrying value of US$1,093,129.
h Transactions with other related parties Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
During the financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the Group.
142 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 30.
Dividends per share The dividends paid in 2014 were US$9,923,308 0.87 US cents per share 2013: nil.
A dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 1.99 US cents per share, totalling circa US$23 million has been approved by the Board of Directors and is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 18 May 2015.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Subsequent events As referred to in Note 13, In February 2015 the Company gave formal notice to Alecto Minerals plc the AIM quoted mineral exploration company terminating the joint venture agreement entered into between the company and Centamin in September 2013 with regards to the development of Alectos licences in Ethiopia.
As referred to in Note 20, subsequent to the year end the Group is involved in ongoing litigation in respect of both the price at which 2 diesel fuel oil is supplied to the mine at Sukari and the validity of the 160km exploitation lease.
As referred to in Note 30, subsequent to the year end the Board of Directors announced the approval of a final dividend for 2014 of 1.99 US cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 18 May 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register as of 24 April 2015.
There were no other significant events occurring after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
