14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Our operations cover all elements of the energy value chain, from sourcing to supplying and saving it.
We participate in international energy markets with customers across the UK, North America and the Republic of Ireland.
SOURCE IT GENERATE IT PROCESS IT STORE IT We invest in gas and oil We generate power through our Our onshore gas terminals Our gas storage facility at Rough exploration and production in the wind farms, nuclear and gas-fired ensure high quality gas enters is the largest of its kind in the UK.
Atlantic basin, particularly in the power stations.
All of us rely on the gas flowing Gas provides around one-third to heat our homes and businesses of the UKs primary energy, but and a steady supply of electricity import dependency has increased to keep the lights on in our rapidly over the past decade.
In schools, hospitals and factories.
2014 around 50% was imported by pipeline from the continent or by ship in liquefied form, primarily from Qatar.
Central role for global gas Progress in UK power Gas currently plays a major role in the global energy mix, fuelling In the UK the results of the first energy capacity market auction power generation, powering industry and heating homes.
In both have provided some clarity about the future of the market, however gas and oil, oversupply has seen prices fall dramatically in the latter significant uncertainty remains about the affordability and incentives half of 2014, reducing profitability for the oil and gas industry in the for future generation.
In the near term the capacity the UK has to short term and leading many companies to cut back expenditure meet peak demand is likely to be tight and the returns from gas-fired on new projects.
Whilst this low price environment could persist generation appear to be very low.
The costs of a transition to low for some time, long-term scenarios continue to show gas having carbon generation are forecast to be high and the capital and a central role as energy markets evolve and move towards a low subsidies required to construct some renewables technologies carbon system.
Recent warm weather in the UK has led to high and nuclear continue to go up: we await further clarification after levels of gas in storage but in the long term the UK is becoming the UK electoral process in 2015. increasingly dependent on imports as North Sea reserves decline.
In the US, shale gas production continues to grow and is driving the push to increase LNG export capacity with more projects being developed to bring US gas to Europe and Asia.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our integrated business model, together with our distinctive portfolio of assets and capabilities, gives us opportunities throughout the energy value chain.
Read more overleaf TRADE IT SUPPLY IT SERVICE IT SAVE IT In the UK and North America, We supply energy to homes We provide peace of mind We offer innovative low carbon, we trade gas and power to ensure and businesses in the UK, with central heating, boiler energy efficient products and our customers have a reliable North America and the and cooling maintenance and services to help our customers and competitive energy supply.
Affordability remains a key topic for consumers and businesses, and will likely be a key focus for politicians throughout the UK electoral process.
In 2014, average UK domestic gas prices were the second lowest in the EU-15.
Focus on affordability, competition and trust Difficult market conditions in North America Affordability remains a key concern for both residential and business The weather seen in the US North East in the first quarter of 2014 customers in the UK, with the recent decline in gas prices allowing was some of the most extreme in recent years.
This caused significant tariff decreases that make energy more affordable.
The overall issues in the gas markets in North America, placing extreme demands affordability debate continues to be the focus of political parties as we on infrastructure and driving high levels of price volatility.
These issues near the 2015 UK general election, with Labours price freeze promise led to some repricing of risk in the market and the extremely high price a part of the discussion.
The ongoing Competition and Markets spikes borne by some consumers on variable tariffs have led to Authority investigation of the energy sector provides a welcome greater regulatory scrutiny and some market restructuring.
Despite opportunity for all stakeholders to engage and help rebuild trust and this volatility, average gas prices in North America remained low, restore market confidence for consumers.
Against this backdrop, helping to keep the costs of energy affordable for most customers.
the UK supply market has been particularly competitive with small The combination of the trajectory of prices and the regulatory market suppliers growing at unprecedented rates and customers continuing structures in the US North East continues to make North American to value bill transparency and the ability to manage their energy use.
markets particularly competitive with challenges for independent retailers competing with incumbent utilities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
