176 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees Introduction We have audited the accompanying statement the Consolidated Segmental Statement or CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees as listed in i footnote as at 31 December 2014 in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated 12 January 2015.
The CSS has been prepared by the The Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS and required regulatory information on pages 177 to 186 are provided in order to comply Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees based on the requirements of Ofgems Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences.
and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity Generation Licences together, the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 181 to 184.
Directors responsibility The CSS and supporting information are prepared by the Directors in accordance with the Segmental Statements Guidelines issued by Ofgem.
The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the CSS in accordance with the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 181 to 184 The CSS has been derived from and reconciled to the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 which have and for maintaining the underlying accounting records and such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU and therefore comply with of the CSS that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
Centrica plc operational reporting structure Auditors responsibility Below is a summary of the Centrica plc Groups Group operational reporting structure.
The CSS financial data has been extracted from Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the CSS based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 operating segments rather than with reference to specific legal entities.
Certain activities included on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance in the Groups operating segments have been excluded from the Generation and Supply segments of the CSS on the basis they are non-licensed about whether the CSS is free from material misstatement.
The materiality level that we used in planning and performing our audit is set at 30 million activities eg Midstream Power and Business Services as illustrated below.
However, to aid transparency, the Midstream Power result has been for each of the segments.
voluntarily included in the CSS.
The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 provides operating segment results for British Gas Residential An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the CSS.
The procedures selected depend energy supply, British Gas Business energy supply and services and Centrica Energy Power in note 4.
A full reconciliation between these on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the CSS, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those results and those disclosed for Domestic Supply, Non-Domestic Supply and Generation in this CSS is provided at the end of the report.
risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity's preparation of the CSS in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the CSS.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the attached CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees for the year ended 31 December 2014 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with: i the requirements of Ofgems Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity Generation Licences established by the Regulator Ofgem: and ii the basis of preparation on pages 181 to 184.
Basis of accounting and restriction on distribution Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to pages 181 to 184 of the CSS, which describes the basis of preparation.
The CSS is prepared in order for Centrica plc and its Licensees to meet the Licence requirements of the Regulator Ofgem rather than in accordance with a generally accepted accounting framework.
The CSS should therefore be read in conjunction with both the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 181 to 184.
This basis of preparation is not the same as segmental reporting under IFRS and or statutory reporting.
As a result, the schedule may not be suitable for another purpose.
This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with the agreement Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees.
The individual supply and generation licences are held in legal entities between us, to assist the Directors in reporting on the CSS to the Regulator Ofgem.
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Financial Statements ii whose licensed activities are reported as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 within the operating segments shown above.
section of the Annual Report and Accounts of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the website www.
com prelims14, The individual supply and generation licences held in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates of Centrica plc during 2014 are detailed below: to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the CSS.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body Licensee Licence Ownership and Centrica plc and its Licensees for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
British Gas Trading Limited Supply 100% Centrica Langage Limited Generation 100% Centrica SHB Limited Generation 100% Centrica Brigg Limited Generation 100% Centrica Barry Limited Generation 100% Centrica KPS Limited Generation 100%  LLP London Centrica RPS Limited Generation 100% Centrica PB Limited Generation 100% 19 February 2015 Centrica KL Limited Generation 100% Lincs Wind Farm Limited Generation 50% Joint venture i British Gas Trading Limited, Centrica Langage Limited, Centrica SHB Limited, Centrica Brigg Limited, Centrica Barry Limited, Centrica KPS Limited, Centrica RPS Limited, Centrica PB Limited and Centrica KL Limited.
iv i Barrow Offshore Wind Limited Exemption 50% Joint venture ii The maintenance and integrity of the Centrica plc website is the responsibility of the Directors of Centrica plc: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters ii Glens of Foudland Wind Farm Limited Not required 50% Joint venture and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the CSS since it was initially presented on the website.
i Lynn Wind Farm Limited Exemption 50% Joint venture i Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited Exemption 50% Joint venture v Rhiannon Wind Farm Limited Generation 50% Joint venture iii EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited Generation 20% Associate i Certain wind farms have received an exemption from the requirement to have a generation licence.
ii The capacity of Glens of Foudland is 26MW and therefore does not require a generation licence or an exemption from having a generation licence.
iii The Centrica plc Group holds a 20% investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited which indirectly owns 100% of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited.
iv Barrow Offshore Wind Limited was disposed of on 19 December 2014. v The Rhiannon wind farm known as Celtic Array licence was relinquished on 31 July 2014 because planned development was deemed uneconomic.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41881 Centrica AR2014 p92-186 Accounts.
indd 176 27 02 2015 16:44 177 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees Introduction We have audited the accompanying statement the Consolidated Segmental Statement or CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees as listed in i footnote as at 31 December 2014 in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated 12 January 2015.
An audit also Centrica plc includes evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the CSS.
British Gas Bord Gis Energy Centrica Energy Centrica Storage Direct Energy Opinion Segments In our opinion, the attached CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees for the year ended 31 December 2014 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with: Residential Business Energy Operating Residential Services Power Gas Energy Supply Supply and Services i the requirements of Ofgems Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity segments Generation Licences established by the Regulator Ofgem: and ii the basis of preparation on pages 181 to 184.
Activities Domestic Supply Non-Domestic Supply Generation included in CSS Basis of accounting and restriction on distribution Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to pages 181 to 184 of the CSS, which describes the basis of preparation.
The CSS is prepared Activities voluntarily in order for Centrica plc and its Licensees to meet the Licence requirements of the Regulator Ofgem rather than in accordance with a generally Midstream Power included in CSS accepted accounting framework.
Activities excluded Business Services from CSS This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with the agreement Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees.
indd 177 27 02 2015 16:44 178 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Ofgem consolidated segmental statement Ofgem consolidated segmental statement Glossary of terms Year ended 31 December 2014 WACOF E G is weighted average cost of fuel nuclear, electricity supply and gas thermal and supply calculated by dividing direct fuel costs Electricity Generation Electricity Supply Gas Supply by volumes.
For the Thermal sub-segment the cost of carbon emissions is added to direct fuel costs before dividing by the generated volume.
Aggregate Aggregate Generation NonNonSupply Midstream EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs from revenue.
Unit Nuclear i Thermal i Renewables Business Domestic Domestic Domestic Domestic Business Power ii DA is depreciation and amortisation.
Total revenue 575.1 599.2 144.9 1,319.2 3,296.3 1,963.6 5,031.2 765.9 11,057.0 105.6 m EBIT is earnings before interest and tax, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs, depreciation and amortisation from total revenue.
Sales of electricity Supply EBIT margin is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing EBIT by total revenue and multiplying by 100 for & gas 570.4 587.7 53.0 1,211.1 3,260.7 1,955.3 4,986.1 765.9 10,968.0 59.9 m the Supply segment.
Other revenue 4.7 11.5 91.9 108.1 35.6 8.3 45.1 89.0 45.7 m Supply PAT is profit after tax but before interest and is calculated by subtracting Group adjusted tax from EBIT for the Supply segment.
Total operating Supply PAT margin is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing Supply PAT by total revenue and multiplying costs 306.4 663.9 96.7 1,067.0 3,219.0 1,902.6 4,596.0 694.0 10,411.6 73.8 m by 100 for the Supply segment.
Direct fuel costs 76.1 456.6 532.7 1,390.5 954.6 2,443.8 441.4 5,230.3 m Volume for Supply is supplier volumes at the meter point ie net of losses : Generation volume is the volume of power that can actually be sold Direct costs m 212.1 150.3 31.7 394.1 1,371.5 747.4 1,452.6 152.5 3,724.0 58.1 in the wholesale market ie generation volumes after losses up to the point where power is received under the Balancing and Settlement Code Network costs m 34.7 39.3 4.9 78.9 870.7 471.7 1,147.5 136.5 2,626.4 but before subsequent losses.
ii Midstream Power includes results from non-licensed activities related to power trading and bilateral arrangements with third party owners of power generation assets in the UK and Europe included in the Centrica Energy Power segment as defined in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 note 4. iii 2013 revenues for Domestic Electricity Supply and Domestic Gas Supply have been restated from 3,497 million to 3,454 million and from 6,091 million to 6,033 million respectively.
These restatements are to deduct government mandated social tariffs and discounts, and other social discounts previously shown within direct costs, and have been made to be consistent with the new Ofgem presentation requirements for 2014.
Consequential restatements of margin % have also been made.
indd 178 27 02 2015 16:44 179 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Ofgem consolidated segmental statement Ofgem consolidated segmental statement Glossary of terms Year ended 31 December 2014 WACOF E G is weighted average cost of fuel nuclear, electricity supply and gas thermal and supply calculated by dividing direct fuel costs Electricity Generation Electricity Supply Gas Supply by volumes.
indd 179 27 02 2015 16:44 180 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Business functions table Basis of preparation i Year ended 31 December 2014 analysis of business functions performance The following notes provide a summary of the basis of preparation of the 2014 submission.
The table below illustrates where the business functions reside.
The Ofgem CSS segments our Supply and Generation activities and provides a measure of profitability, weighted average cost of fuel, and volumes, in order to increase energy market transparency for consumers and other stakeholders.
Generation Supply Another part of business Operates and maintains generation assets These statements have been prepared by the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Responsible for scheduling decisions Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences and the basis of preparation.
Throughout the basis Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market of preparation the first paragraph number relates to the generation licence and the second to the supply licence conditions respectively.
Responsible for determining hedging policy output demand The financial data provided has been taken from the relevant licensees and affiliates financial information for the year ended 31 December 2014, Responsible for implementing hedging policy makes decision to buy and sell energy output demand included in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 which has been prepared under IFRS in accordance with paragraph 3 19A.
Interacts with wider market participants to buy sell energy bilateral market and market and ii For the Generation segment, we have included the financial results from all activities that relate to our generation licences.
For clarity the following bilateral bilateral ii judgements have been made: Holds unhedged positions either short or long Procures fuel for generation Where a sub-segment eg Nuclear, Thermal or Renewables has undertaken trades to optimise the result of their underlying generation, the net revenue and result from these trades has been included in the CSS sub-segment as they are considered to be related to our generation licences.
Procures allowances for generation Holds volume risk on positions sold either internal or external The Group has a long-term tolling contract in respect of the Spalding power station, but does not specifically hold the generation licence.
iii ii iii Matches own generation with own supply This arrangement provides the Group with the right to nominate 100% of the plant capacity in return for a mix of capacity payments and operating payments.
We do not own the power station and the Group does not control the physical dispatch of the asset.
This contractual arrangement Forecasts total system demand iv iv iv has been accounted for as a finance lease under IFRS and therefore the financial result and volume has been included in the Thermal Forecasts wholesale price sub-segment, within the Generation segment.
Forecasts customer demand The Group has a 20% equity interest in eight nuclear power stations through its indirect investment in EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited.
Determines retail pricing and marketing strategies Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any of the nuclear stations, our gross share of the financial result from this business Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge including any contractual arrangements has been included in the Nuclear sub-segment and hence within the Generation segment.
Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast i The table reflects the business functions that impact our UK segments.
The Group has equity interests in a number of wind farm joint ventures.
Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any of the wind ii The Groups Supply and Generation businesses are separately managed.
Both businesses independently enter into commodity purchases and sales with the market via Centrica Energy Limited farms owned by these entities, our gross share of the financial result from these businesses including any contractual arrangements has been CEL, our market-facing legal entity.
CEL forms part of our non-licensed Midstream Power function and also conducts trading for the purpose of making profits in its own right.
The Supply included in the Renewables sub-segment and hence within the Generation segment.
segment is also able to enter into market trades directly as part of its within day balancing activities as well as external bilateral contracts.
iii There are a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments.
Other than this small number of bilateral As a voluntary disclosure, to aid transparency, the Midstream Power trading result including immaterial overseas activities has been reported contracts, Matches own generation with own supply is undertaken in Another part of the business by CEL at market referenced prices, outside of the Generation and Supply segments.
in a separate column of the CSS Midstream Power.
The Midstream Power result includes trading in physical and financial energy contracts iv A separate team forecasts the wholesale price for the benefit and use of the entire Group.
This team does not formally reside in any particular segment but their costs are recharged across the Group.
for the purpose of making profits in their own right and other non-licensed activities see below.
This does not form part of either the Generation or Supply segment.
This means our CSS discloses all of the activities that have been included in the Centrica Energy Power segment Key: of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 note 4.
Function resides and profit loss recorded in segment.
Where power is purchased from third parties eg from wind farms, power stations or other bilateral arrangements and we do not have an equity Neither function nor profit loss reside in segment.
interest in, or a finance leasing arrangement from an IFRS perspective over the assets that generate this power, the result related to these activities is excluded from the Generation segment but is included in our Midstream Power disclosure.
In all cases, the Generation segment reports direct Glossary of terms fuel costs and generation volumes on a consistent basis ie if the purchase cost is a direct fuel cost, then the electricity generated is reported Scheduling decisions means the decision to run individual generation units.
Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market means interactions with the Balancing Mechanism in electricity.
Domestic Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK.
Non-Domestic Interacts with wider market participants to buy sell energy means the business unit is responsible for interacting with wider market participants Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to business customers in the UK.
to buy sell energy, not the entity responsible for the buy sell decision itself, which falls under Responsible for implementing hedging policy makes decisions to buy sell energy.
As a voluntary disclosure, to aid comparability, a summarised 2013 CSS with margins has been included within the report.
Matches own generation with own supply means where there is some internal matching of generation and supply before either generation Revenues or supply interact with the wider market.
Revenues, costs and profits of the Licensees have been defined below and prepared in compliance with the Groups accounting policies as detailed Forecasts total system demand means forecasting total system electricity demand or total system gas demand.
in notes 2, 3 and S2 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014, except for joint ventures and associates which are presented gross in accordance with paragraph 4 a 19A.
Forecasts customer demand means forecasting the total demand of own supply customers.
Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with hedges Revenue from sales of electricity and gas for the Supply segment is recognised on the basis of gas and electricity supplied during the period to both made before the market allows fully shaped hedging.
Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with too little Revenue from sales of electricity and gas includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and or too much supply for own customer demand.
For the respective Supply segments this means electricity and gas sales.
Revenue for domestic supply is after deducting dual fuel discounts where applicable, with the discount split evenly between electricity and gas.
Government mandated social tariffs and discounts, such as the Warm Home Discount, and other social discounts, have also been deducted from Domestic Supply revenues directly, charged specifically to each fuel.
Revenue from sales of electricity for the Generation segment is recognised on the basis of power supplied during the period.
Power purchases and sales entered into to optimise the performance of each of the power Generation segments are presented net within revenue.
LEC revenues associated with Renewables are included within sales of electricity and gas because the certificates must be sold with the electricity.
Revenue from sales of electricity and gas in Midstream Power relate to the sale of power procured under non-licensed activities power purchasing agreements PPAs and from overseas generation.
No tolling agreements exist between business segments.
The financial risks and rewards of owning and using the Groups power stations reside in the Generation segment.
indd 180 27 02 2015 16:44 181 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Business functions table Basis of preparation i Year ended 31 December 2014 analysis of business functions performance The following notes provide a summary of the basis of preparation of the 2014 submission.
indd 181 27 02 2015 16:44 182 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Basis of preparation Basis of preparation Other respective segmental revenues not related to the sale of gas or power have been separately disclosed.
Other revenues include: Direct costs Direct costs for Supply and Generation are broken down into network costs, environmental and social obligation costs and other direct costs.
91.9 million 2013: 106 million in Renewables principally relating to the sale of ROCs and services provided to joint ventures.
Other revenues in 2013 included revenue from sub-leasing a turbine installation ship: Network costs for Supply and Generation include transportation costs, BSUOS and the transport element of RBD costs.
Supply transportation 8.3 million in Non-Domestic Electricity Supply relating to connections and metering installations 2013: 10 million : costs include transportation and LNG costs, including 46.1 million incurred by Gas Domestic Supply for the first time in 2014, which enables the segment to secure supply by giving the ability to bring gas into the UK from overseas.
35.6 million 2013: 39 million in Domestic Electricity Supply and 45.1 million 2013: 39 million in Domestic Gas Supply primarily relating to New Housing Connections and a variety of new technology investments including smart meter installations: and Environmental and social obligation costs for Domestic Supply include ROCs, FIT and ECO.
Non-Domestic Supply includes the cost of LECs, ROCs and FIT.
Within the Domestic and Non-Domestic segments, the costs of LECs, FIT and ROCs are included within Electricity, and ECO 45.7 million in Midstream Power predominantly relating to the net result of trading in physical and financial energy contracts both realised is allocated between Electricity and Gas based on the relevant legislation.
Environmental and social obligation costs for the Generation segment settled and unrealised fair valued for the purpose of making profits in their own right, net of broker costs 2013: 40 million.
relate to EU ETS carbon emission costs and carbon tax.
Direct fuel costs Other direct costs for Generation include employee and maintenance costs.
Direct fuel costs for both Generation and Supply include electricity, gas, nuclear fuel and imbalance costs.
Other direct costs for Supply include brokers costs and sales commissions when the costs have given rise directly to revenue, ie producing a sale.
Energy supply to Domestic and Non-Domestic energy customers is procured at a market referenced price, through a combination of bilateral, They also include Elexon and Xoserve market participation and wider Smart metering programme costs.
OTC and exchange based trades contracts see table below.
Where energy is procured from within the Group it is also at a market referenced i price on an OTC basis except for a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures and the Supply segments.
Other direct costs for Midstream Power principally relate to the costs of purchasing power under other non-licensed activities PPAs and from The market referenced prices used are those prevailing at the time of procurement, which may differ from the price prevailing at the time of supply.
procuring gas for overseas generation.
Domestic and Non-Domestic fixed price products are hedged based upon anticipated demand at the start of the contract period.
The majority Indirect costs of the gas and power for Non-Domestic energy and Domestic energy tariff products is purchased in advance see table below.
Indirect costs for Supply and Generation include operating costs such as sales and marketing, bad debt costs, costs to serve, IT, HR, finance, The exact Domestic and Non-Domestic purchasing patterns vary in response to the outlook for commodity markets and commercial factors.
property, staffing and billing and metering costs including smart meter costs.
The Generation segment purchases gas and sells all of its energy at market referenced prices.
Gas for CCGTs is procured at market referenced Indirect costs for the Generation, Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply segments including corporate and business unit recharges are allocated prices through a combination of OTC and exchange based trades contracts.
The cost to the power stations will reflect market referenced prices based on relevant drivers which include turnover, headcount, operating profit, net book value of fixed assets and proportionate use benefit.
at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.
For Supply, indirect costs including corporate recharges but excluding bad debt costs are primarily allocated between Electricity and Gas For the Midstream Power segment, any procurement of gas for overseas generation is reported as part of direct costs and not within direct fuel on the basis of customer numbers Domestic and sites Non-Domestic.
Bad debt costs are allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis costs.
of actual bad debt cost by individual contract in the billing system Domestic, and on the basis of revenues Non-Domestic.
Indirect costs for Midstream Power relate to employee, IT and property costs.
How we procure electricity, gas and carbon: Other Long form bilateral Individually negotiated contracts with non-standardised terms and conditions which may relate to size, duration For Supply, depreciation and amortisation is allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of customer numbers Domestic and sites contracts bilateral or flexibility.
Pricing is predominantly indexed to published market referenced prices, adjusted for transfer of risks, Non-Domestic.
cost of carry and administration.
As the Langage, Humber and Killingholme power stations were reported as assets held for sale for the period 8 May 2014 to 31 December 2014, Over-the-counter Broker supported market of standardised products, predominantly performed via screen-based trading.
no depreciation has been charged on these stations during this period.
Generation EBIT would have been reduced by 39.0 million had OTC These transactions are between two parties, leaving both parties exposed to the others default with no necessary depreciation been charged.
An internal OTC price may be provided where market liquidity prevents external trading, with prices that are reflective of market conditions at the time of execution.
Generation segment EBIT excludes 58.0 million 2013: 61 million of depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment relating Exchange Regulated electronic platform notably ICE, APX, and N2EX where standardised products are traded on exchange to the Strategic Investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited referred to as Nuclear in this document.
For further details of this adjustment see notes through the intermediary of the clearing house which becomes the counterparty to the trade.
Membership 2, 4, 6 and 10 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014. of a clearing house is required which entails posting of cash or collateral as margin.
For the purposes of Supply PAT, tax is allocated between Gas and Electricity within both Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on their relative proportions of EBIT.
Note 4 c of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 provides details of the adjusted operating profit after tax of the British Gas Residential energy supply and British Gas Business energy supply and services operating segments.
WACOF WACOE WACOG: For Generation this represents the weighted average input cost of gas, carbon and nuclear fuel, shown as MWh, used by the Generation For the Domestic Supply segment, customer numbers are stated based on the number of district meter point reference numbers MPRNs business.
Gas for CCGTs is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of OTC and exchange-based trades contracts.
and meter point administration numbers MPANs in our billing system for gas and electricity respectively, where it shows an active point of delivery The cost to the power stations will reflect market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing and a meter installation.
As a result, our customer numbers do not include those meter points where a meter may recently have been installed at the time of physical supply.
but the associated industry registration process has yet to complete, as the meter information will not be present in our billing system.
For Supply this covers the wholesale energy cost, the energy element of  RBD costs and balancing and shaping costs For the Non-Domestic Supply segment, sites are based on the number of distinct MPRNs and MPANs in our billing system for gas and electricity incurred by the Supply licensees.
Again, gas and electricity is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of bilateral, OTC and respectively.
The cost for the Supply business will reflect market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.
Where gas is procured using predominantly indexed bilateral contracts, the fuel cost Transfer pricing for electricity, gas and generation licensees in accordance with paragraph 4 d 19A.
4 d i is then allocated between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply using annually updated fixed-percentages based on the historical split of tariff book There are no specific energy supply agreements between the Generation and Supply segments apart from a small number of bilateral off-take volumes.
Gas and Electricity balancing costs are allocated between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on their respective volumes contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments.
multiplied by an appropriate industry referenced price eg APX or SAP.
In December 2014 Ofgem finalised its proposed licence amendments, which included the requirement to ensure transfer pricing methodologies are For electricity Supply the weighted average cost of electricity is shown as MWh.
For gas Supply, the weighted average cost of gas is shown appropriate and up to date.
In order to meet this requirement, the Group ensured all transfer pricing and cost allocation methodologies were internally as p th.
reviewed and collated in a central repository.
In addition, Internal Audit performed a limited procedures review of the documentation to give comfort over compliance with the Ofgem guidelines.
i Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply.
i Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable obligation certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply.
Pricing is indexed to published market prices, adjusted for the transfer of risks specific to the asset.
Pricing is indexed to published markets prices, adjusted for the transfer of risks specific to the asset.
indd 182 27 02 2015 16:44 183 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Basis of preparation Basis of preparation Other respective segmental revenues not related to the sale of gas or power have been separately disclosed.
indd 183 27 02 2015 16:44 184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Basis of preparation Reconciliation to Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts Treatment of joint ventures and associates The reconciliation refers to the segmental analysis of the 2014 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts The share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2014 principally arises from the Groups interests in the entities in note 4 listed on page 177.
Supply segment Domestic Non-Domestic Under paragraph 5 of the Conditions, the information provided in the CSS includes our gross share of revenues, costs, profits and volumes of joint Generation segment Electricity Gas Electricity Gas ventures and associates.
In preparing the CSS, joint ventures and associates which hold a UK generation licence or exemption are accounted for Notes 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 as follows: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts our proportionate share of revenues of joint ventures and associates has been included within revenue: i Segmental Analysis 1,347.1 8,327.5 2,981.4 our proportionate share of the profit before tax of joint ventures and associates has been included within EBIT and EBITDA: and Gas and Electricity allocation 3,296.3 5.031.2 2,215.5 765.9 1 our proportionate share of the generation volumes of joint ventures and associates has been included within the generation volumes.
Include share of JVs and associates 716.0 2 For each of the above items, our share of the income and expenses of the joint ventures or associates has been combined line-by-line within Exclude intra-segment revenues 638.3 3 the relevant item of the CSS.
Exclude midstream revenues 105.6 4 The Supply segment has investments in associates but because the investees businesses do not relate to the sale of gas and electricity, the share Exclude non-domestic services revenues 5 251.9 of result revenue of 6 million 2013: 8 million, EBIT loss of 1 million 2013: 7 million has been included net within indirect costs rather than gross, Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 1,319.2 3,296.3 5,031.2 1,963.6 765.9 on a line-by-line basis.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements Mark-to-market adjustments, profits or losses on disposal and impairment charges that have been identified in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts Accounts 2014 are excluded from the CSS.
For further details of excluded exceptional items and certain re-measurements see note 7 in the Centrica i Segmental Analysis 130.6 438.9 113.8 1 plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Gas and Electricity allocation 45.2 393.7 45.2 68.6 In 2014 the Renewables sub-segment result included a net 16.6 million loss: being a 40.1 million write-off of the Groups investment in Celtic Array Exclude midstream EBIT 30.8 4 Limited offset by a 23.5 million profit on disposal of Barrow Offshore Wind Farm Limited.
For further details of the disposal see note 12 c. This result Exclude non-domestic services loss 9.4 5 has been included in the Generation segment as it is not exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and does not materially change the Generation result.
Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 99.8 45.2 393.7 54.6 68.6 This treatment is consistent with the Groups established wind farm strategy to realise value, share risk and reduce our capital requirements as individual projects develop, which may involve bringing in partners at an appropriate stage or full disposal.
The Nuclear sub-segment result includes a 20.8 million profit from the revaluation of contingent valuation rights, related to the original acquisition of the Nuclear investment.
This result has been included in the Generation segment as it is not exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and does not Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i materially change the Generation result.
Segmental Analysis 1 56.6 73.6 10.2 Gas and Electricity allocation 32.1 41.5 6.9 3.3 The Supply segment includes a number of impairment losses totalling 2.4 million 2013: 18 million.
These losses have been included in the Supply results as they are not exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and do not materially change the result.
Include share of JVs and associates depreciation 96.8 6 Exclude midstream depreciation 1.0 A reconciliation of the Segmental Statement revenue, EBIT, depreciation and Supply PAT to the 2014 audited Centrica plc Annual Report and 4 Accounts has been included in accordance with paragraph 4 b & c 19A.
Exclude non-domestic services depreciation 0.5 5 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 152.4 32.1 41.5 6.4 3.3 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i Segmental Analysis 343.6 90.9 1 Gas and Electricity allocation 35.4 308.2 35.3 55.6 Exclude non-domestic services loss 8.9 5 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 35.4 308.2 44.2 55.6 i The table above reconciles the Generation segment to Centrica Energy Power, the Domestic Supply segment to British Gas Residential energy supply and the Non-Domestic Supply segment to British Gas Business energy supply and services in note 4 to the 2014 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts.
Also included in note 4 is a reconciliation to the IFRS compliant statutory result reported by the Centrica plc Group.
indd 184 27 02 2015 16:44 PAT m Depreciation m EBIT m Revenue m 185 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Basis of preparation Reconciliation to Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts Treatment of joint ventures and associates The reconciliation refers to the segmental analysis of the 2014 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts The share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2014 principally arises from the Groups interests in the entities in note 4 listed on page 177.
indd 185 27 02 2015 16:44 PAT m Depreciation m EBIT m Revenue m 186 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Reconciliation to Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts Notes: 1.
The share of Domestic and Non-Domestic Revenues, Operating Profit EBIT, Depreciation including amortisation and PAT adjusted operating profit after tax is provided in note 4 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
716.0 million of revenues relating to the Groups share of joint ventures and associates in Generation are included in the CSS 619.8 million relating to Nuclear revenues and 96.2 million relating to Wind revenues.
253.8 million of EBIT in the Generation segment relates to profit from joint ventures 261.6 million profit relating to Nuclear and 7.8 million loss relating to Wind.
Additionally, costs relating to the Groups share of joint ventures and associates 76.1 million direct fuel costs, 233.2 million direct costs, 56.1 million indirect costs and 96.8 million depreciation and amortisation are included.
The results of joint ventures and associates are shown separately in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 in notes 6 and 14.
638.3 million of intra-segment revenues between the joint ventures and associates and the Generation segment included in the 716.0 million of joint venture and associate revenues are excluded from the CSS.
105.6 million of revenues, 30.8million of operating profit and 1.0 million of depreciation relating to Centricas Midstream Power non-licensed activities Midstream Power are excluded from the Generation segment of the CSS but have been voluntarily disclosed as Midstream Power.
251.9 million of revenues, 9.4 million of operating loss, 0.5 million of depreciation and 8.9 million of operating loss after tax relate to Non-Domestic services and are excluded from the CSS.
96.8 million of depreciation relating to the Groups share of joint venture and associates in Generation is included in depreciation cost in the CSS.
58.0 million of depreciation relating to the fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment relating to the Strategic Investment in Nuclear is excluded from this number.
The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 provides further information on our joint ventures and associates in notes 6 and 14.
