187 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information MANAGING YOUR SHARES Manage your shares Manage your shares online Centricas share register is administered and maintained by our We actively encourage our shareholders to receive communications Registrar, Equiniti, who you can contact directly if you have any via email and view documents electronically via our website.
For more general enquires, there If you sign up for electronic communications, you will receive an email is information available in the Shareholder Centre on our website, to notify you that new shareholder documents are available to view which includes frequently asked questions and forms that are online, including the Annual Report and Annual Review on the day available to download to: they are published.
You will also receive alerts to let you know that you register for electronic communications: can view your electronic tax voucher and cast your AGM vote online.
transfer your shares: You can also manage your shareholding online by registering change your registered name or address: for Shareview shareview.
co. uk, a free, secure online site where you can access your information and complete a number of register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: functions including: consolidate your share certificates: viewing information about your shareholding or dividend manage your dividend payments: payments: buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare: and updating your records, including changing your address or notify the death of a shareholder.
bank mandate instructions: and If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your appointing a proxy for the AGM.
registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over the When contacting Equiniti or registering online, you should have your phone, however, for security reasons, if you hold more than 2,500 shareholder reference number at hand.
This can be found on your shares, you will need to put this in writing to Equiniti.
share certificate, dividend tax voucher or any other correspondence Duplicate documents you have received from Equiniti.
If you receive more than one copy of shareholder documents, Centrica FlexiShare it is likely that you have multiple accounts on the share register, FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share perhaps with a slightly different name or address.
Your shares are held by a nominee company, Equiniti shareholdings, please contact Equiniti and provide your shareholder Corporate Nominees Limited, however, you are able to attend and reference numbers.
This also helps us to reduce our environmental vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own impact and save paper.
Holding your shares in this way is free and comes with a American Depositary Receipts ADR number of benefits: We have an ADR programme, trading under the symbol CPYYY.
low cost share dealing rates, full details of which are available Centricas ratio is one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary shares.
on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges: and Further information is available from our website or please contact: quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares.
ADR Depositary Website BNY Mellon Shareowner Services A wealth of other information is also available on our website, including: PO Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 regular updates about our business: Email: shrrelations@.
com comprehensive share price information: Website: mybnymdr.
com financial results: and Telephone: 1-888-269-2377 toll-free in the US or 1-201-680-6825 from outside the US dividend payment dates and amounts.
This Annual Report can also be viewed online by visiting centrica.
Contact Equiniti Manage more online Contact details for our Registrar: You can view and manage your shareholding Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, online.
Go to the electronic communications West Sussex BN99 6DA, United Kingdom section of the Shareholder Centre on our website at centrica.
com shareholdercentre UK 44 0 121 415 7028 Online: help.
co. uk Calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, UK time.
co. uk Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 188 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION MANAGING YOUR SHARES CONTINUED Dividends Financial calendar 2015 Dividends on Centrica shares are usually paid in June and November.
19 February 2015 Details of the dividends for the year ended 31 December 2014 can Preliminary results be found in note 11 to the Financial Statements on page 115.
27 April 2015 Interim management statement You are encouraged to have your dividends paid directly to your Annual General Meeting bank or building society account.
This means that you will receive the money on the day it is paid which avoids the risk of dividend 30 July 2015 Interim results cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
If you do choose to receive your dividends in this way, a consolidated tax voucher 19 November 2015 Interim management statement will be sent to you in March each year.
February 2016 If you do not have a UK bank or building society account, Equiniti Preliminary results is able to pay dividends in local currencies in over 30 countries.
For a small fee, you could have your dividends converted from Dividend calendar 2015 sterling and paid into your designated bank account, usually within five days of the dividend being paid.
30 April 2015 Ex-dividend date for 2014 final dividend Scrip dividends 1 May 2015 At the 2015 AGM, Centrica will seek shareholder approval for the Record date for 2014 final dividend introduction of a Scrip dividend programme Scrip.
If approved, 25 June 2015 the Scrip will enable shareholders to receive new, fully paid Centrica Payment date for 2014 final dividend shares instead of cash dividends.
The Scrip will allow those September 2015 shareholders who wish to participate the opportunity to increase Ex-dividend date for 2015 interim dividend their shareholding without incurring dealing charges and stamp duty.
September 2015 The Scrip will be made available to all shareholders entered on the Record date for 2015 interim dividend Companys register at the record date.
If you are resident outside November 2015 the UK, you should check with Equiniti to ensure participation is Payment date for 2015 interim dividend permitted in your jurisdiction.
If you hold your shares indirectly, you should contact your nominee at the time the Scrip is launched to confirm if you are able to participate.
Scrip timetable 27 April 2015 The number of new shares that you receive will depend on the Annual General Meeting amount of cash dividend that you are entitled to and the Scrip Approval of 2014 final dividend and Scrip dividend programme reference price.
Only whole shares will be issued and any residual by shareholders cash that is left over, will be retained and added to the amount of 30 April 2015 cash available for the next dividend.
Ex-dividend date Once the new shares have been issued, a Scrip dividend statement 1 May 2015 will be sent to you along with a new share certificate.
If shares are Record date held in FlexiShare, you will receive an account statement and CREST 7 May 2015 members will have their accounts credited directly.
Scrip reference share price set Eligible shareholders will be invited to join the Scrip when it launches 13 May 2015 Scrip invitation mailed to all shareholders and the invitation will contain all necessary details.
The Scrip will be offered in June 2015 when the 2014 final dividend is paid and will 4 June 2015 4.30pm replace the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Deadline for the receipt of election forms from shareholders 24 June 2015 Unclaimed dividends Share certificates FlexiShare statements posted We work with a specialist tracing agency, ProSearch, to identify 25 June 2015 shareholders whose details are not up to date and who have Dividend payment date first day of dealing in new shares outstanding cash entitlements.
During 2014 we conducted a tracing programme which reunited 3,237 shareholders who we lost contact Annual General Meeting with, with their unclaimed dividends.
To ensure you continue to receive all our communications and mailings, please notify Equiniti 27 April 2015 when your address details change.
Will be held at 2pm at ExCeL London, One Western Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL Together with Equiniti, we have introduced an electronic queries service to enable our shareholders to manage their investment 24 7.
Details of this service can be found at shareview.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 189 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Share dealing services Shareholder fraud warning If you wish to buy or sell Centrica shares and hold a share certificate, Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any suspicious or you can do this by using the services of a stockbroker or high street unsolicited mail or telephone calls in relation to their Centrica shares.
bank: or through telephone or online services.
These may offer to buy shares at a discount, sell shares at a premium or offer a free company report.
These communications can imply a In order to sell your shares in this way, you will need to present your connection with Centrica and are often from overseas based brokers share certificate at the time of sale.
Alternatively, if you hold your who are very persuasive and extremely persistent, with professional shares through FlexiShare, you can buy and sell Centrica shares websites to support their activities.
They often use high pressure through the Shareview portal.
tactics to attract investors into scams which turn out to be worthless or non-existent and can cost shareholders money or their shares.
ShareGift If you have a small number of shares and the dealing costs or the If you do find yourself involved in a scam, you are encouraged minimum fee make it uneconomical to sell them, it is possible to to take the following steps: donate these to ShareGift, a registered charity, who provide a free obtain the full name of the person and organisation and make service to enable you to dispose charitably of such shares.
More a record of any other information they give you, for example, information on this service can be found at sharegift.
org or by calling telephone number, address, web address: 44 0 20 7930 3737. if the caller persists, simply hang up: and Centrica share history report the matter to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA so that Centricas shares were first traded on the London Stock Exchange on they can investigate.
17 February 1997 following the demerger from British Gas plc.
Since then there have been three events affecting the share capital, as shown You are advised to deal only with financial services firms that below, with full details available from Equiniti and on our website: are authorised by the FCA.
You can check the firm is properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting fca.
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be 2004 share consolidation: and eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 2008 rights issue.
Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
Capital gains tax For more detailed information on how you can protect yourself from The information provided below is primarily for the purpose of an investment scam, or to report a scam, go to fca.
uk individual shareholders resident in the UK calculating their personal consumers scams investment-scams  liability.
Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax scams reporting-form or call 0800 111 6768. position or who are subject to tax in a jurisdiction other than Details of any share dealing services that Centrica endorses are theUKshould consult an appropriate professional adviser.
available on our website and are included in Company mailings.
Capital gains tax CGT is a tax on the profit or gain you make when you sell, or otherwise dispose of, an asset such as shares.
You will only be liable for CGT if the gain you make the positive difference between the value of the shares on the day you sold them minus the value on the day you acquired them, together with any other CGT chargeable gains that you make in the same tax year, exceeds the annual exemption limit 11,000 for the 2014 15 tax year and 11,100 for the 2015 16 tax year.
Shareholders who held British Gas shares at demerger would have received one Centrica share and one BG plc share for each British Gas share held.
The base cost distribution of British Gas shares were allocated between Centrica and BG plc, 27.053% and 72.947% respectively.
Due to the range of individual circumstances, shareholders are advised to contact HMRC or seek independent advice when calculating their CGT liability.
Further information about CGT can be found on the HMRC website at: hmrc.
Financial Conduct Authority Contact the FCA to report a scam Telephone: 0800 111 6768 Online: fca.
uk consumers scams investment-scams  reporting-form Telephone: 0800 111 6768 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
