128 Financial statements Key factors reviewed include 1.
Basis of preparation continued Presentation of specic items Transaction volumes or other inputs aecting future revenues which The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, market position identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are those and other factors such as general economic conditions.
that in managements judgement need to be disclosed separately by Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the virtue of their si]e, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event transition, development, transformation and deployment phases for or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative as well as customer contracts.
qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
The status of commercial relations with customers and the implication This is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by for future revenue and cost projections.
management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee Our estimates of future sta and third-party costs and the degree to and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of which cost savings and eciencies are deliverable.
The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, The directors believe that presentation of the groups results in this way transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT services is relevant to an understanding of the groups financial performance, contracts is disclosed in note 16. as specic items are identied by virtue of their si]e, nature or Pension obligations incidence.
Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension to be appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and benets to approximately 313,000 people over a period of more than is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by 80{years.
The accounting cost of these benets and the present value management and reported to the Board and the Operating Committee.
of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used of the members, the salary progression of our current employees, price by other companies.
ination and the discount rate used to calculate the net present value of Specic items include disposals of businesses and investments, the future pension payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, determining the pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, statements.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our property rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and judgement regarding future expectations.
the settlement of multiple tax years.
The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2014, the key Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note{8. financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the sensitivity of the IAS 19 Revised 2011 pension liability at 31 March 2014, 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements and of the income statement charge in 2014 15 to changes in these The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires assumptions are disclosed in note 19. the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our estimates, The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and assumptions and judgements based on available information and switching equipment operating for over ten years and underground experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in financial reporting, ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT actual results could dier from these estimates.
Management has systems and platforms that supports the products and services provided discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures to our customers and that is also used within the group.
The annual with the Audit & Risk Committee.
The areas involving a higher degree depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the estimated of{judgement or complexity are described below.
service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on the Long-term customer contracts remaining lives in light of technological change, network investment Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial plans including the groups bre rollout programme, prospective years.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets concerned.
may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each Changes to the service lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2013 contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract will had no significant impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised 31 March 2014. immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may have to be The carrying values of software and property, plant and equipment are written down to the extent they are no longer considered to be fully disclosed in notes 12 and 13.
The useful lives applied to the principal recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its categories of assets are disclosed on page 131. contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Provisions and contingent liabilities As disclosed in note 18, the groups provisions principally relate to obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a number of surplus properties.
Although eorts are being made to sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
