Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Other information Dividends The Directors of Intu Properties plc have proposed a final PID SPECIAL NOTE: dividend per ordinary share ISIN GB0006834344 of 9.1 pence UK shareholders 2013 9.1 pence as adjusted for the rights issue bonus factor For those who are eligible for exemption from the 20 per to bring the total dividend per ordinary share for the year to cent withholding tax and have not previously registered for 13.7pence 2013 13.7 pence as adjusted by the rights issue exemption, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC Tax Exemption bonus factor.
A scrip dividend alternative will continue to Declaration is available for download from the Investors section be offered.
of the Intu Properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or on request to our UK registrars, Capita Asset Services.
Validly completed The dividend may be partly paid as a Property Income forms must be received by Capita Asset Services no later than Distribution PID and partly paid as a non-PID.
The PID element the dividend Record Date, to be advised: otherwise the dividend will be subject to deduction of a 20 per cent withholding tax will be paid after deduction of tax.
unless exemptions apply please refer to the PID special note below.
Any non-PID element will be treated as an ordinary UK South African and other non-UK shareholders company dividend.
For South African shareholders, non-PID South African shareholders may apply to HMRC after payment cash dividends may be subject to deduction of South African of the dividend for a refund of the difference between the 20 per Dividends Tax at 15 per cent.
cent withholding tax and the UK South African double taxation treaty rate of 15 per cent.
Other non-UK shareholders may The following are the salient dates for the payment of the be able to make similar claims for a refund of UK withholding proposed final dividend.
Refund application forms for all non-UK Tuesday 31 March 2015 shareholders are available for download from the Investors Sterling Rand exchange rate struck section of the Intu Properties plc website intugroup.
co. uk, or on request to our South African registrars, Computershare, or Wednesday 1 April 2015 HMRC.
UK withholding tax refunds are not claimable from Intu Sterling Rand exchange rate and dividend amount in SA Properties plc, the South African Revenue Service SARS or currency announced other national authorities, only from the UKs HMRC.
Monday 13 April 2015 Additional information on PIDs can be found at intugroup.
co. uk Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the Johannesburg investors  .
Stock Exchange The above does not constitute advice and shareholders should Thursday 16 April 2015 seek their own professional guidance.
Intu Properties plc does Ordinary shares listed ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange not accept liability for any loss suffered arising from reliance on Friday 17 April 2015 the above.
Record date for 2014 final dividend in London and Johannesburg Thursday 28 May 2015 Dividend payment date for shareholders South African shareholders should note that, in accordance with the requirements of Strate, the last day to trade cum-dividend will be Friday 10 April 2015 and that no dematerialisation or rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Monday 13 April 2015 to Friday 17 April 2015 inclusive.
No transfers between the UK and South African registers may take place from Thursday 31 March 2015 to Sunday 19 April 2015 inclusive.
165 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
