Other information Shareholder information Registered Office Share dealing 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT Existing UK shareholders may trade Intu Properties plc shares Registered in England & Wales no.
3685527 through Capita Share Dealing Services who provide an easy to use, real-time online, telephone and postal dealing service.
Websites Contact details are: intugroup.
co. uk Telephone within UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per Registrars minuteplus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday Friday All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including Ireland Lo-call 1 890 946 375 notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a outside UK 44 20 3367 2686 share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: Existing South African shareholders whose shares are held in For shareholders registered in the UK electronic format through Computershare CSDP may trade Capita Asset Services Intu Properties plc shares through Computershares low cost The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU telephone share dealing service on 0861 100 950 SA calls only.
Telephone within UK 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minuteplus network extras: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm Sharegift Monday Friday Shareholders with a small number of shares, which may be Telephone outside UK 44 20 8639 3399 uneconomic to sell on a commission basis, may wish to consider Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com donating them to the charity Sharegift registered charity no.
Further information can be found on Sharegifts For shareholders registered in South Africa website sharegift.
Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd Strate Charity Shares 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 South Africa SA shareholders for whom the cost of selling their shares Postal address: would exceed the market value of such shares may wish to PO Box 61051 consider donating them to charity.
An independent non-profit Marshalltown 2107, South Africa organisation called Strate Charity Shares has been established Telephone 27 11 370 5000 to administer this process.
The South African Revenue Service Facsimile 27 11 688 5221 SARS has advised Strate Charity Shares that the value of any Email: web.
co. za shares donated may be deducted from taxable income, as computershare.
com the scheme is registered under section 18A of the Income Tax Act.
For further details, queries and or donations contact the Payment of dividends StrateShare Care toll free help line on 0800 202 363 or Shareholders who wish to have their dividends paid directly into 2711 373 0038 if you are phoning from outside South Africa or a bank or building society account should complete a mandate email charityshares@computershare.
co. za form available from the appropriate registrars.
Electronic communication Share price information The Company supplies information such as the Annual Report The latest information on the Intu Properties plc share price is via its website to shareholders who have consented to such available on the website intugroup.
Shareholders will be notified by email or post when new information is available on the website.
Web-based enquiry service for shareholders Shareholders can at any time revoke a previous instruction in Shareholders registered in the UK can go to capitashareportal.
order to receive hard copies of shareholder information.
com to obtain details of their shareholdings and dividends.
The shareholders surname, Investor Code found on any UK shareholders may register to receive email alerts by logging correspondence from registrars and postcode are required to on to the website of the UK Registrars capitashareportal.
Shareholders may also use this service to amend com and following the instructions given to register an email or change their address and dividend mandate details.
SA shareholders may register to receive email alerts by written instruction to the SA Registrar, Computershare, sent Shareholders registered in South Africa can go to computershare.
either by email ecomms@computershare.
co. za or by facsimile com investor to obtain details of their shareholdings.
Once registered, shareholders are sent a Shareholders will need to follow a registration process in order Notice of Availability email highlighting that the Annual Report to access such information.
Unfortunately, due to South African or other information is available for viewing on the website.
legal requirements, shareholders may not update records, but will be able to view their entire holding of shares globally.
Please note that the Computershare company code for Intu Properties plc is ITUZ.
166 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Other information 167 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Other information 168 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk This report contains forward-looking statements regarding the belief or current These forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report.
Except as expectations of Intu Properties plc, its Directors and other members of its senior required by applicable law, Intu Properties plc makes no representation or warranty management about Intu Properties plcs businesses, financial performance and in relation to them and expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any results of operations.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Intu Properties future performance.
Rather, they are based on current views and assumptions plcs expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of circumstances on which any such statement is based.
which areoutsidethe control of Intu Properties plc and are difficult to predict, Any information contained in this report on the price at which shares or other thatmaycause actual results, performance or developments to differ materially securities in Intu Properties plc have been bought or sold in the past, or on the from anyfuture results, performance or developments expressed or implied yield on such shares or other securities, should not be relied upon as a guide to bytheforward-looking statements.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar ry.
com Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 Intu Properties plc 40 Broadway, London SW1H 0BT intugroup.
co. uk Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014
