Financial statements and other inFormation s hareholDer inFormation financial calendar 2013 14 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date 02 July 2014 Fourth quarter dividend paid 08 august 2014 2014 15 First quarter interim management statement announced 16 July 2014 First quarter ex-dividend date october 2014 First quarter dividend paid november 2014 half-year results announced 18 november 2014 second quarter ex-dividend date January 2015 second quarter dividend paid February 2015 third quarter interim management statement January 2015 third quarter ex-dividend date april 2015 third quarter dividend paid may 2015 Full-year results announced may 2015 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date July 2015 Fourth quarter dividend paid august 2015 the board will announce the availability of a scrip alternative for each dividend via the regulatory news service and on the Groups website www.
com, no later than four business days before each ex-dividend date.
For the fourth quarter dividend of 2013 14, the board expects to announce the split between piD and non-piD income at the same time.
any scrip alternative will not be enhanced.
176 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 Financial statements and other inFormation ReGistRaRs honoRaRy pResident british lands share registrars are equiniti, who can be contacted at: sir John ritblat became managing Director of british land in 1970 and aspect house, spencer road, lancing, West sussex bn99 6Da.
chairman in 1971. he retired from the board in December 2006 and was appointed honorary president, in recognition of his work building equinitis shareholder enquiry line is: 0871 384 2143. british land into the industry leading company it is today.
calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, monday to Friday.
website the general enquiries number for overseas callers is: the british land corporate website contains a wealth of material 44 0 121 415 7047. for shareholders, including the current share price, press releases and the investors section which contains detailed information on, the registrars website is: www.
registering among other things, reits and dividends.
the website can be accessed on this site will enable you, amongst other features, to view your at www.
british land shareholding online, to update your details and to opt to receive shareholder mailings electronically.
website deliVeRy of shaReholdeR CommuniCations in addition to being our share registrar, equiniti are also if you currently receive paper copies of shareholder communications, registrars for the blD property holdings limited stock.
you may prefer to receive electronic copies via the british land website instead.
When a document is produced for shareholders you will receive bank of new york operating through capita are registrars of an email containing a link directly to the new document.
if you would british lands Debentures.
they can be contacted at: the registry, like further information, or would like to elect for website delivery 34 beckenham road, beckenham, Kent br3 4tU.
of shareholder communications, please visit www.
co. uk the bondholder enquiry line is: 0871 664 0300. calls cost 10p per or telephone equinitis shareholder enquiry line on 0871 384 2143. minute plus network extras.
lines are open from 9.00am to 5.30pm, calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
lines are open from monday to Friday.
shaRe dealinG seRViCe annual GeneRal meetinG equiniti offer shareview dealing, a service which allows you to buy the aGm of the british land company plc will be held at or sell british land shares if you are a UK resident.
the ocean room, the cumberland hotel, Great cumberland place, london W1h 7Dl on 18 July 2014, at 11.00am.
you can deal in your shares on the internet or by phone.
co. uk dealing or call 0845 603 7037 between shaReGift 8.30am and 4.30pm, monday to Friday, for more information about this shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes service and for details of the rates.
if you are an existing shareholder, it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to the you will need your account shareholder reference number which charity shareGift registered charity 1052686, which specialises in using appears on your share certificate.
such holdings for charitable benefit.
diVidends a shareGift transfer form can be obtained from: as a reit, british land pays property income Distribution piD equiniti and non-property income Distribution non-piD dividends.
aspect house more information on reits and property income distributions can spencer road be found in the glossary on page 179, or in the investors section lancing of our website at www.
West sussex bn99 6Da For further information, contact: payment of diVidends shareGift british land dividends can be directly mandated into your bank or 17 carlton house terrace building society account instead of being despatched to you in paper london sW1y 5ah cheque form.
more information about the benefits of having dividends telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737 paid directly into your bank or building society account, and the mandate Website: www.
org form to set this up, can be found in the investors section of our website at www.
unsoliCited mail on request, british land is legally required to make its share register sCRip diVidend sCheme available to other organisations.
the mailing preference service british land offers shareholders the opportunity to participate in the is an independent organisation offering free services to help reduce scrip Dividend scheme.
this enables participating shareholders to the amount of unsolicited mail you receive.
For more information, or receive shares instead of cash, when a scrip alternative is offered for a to register, visit: www.
For more information and for details of how to sign or write to: up to the scrip Dividend scheme, please visit the investors section of our the mailing preference service website at www.
Freepost 29 lon 20771 london W1e 0Zt ReGisteRed offiCe the address of british lands head office and registered office is: york house 45 seymour street london W1h 7lX telephone: 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax: 44 0 20 7935 5552 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 177 Financial statements and other inFormation G lossary oF terms annualised rent is the gross property rent receivable on a cash epRa net assets epRa naV are the balance sheet net assets excluding basis as at the reporting date.
additionally, it includes the external the mark-to-market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt valuers estimate of additional rent in respect of unsettled rent review, adjustments and deferred taxation on revaluations.
turnover rent and sundry income such as that from car parks and epRa net initial yield is the annualised rents generated by the portfolio, commercialisation, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
after the deduction of an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable assets under management is the full value of all assets managed property outgoings, expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation by british land and includes 100% of the value of all joint ventures adding notional purchasers costs, excluding development and and funds.
bReeam building research establishment environmental epRa nnnaV is the epra nav adjusted to reflect the fair value of assessment method assesses the sustainability of buildings debt and derivatives and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
epRa topped-up net initial yield is the current annualised rent, net Capital return is calculated as the change in capital value of the UK of costs, topped-up for contracted uplifts, where these are not in lieu portfolio, less any capital expenditure incurred, expressed as a of rental growth, expressed as a percentage of capital value, after percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by ipD.
allowing for notional purchasers costs.
capital returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide a return over the relevant period.
epRa vacancy rate is the estimated market rental value erv of vacant space divided by erv of the whole portfolio, excluding developments Capped rents are subject to a maximum level of uplift at the specified and residential property.
this is the inverse of the occupancy rate.
rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
estimated Rental Value eRV is the external valuers opinion as to the Collar rents are subject to a minimum level of uplift at the specified open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Contracted rent is the annualised rent adjusting for the inclusion fair value movement is accounting adjustment to change the book of rent subject to rent free periods.
value of an asset or liability to its market value.
developers profit is the profit on cost estimated by the valuers.
the Gearing see loan to value ltv.
developers profit is typically calculated by the valuers to be a percentage of the estimated total development costs, including land and notional Gross investment activity as measured by our share of acquisitions, finance costs.
sales and investment in committed development.
development uplift is the total increase in the value after taking account Gross rental income is the gross accounting rent receivable quoted of capital expenditure and capitalised interest of properties held for either for the period or on an annualised basis prepared under iFrs development during the period.
it also includes any developers profit which requires that rental income from fixed minimum guaranteed recognised by valuers in the period.
rent reviews and tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line basis over the entire lease to first break.
this can result in income being development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a recognised ahead of cash flow.
project to completion, excluding site values and finance costs finance costs are assumed by the valuers at a notional rate of 5.75% per annum.
Gross Value added GVa provides a snapshot of a companys overall contribution to the UK economy, both directly through activities and epRa is the european public real estate association, the industry indirectly through spending.
Group is the british land company plc and its subsidiaries and epRa Cost Ratio including direct vacancy costs is the ratio of net excludes its share of joint ventures and funds where not treated as a overheads and operating expenses against gross rental income with subsidiary on a line-by-line basis i. e. not proportionally consolidated.
both amounts excluding ground rents payable.
net overheads and operating expenses relate to all administrative and operating expenses headline rent is the contracted gross rent receivable which becomes including the share of joint ventures overheads and operating expenses, payable after all the tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
net of any service fees, recharges or other income specifically intended ifRs are the international Financial reporting standards as adopted to cover overhead and property expenses.
epRa Cost Ratio excluding direct vacancy costs is the ratio calculated above, but with direct vacancy costs removed from net overheads and income return is calculated as net income expressed as a percentage operating expenses balance.
of capital employed over the period, as calculated by ipD.
income returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide a return over epRa earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment and the relevant period.
development property revaluations and gains losses on disposals, changes in the fair value of financial instruments and associated interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered close-out costs and their related taxation.
by underlying profit before net interest payable and taxation.
epRa naV per share is epra nav divided by the diluted number ipd is investment property Databank ltd which produces an of shares at the period end.
independent benchmark of property returns and british land UK portfolio returns.
178 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 Financial statements and other inFormation lettings and lease renewals are divided between short-term net reversionary yield is the anticipated yield to which the initial yield less than two years lease length and long-term more than two will rise or fall once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
lettings and renewals are compared both occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of let units as a percentage to the previous passing rent as at the start of the financial year and of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development the erv immediately prior to letting.
both comparisons are made properties.
it includes accommodation under offer or subject to asset on a net effective basis.
management where they have been taken back for refurbishment and like-for-like eRV growth is the change in erv over a period on the are not available to let as at the balance sheet date.
standing investment properties expressed as a percentage of the omni-channel retailing is the evolution of multi-channel retailing, erv at the start of the period.
like-for-like erv growth is calculated but is concentrated more on a seamless approach to the consumer monthly and compounded for the period subject to measurement, experience through all available shopping channels i. e. mobile internet as calculated by ipD.
devices, computers, bricks and mortar, television, radio, direct mail, like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in net rental income catalogue, etc.
on properties owned throughout the current and previous periods over rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent under review.
this growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease is above the estimated rental value erv.
accounting adjustments but excludes properties held for development in either period and properties with guaranteed rent reviews.
overall topped-up net initial yield is the epra net topped-up initial yield, adding all contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
loan to value ltV is the ratio of principal value of gross debt less cash, short-term deposits and liquid investments to the aggregate passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under value of properties and investments.
mark-to-market is the difference between the book value of an asset portfolio valuation movement is the increase in value of the portfolio or liability and its market value.
of properties held at the balance sheet date and net sales receipts of those sold during the period, expressed as a percentage of the multi-channel retailing is the use of a variety of channels in a customers capital value at the start of the period plus net capital expenditure, shopping experience, including research, before a purchase.
such capitalised interest and transaction costs.
channels include: retail stores, online stores, mobile stores, mobile app stores, telephone sales and any other method of transacting with property income distributions pids are profits distributed to a customer.
transacting includes browsing, buying, returning as well shareholders which are subject to tax in the hands of the shareholders as preand post-sale service.
piDs are normally paid net of withholding tax currently at 20% which the reit pays to the tax authorities on behalf net development Value is the estimated end value of a development of the shareholder.
certain types of shareholder i. e. pension funds project as determined by the external valuers for when the building is completed and fully let taking into account tenant incentives and are tax exempt and receive piDs without withholding tax.
it is based on the valuers view on ervs, companies also pay out normal dividends, called non-piDs, which yields, letting voids and rent-frees.
are treated as normal dividends and are not subject to withholding tax.
net effective rent is the contracted gross rent receivable taking into property valuation is reported by the Groups external valuers.
account any rent-free period or other tenant incentives.
the incentives in accordance with usual practice, they report valuations net, after are treated as a cost-to-rent and spread over the lease to the earliest the deduction of the notional purchasers costs, including stamp termination date.
duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
net equivalent yield is the weighted average income return after Rack rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent allowing for notional purchasers costs a property will produce based is in line with the estimated rental value erv, implying a nil reversion.
upon the timing of the income received.
in accordance with usual Rent-free period see tenant or lease incentives.
practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received annually in arrears.
Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically every five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current net initial yield is the current annualised rent, net of costs, market level at the review date.
For upwards-only rent reviews, the expressed as a percentage of capital value, after allowing for notional rent will either remain at the same level or increase if market rents purchasers costs.
have increased at the review date.
net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are either where rents are payment of direct property outgoings which typically comprise ground subject to contracted uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: rents payable under head leases, void costs, net service charge expenses or where the rent is subject to an agreed minimum level of uplift and other direct irrecoverable property expenses.
net rental income at the specified rent review.
is quoted on an accounting basis.
net rental income will differ from annualised net cash rents and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews and lease incentives.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 179 Financial statements anD other inFormation G lossary oF terms c ontinUeD Retail planning consents are separated between a1, a2 and a3 as total property return is calculated as the change in capital value, set out in the town and country planning Use classes order 2005. less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as Within the a1 consent category, open a1 consent grants planning for a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated by ipD.
any type of retail, while restricted a1 consent places limits on the types total property returns are calculated monthly and indexed to provide of retail that can operate this is typically a restriction that only bulky a return over the relevant period.
goods operators are allowed to trade at that site.
total return total accounting return is the growth in epra nav class Description Use for all any of the following purposes plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage of epra nav per share at the beginning of the period.
a1 shops retail sale of goods other than hot food: post office: sale of tickets or as a travel agency: total shareholder Return is the growth in value of a shareholding sale of sandwiches or other cold food off over a specified period, assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase the premises: hairdressing: direction of additional units of stock.
funerals: display of goods for sale: hiring out of domestic or personal goods articles: total tax contribution is a more comprehensive view of tax contributions the reception of goods to be washed, cleaned than the accountancy-defined tax figure quoted in most financial or repaired: a retail warehouse club being statements.
it comprises taxes and levies paid directly, as well as a retail club where goods are sold, or taxes collected from others which we administered.
displayed for sale, only to persons who are members of that club: or as a night club.
turnover rents is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
Financial and Financial services: professional services professional other than health or medical : or other under rented is the term used to describe when the contracted rent services services including betting appropriate is below the estimated rental value erv, implying a positive reversion.
underlying earnings per share eps consists of underlying profit D2 assembly cinemas, music and concert halls, after tax divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares and leisure bingo and dance halls but not night clubs, in issue during the period.
swimming baths, skating rinks, gymnasiums or areas for indoor or outdoor sports and underlying profit before tax is the pre-tax epra earnings measure with recreations.
adjustments include mark-to-market adjustments on, or profits on disposal of, held for trading assets, markReversion is the increase in rent estimated by the external valuers, to-market adjustments on the convertible bond and issue costs of the where the passing rent is below the estimated rental value.
the increases to rent arise on rent reviews and lettings.
Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold tenure for a period scrip dividend british land offers its shareholders the opportunity of up to 999 years.
a peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
to receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
this is known as a scrip dividend.
weighted average debt maturity each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result standing investments are assets which are directly held and not is divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
in the course of development.
weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative tenant or lease incentives are incentives offered to occupiers to enter costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue into a lease.
typically this will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash at the period end.
Under accounting rules the value of lease incentives is amortised through the income statement on a straightweighted average unexpired lease term is the average lease term line basis to the earliest lease termination date.
remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income including rent-frees.
the calculation tmt stands for technology, media and telecommunications.
excludes residential leases and properties allocated as developments.
the residual site value of a development is calculated as the estimated yield compression occurs when the net equivalent yield of a property net development value, less development profit, all development decreases, measured in basis points.
construction costs, finance costs assumed at a notional rate of a project to completion and notional site acquisition costs.
the residual yield on cost is the estimated annual rent of the completed development is determined to be the current site value.
divided by the total cost of development including site value and finance costs, accruing at a rate of 4% per annum to the point of assumed rent topping out is a traditional construction ceremony to mark the commencement, expressed as a percentage return.
occasion when the structure of the building reaches the highest point.
yield shift is a movement usually expressed in bps in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given period.
yield compression is a commonly-used term for a reduction in yields.
180 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 foRwaRd-lookinG statements head office and registered office design and production this report contains certain forward-looking statements.
such statements reflect current bostock and pollitt limited, london york house views on, among other things, our markets, activities, projections, objectives and prospects.
board photography barry Willis 45 seymour street such forward-looking statements can sometimes, but not always, be identified by their print cpi colour london reference to a date or point in the future or the use of forward looking terminology, including W1h 7lX terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, due, printed on heaven 42, from Forest telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 p lans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could, should or similar stewardship council Fsc certified Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 expressions or in each case their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
produced by their nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks, assumptions and using vegetable based inks and printed www.
com uncertainties because they relate to future events and depend on circumstances which may by cpi colour, a carbonneutral info britishland.
com @ or may not occur and may be beyond our ability to control or predict.
therefore they should company, certified to iso 14001 be regarded with caution.
@ important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements of british land to differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, among other things: a general business and political, social and economic conditions globally, b industry and market trends including demand in the property investment market and property price volatility, c competition, d changes in government and other regulation, including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation in particular, in respect of british lands status as a real estate investment trust, e inflation, f labour relations and work stoppages, g natural disasters, h british lands overall business strategy and investment choices in its portfolio management, i legal or other proceedings against or affecting british land, j reliable and secure it infrastructure, k changes in occupier demand and tenant default, l changes in financial and equity markets including interest and exchange rate fluctuations, m changes in accounting practices and the interpretation of accounting standards and n the availability and cost of finance.
the companys principal risks are described in greater detail in the section of this report headed principal risks.
Forward-looking statements should therefore be construed in light of all such factors.
information contained in this report relating to british land or its share price or the yield on its shares are not guarantees of, and should not be relied upon as an indicator of, future performance.
any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of british land speak only as of the date they are made.
such forward looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above and no representation, assurance, guarantee or warranty is given in relation to them whether by british land or any of its associates, directors, officers, employees or advisers, including as to their completeness, accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
other than in accordance with our legal and regulatory obligations including under the UK Financial conduct authoritys listing rules and Disclosure rules and transparency rules, british land does not intend or undertake to update or revise forward looking statements to reflect any changes in british lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in information, events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Head Office and registered Office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 www.
