Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in of the financial and corporate governance information as accordance with applicable law and regulations.
provided on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless the Companys and the Groups performance, business model they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state and strategy.
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these Governance section on pages 54 and 55 confirm that, to the best financial statements, the Directors are required to: of their knowledge: a select suitable accounting policies and then apply a the Group financial statements, which have been prepared them consistently in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, b make judgements and accounting estimates that are give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial reasonable and prudent position and profit of the Group c state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development Union have been followed, subject to any material departures and performance of the business and the position of the disclosed and explained in the financial statements Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces d prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Signed on behalf of the Board on 27 February 2015 continue in business David Fischel Matthew Roberts Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud andother irregularities.
86 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Accounts Accounts Independent auditors report 88 Consolidated income statement 94 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 95 Balance sheets 96 Statements of changes in equity 97 Statements of cash flows 100 Notes to the accounts 101 87 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
