The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 77.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that of materiality the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 4.2 million.
This figure was determined as 0.5% of noncurrent assets.
We consider non-current assets to be a critical financial performance measure for the group on the basis that it is a key metric used by management and is the basis of the discussion of net asset value in the Strategic Report.
This figure is below 1% of total equity.
In addition to total equity, we also consider the account balances contained within adjusted profit before tax, which exclude the gain on revaluation of investment properties, movement in fair value interest rate derivatives and share of non-recurring losses gains in associate, to be critical financial performance measures for the group.
We applied a lower threshold of 1.4 million for testing all balances impacting these financial performance measures, which has been determined as 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 80,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also reported to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide scope of our audit controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
The Group audit team performed the audits of all entities within the Group given they are all located in the United Kingdom and operate from the same office with the same financial system.
In addition, the Group team also tested the consolidation process.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned site visits that has been designed so that either the Senior Statutory Auditor or another member of the Group audit team visits each of the Groups stores at least once every six years.
At each site visited we undertook a stock count, tested occupancy, tested controls around cash, agreed cash balances to bank reconciliations and held discussions with store staff.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 2006 with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: received and accounting records we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
