Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties continued agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditor for their audit of the March 2014 financial statements and September half-yearly report: undertaken an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: considered the audit partner and audit firm rotation: undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the external auditor: considered the need for an internal audit function: reviewed the arrangements for whistleblowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy in the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy is included in the employee handbook: met the Groups external valuers: met the Groups Store Compliance Manager: reviewed the Audit Committees Report: and reviewed its own effectiveness.
Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee reviews all financial information published by the Group in year end and half-year financial statements, including the presentation and disclosure of the financial information.
It also considers the appropriateness of the accounting policies adopted by the Group and the accounting judgements made by management in the preparation of the financial information.
The Committee has considered whether the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 provides a fair, balance and understandable view of the Groups performance, strategy and business model and whether it provides the necessary information to enable shareholders and prospective shareholders to assess the Groups performance, strategy and business model.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 provides a fair, balanced and understandable view and included the necessary information as set out above.
The Committee has confirmed this to the Board, whose statement is included in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 79.
The Committee focuses on matters it considers important in their impact on the reported results of the Group, and on matters where there is a high degree of complexity and or judgement.
The key area of judgement that the Committee focuses on at the reporting date is the valuation of the investment property portfolio.
This is carried out by independent external valuers, but by its nature it is subjective, with significant judgement applied to the valuation, particularly given the lack of transactional evidence for prime self storage assets.
Members of the Committee met the external valuers to discuss the valuations, review the key judgements and discussed whether there were any disagreements with management.
This year the Committee reviewed and challenged the valuer on the cap rates, rental growth assumptions and stabilised occupancy levels, to agree on the appropriateness of the assumptions adopted.
The Committee also challenged the valuer, and satisfied itself on, their independence, their quality control processes including peer partner review and qualifications to carry out the valuations.
Management also have processes in place to review the external valuations.
In addition, the external auditors use specialists to review the valuation and report their findings and conclusions to the Audit Committee.
The Committee has also considered a number of other judgements made by management in the preparation of the financial statements.
It has concluded that none of these judgements have a material impact on the Groups results.
The judgements reviewed include the recognition of the receivable due to the Group under the Capital Goods Scheme.
Management have reported to the Audit Committee that they are satisfied that they are not aware of any material misstatements in the financial statements.
The auditors confirmed in their report to the Audit Committee that they had not found any material misstatements during their audit work.
Based on the above, the Committee concluded that the financial statements appropriately apply the key estimates and critical judgements, in respect of the disclosures and the amounts reported.
The Committee also concluded that the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
External auditor The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Financial Officer.
The policy states that the external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: a report identifying the number of former external audit staff now employed by the Group and their positions within the Group: a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the position of non-audit services by the external auditor: and the past service of the auditor who was first appointed in 2000.
