Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Other information Glossary ABC1 customers Interest rate swap Proportion of customers within UK social groups A, B and A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange C1, defined as members of households whose chief earners interest rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are occupation is professional, higher or intermediate management, used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
IPD Annual property income Investment Property Databank Limited, producer of an The Groups share of passing rent plus the external valuers independent benchmark of property returns.
estimate of annual excess turnover rent and sundry income such Like-for-like property as that from car parks and mall commercialisation.
Investment property which has been owned throughout both Debt to assets ratio periods without significant capital expenditure in either period, Net external debt dividend by the market value of investment so that income can be compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the and development property.
purposes of comparison of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous reporting period end but not Diluted figures throughout the prior period.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of dilutive Long-term lease potential shares issuable under convertible bonds and employee incentive arrangements.
A lease with a term certain of at least five years.
Earnings per share LTV loan to value Profit for the period attributable to owners of Intu divided by the The ratio of attributable debt to the market value of an weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
EPRA NAV per share diluted, adjusted European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of NAV per share calculated on a diluted basis and adjusted to Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial reflect any unrecognised surplus on trading properties net of statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, tax, to remove the fair value of derivatives net of tax, to remove more transparent and comparable.
goodwill resulting from the recognition of deferred tax liabilities, and to remove deferred tax on investment and development ERV estimated rental value property and other investments.
The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the Net asset value NAV per share current annual market rent of all lettable space net of any nonrecoverable charges, before bad debt provision and adjustments Net assets attributable to owners of Intu Properties plc divided required under IFRS regarding tenant lease incentives.
by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end.
Exceptional items Net external debt Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view Net debt after removing the Metrocentre compound financial are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size, instrument and, for 31 December 2013, short-term investments nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups representing CMBS notes issued in respect of intu Metrocentre financial performance.
and received as cash in February 2014.
Headline rent ITZA Net initial yield EPRA Annual contracted rent per square foot after expiry of Annualised net rent on investment property after deduction concessionary periods in terms of zone A. of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls, empty rates and merchant association Interest cover contribution expressed as a percentage of the gross market Underlying operating profit excluding trading property related value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent items divided by the net finance cost plus interest on convertible with EPRAs net initial yield, and as provided by the Groups bonds recognised in equity excluding the change in fair value of independent external valuers.
financial instruments, exceptional finance costs and amortisation Net rental income of compound financial instruments.
The Groups share of net rents receivable as shown in the income statement, having taken due account of non-recoverable costs, bad debt provisions and adjustments to comply with IFRS including those regarding tenant lease incentives.
163 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Other information Glossary Continued NNNAV per share diluted, adjusted Scrip Dividend Scheme NAV per share diluted, adjusted adjusted to include the fair The Group offers shareholders the opportunity to participate values of derivatives, debt and deferred taxes.
in the Scrip Dividend Scheme.
This enables participating shareholders to receive shares instead of cash when a Scrip Nominal equivalent yield Alternative is offered for a particular dividend.
Effective annual yield to a purchaser from an asset at market Short-term lease value before taking account of notional acquisition costs assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, reflecting ERV but A lease with a term certain of less than five years.
disregarding potential changes in market rents, as determined by Tenant or lease incentives the Groups independent external valuers.
Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Occupancy Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent free period The passing rent of let and under offer units expressed as a and or a cash contribution to fit out the premises.
Under IFRS the percentage of the passing rent of let and under offer units value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the plus ERV of un-let units, excluding development and recently income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Units let to tenants in administration and Topped-up NIY EPRA still trading are treated as let and those no longer trading are Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of rent free periods and treated as un-let.
Passing rent Total financial return The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at The change in NAV per share diluted, adjusted plus dividends the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting per share paid in the period expressed as a percentage of opening adjustments made in respect of rent free periods or tenant NAV per share diluted, adjusted.
incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and Total property return does not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect The change in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, of unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car plus net income in the year expressed as a percentage of the parks etc.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in capital employed opening capital value plus capital expenditure administration are excluded.
incurred in the year as calculated by IPD.
PMA Trading property Property Market Analysis LLP, a producer of property market Property held for trading purposes rather than to earn rentals research and forecasting.
or for capital appreciation and shown as a current asset in the Property Income Distribution PID balance sheet.
A dividend, generally subject to UK withholding tax at the Underlying earnings per share EPS basic rate of income tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay to its Earnings per share adjusted to exclude valuation movements, shareholders from its qualifying rental profits.
Certain classes exceptional items and related tax.
of shareholder may qualify to receive a PID gross, shareholders should refer to intugroup.
co. uk for further information.
Underlying figures The Group can also pay non-PID dividends which are not subject Amounts described as underlying exclude valuation movements, to UK withholding tax.
exceptional items and related tax.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Vacancy rate EPRA REITs are internationally recognised property investment vehicles The ERV of vacant space divided by total ERV.
which have now been introduced in many countries around the Yield shift world.
Each country has its own rules, but the broad intention of REITs is to encourage investment in domestic property by A movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield of a removing tax distortions for investors.
In the UK, REITs must meet certain ongoing rules and regulations, including the requirement to distribute at least 90 per cent of qualifying rental profits to shareholders.
Withholding tax of 20 per cent is deducted from these Property Income Distributions see Glossary.
Profits from a REITs nonproperty business remain subject to normal corporation tax.
The Group elected for REIT status in the UK with effect from 1 January 2007.
164 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
