Strategic report t He MarKets We oPerate in A DEVELOPED, DEEP, LIQUID Overview investing in PrOPerty AND WIDELY-HELD MARKET the UK has a large commercial property there are many different ways of investing BN market which attracts a broad range in the commercial property market: of domestic and international investors.
in publicly-listed property companies such 2,000 it has strong, established property rights: as British land: long-term leases with upwards only rent in a wide variety of listed and unlisted 1,500 reviews with occupiers generally responsible funds: or for repairs, maintenance and insurance: 1,000 and a transparent valuation system.
directly in the property itself.
today it is one of the top markets globally Publicly-listed real estate companies account 500 for international investors in property.
for around 15% of the commercial market in the UK British land accounts for around 11% 0 tHe sHaPe Of tHe Market of the UK-listed real estate market by market Because of the diversity of ownership, there capitalisation.
More than 75% of listed property is no definitive or regular measurement companies in the UK are reits.
PrOPerty regulatiOn the British Property federation estimated Property management and development End 2011 that the commercial market was worth around is closely governed by local and national laws End 2012 569 billion in 2012 which split into three main and regulation which cover a whole range sectors: retail, office and industrial, along Source: Property Data Report 2013 of important activities including building, with a number of smaller specialist sectors.
planning, roads, parking, public transport and the commercial residential market is currently RETAIL AND OFFICES FORM THE LARGEST fire.
of these, planning has the most material a small part of the institutional investment COMPONENTS OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY impact on the value development chain in so market but it is expected to grow significantly.
569BN far as planning regulates both the development of the building itself and the purpose for which Measuring Market PerfOrMance it is used.
changes in the planning environment Retail the investment Property Databank iPD Offices can have a significant impact on value and 65bn 207bn aggregates the valuation performance of Industrial this is one of the key ways that British land Other around 121 billion of commercial property, 140bn creates value.
commercial providing monthly, quarterly and annual property performance information.
these are the in recent years, the government has introduced benchmarks against which many property new legislation to simplify the complex local companies, including British land, measure and national planning processes and rules themselves.
at British land, our properties in england, with the aim of boosting investment 157bn are valued on a semi-annual basis by and sustainable development.
Source: Property Data Report 2013 reit legislatiOn cOMPetitive landscaPe reits are globally recognised investment DIRECT OWNERSHIP OF UK-INVESTED British land competes for capital and structures which exist in 34 countries around COMMERCIAL PROPERTY 2012 properties with a diverse range of investors the world.
reits are required to distribute a private, public and institutional.
a number of significant proportion of the rental profits from our equity shareholders also invest alongside their reit operations to their shareholders.
UK institutions Overseas us in specific assets and compete with us for the broad intention is to replicate the tax 38bn investors 78bn investment opportunities.
the most notable treatment of a direct investment in property Investment 38bn examples are gic and norges Bank who effectively removing the double-layer of tax schemes UK REITs are both top 10 shareholders and are our payable by both the company and the listed property 50bn joint venture partners at Broadgate and shareholder.
instead tax is payable at the companies 76bn Meadowhall respectively.
UK unlisted property 68bn the UK reit regime was launched in 2007 companies Other and British land became a reit in that year.
changes to the reit rules were introduced in Source: Property Data Report 2013 2012 which, in effect, were designed to make it easier for companies to become reits and attract institutional investment.
16 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Equities on London Stock Exchange UK governemnt bonds Commercial property
