GLOSSARY Adjusted figures per share Reported amounts adjusted to exclude certain items as set out in note 11 to the accounts.
Anchor store A major store, usually a department, variety or DIY store or supermarket, occupying a large unit within a shopping centre or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
Average cost of borrowing The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowings during the period.
BREEAM Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
Capital return The change in property value during the period after taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
DTR Disclosure and Transparency Rules, issued by the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
EPRA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body.
This organisation has issued Best Practice Recommendations with the intention of improving the transparency, comparability and relevance of the published results of listed real estate companies in Europe.
Equivalent yield true and nominal The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect the timing of future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs.
The true equivalent yield assumes rents are received quarterly in advance.
The nominal equivalent yield assumes rents are received annually in arrears.
The property true and nominal equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
ERV The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property, after deducting head and equity rents, calculated by the Groups external valuers.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gross property value or Gross asset Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
value GAV Gross rental income Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after accounting for the net effect of the amortisation of lease incentives.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
Initial yield Annual cash rents receivable net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, and in the or net initial yield NIY case of France, net of an allowance for costs of approximately 5% primarily for management fees, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Interest cover Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before capitalised interest and change in fair value of derivatives.
Interest rate or currency swap An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation for a or derivatives pre-determined period of time.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and portfolio benchmarks to the property industry.
Joint venture An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on the key financial and operating policies of that entity require each partners consent.
Like-for-like underlying net The percentage change in net rental income for completed investment properties owned throughout rental income both current and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
Loan to value ratio LTV Net debt expressed as a percentage of the total value of investment and development properties.
Net asset value NAV per share Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance sheet date.
Net rental income NRI Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after deducting head and equity rents payable, and other property related costs.
Occupancy rate The ERV of the area in a property or portfolio, excluding developments, which is let, expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of that property or portfolio.
186 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 OTHER INFORMATION Over-rented The amount by which ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Passing rents or rents passing The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free periods and after deducting head and equity rents.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to completion of a development.
Property Income Distribution PID A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay from its taxexempt property rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
Property joint ventures The Groups shopping centre and retail park joint ventures which management proportionally consolidate when reviewing the performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups interest in the VIA Outlets joint venture.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime that in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Return on shareholders equity ROE Capital growth and profit for the year expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds at the beginning of the year, all excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
Reversionary or under-rented The amount by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Scrip dividend A dividend received in the form of shares.
SIIC Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A tax regime in France which exempts participants from the French tax on property income and gains subject to certain requirements.
Total development cost TDC All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total property return TPR Net rental income and capital return expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of or total return property adjusted for capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
Total shareholder return TSR Dividends and capital growth in the share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Turnover rent Rental income that is related to an occupiers turnover.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Vacancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Value Retail VR Owner and operator of luxury outlet Villages in Europe in which Hammerson has an investment.
VIA Outlets VIA A premium outlets joint venture, in which the Group has an investment.
VIA owns and operates premium outlet centres in Europe.
Yield on cost Passing rents expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
Disclaimer This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking in nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Hammersons ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, currency fluctuations, the behaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such as the Companys ability to continue to obtain financing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which the Company operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, on a global, regional or national basis.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Hammerson does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
