116 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on page 156.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, other investment, financial instruments and pension liability.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis as explained in the Report of the Directors on page 107.
Key accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that may affect the financial statements.
The directors believe that the judgements made in the preparation of the financial statements are reasonable.
However, actual outcomes may differ from those anticipated.
Critical accounting judgements include the adoption of the external portfolio valuation without adjustment, the recognition of purchases and disposal of assets and the adoption of a single reporting segment.
The accounting policies for these areas of judgement are set out in the accounting policies below.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2014, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group, the pronouncements either had no impact on the financial statements or resulted in changes to presentation and disclosure only: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 amended June 2011 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 19 revised June 2011 Employee Benefits At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities will impact the disclosure of interests the Group has in other entities IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets IAS 27 revised May 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised May 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities will impact the measurement of certain assets and liabilities The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except as set out above.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
Rental income This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Tenant leases The directors have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for all properties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
