52 41 21 11 8 7 2 Gender diversity Board Senior Middle management management 42 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Our people Our experienced team brings together specialist skills used to manage ourportfolio onan asset-by-asset basis todeliver our strategic priorities.
ensuring continual improvement of the skills and Our culture lies at the heart competency of our employees at all levels and across all ofour ability toachieve our disciplines through appropriate training and development strategic priorities, unlocking courses: and potential across our portfolio.
fostering a friendly environment which engenders a Itis fundamental toour strongcamaraderie.
ability to attract, develop, Diversity motivate and retain our talented employees.
Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and nonToby Courtauld Chief Executive discrimination irrespective of age, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or educational background.
Ouraim is to foster a culture of respect and fairness where Operational KPIs individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, work performance, demonstrated potential and perhaps the most 2014 2013 key of all, the ability to work as part of a team.
Employee retention 95% 94% 1 Whilst our policy remains that selection should be based on Days training provided per employee 3.0 2.9 the best person for the role, we recognise the benefits of gender Employees participating in Share Incentive Plan 72% 73% diversity and will continue to ensure that this is taken into 1.
account when considering any particular appointment.
Our culture the GPE way Where possible, we support part-time working and flexible hours with 12% of employees enjoying some form of flexible Our culture is entrepreneurial and pragmatic, with a high level working practices.
of involvement from senior and executive management and anemphasis on cross-discipline teamwork.
We recognise the Employee prole age benefits of such a positive culture and work hard to maintain itthrough: 1930 a flat management structure: 3140 9 17 4150 regular and effective communication with an open door 50 policy: a formal and extensive induction process for new joiners: 93 Employees regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly across 31 the various teams on different aspects of the business: 36 encouraging our people to be innovative: a disciplined approach providing clear policies and procedures and instilling a strong sense of responsibility foractive risk management: a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success being Employee prole gender diversity based upon the contribution and smooth interaction of every 60 member of the team: 50 recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive 40 mindset and valuable experience: 30 matching the right people to the right roles and taking action where there are gaps: 20 10 an effective performance management system: 1 providing well-constructed and fair reward systems designed 0 to incentivise superior performance and align employees and Women Men shareholders interests: Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 43 Feedback from our new joiners isused to improve the way we dothings.
Desna Martin Company Secretary Our integrated team Joining us Our team brings together specialist skills used to manage our All new employees receive a bespoke induction to the Group, portfolio on an asset-by-asset basis to ensure the achievement including formal meetings with different teams, property tours ofour strategic priorities.
Each of our Department Heads, and training in the GPE way, to help them understand our collectively our Senior management team, interact daily with culture from the very start.
the Executive Directors and reports regularly to the Executive New joiners also complete a questionnaire in their first year to: Committee.
identify ways in which the induction process could be To support the level of activity undertaken both in the current improved further: year and planned for the coming years, during the year we have identify any ways in which their experience with the employed an additional ten people across our Development, Company differed from their expectations: Asset and Financial management teams.
determine any processes or practices in operation at their For more on what our teams have done during the year see: previous place of work that we could usefully introduce to theGroup: Investment management pages 30 and 31 Development management pages 32 and 33 review their understanding of their role and our expectations Asset management pages 34 and 35 of them: and Financial management pages 36 and 37 ascertain their aspirations for their own personal development.
Feedback from our questionnaire this year was generally very positive with Line Managers discussing with the individuals points raised as part of the year-end appraisal process.
Executive Committee Chief Executive Portfolio Director Investment Director Finance Director Toby Courtauld Neil Thompson Ben Chambers Nick Sanderson Senior management team Head of Projects Head of Leasing Head of Asset Management James Pellatt Marc Wilder James Mitchell Head of Development Head of Head of Investment Andrew White Corporate Finance Management Martin Leighton Hugh Morgan Head of Sustainability Head of Financial Company Secretary Janine Cole Reporting and IR Desna Martin Stephen Burrows Wider GPE team 1 Development management team Asset management team Investment management team Financial management team Team size: 18 Team size: 31 Team size: 4 Team size: 27 1.
Includes IT, Insurance and Company Secretarial.
44 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Our people Employee engagement and communication Retention, training and development The Board is responsible for setting our strategic priorities and Our ability to attract and retain talented and committed monitoring performance against them see pages 8 and 9 and individuals is based on three key building blocks: 20 and 21.
The Senior management team is accountable for an effective performance management system: working with their teams to develop individual and team a well-constructed and fair remuneration system designed to performance targets, and for ensuring that employees incentivise superior performance and align employees and understand how theycontribute to the overall business shareholders interests: and objectives.
continual improvement of the skills and competency of our We believe that regular and effective communication lies at employees at all levels and across all disciplines through theheart of our employee engagement strategy.
appropriate training and development courses.
Our approach is based on: Performance management an open door policy: In February each year, the Chief Executive meets with the weekly meetings held across and within departments: Senior management team and other Line Managers together to run through both the timing of the various stages of the annual weekly meetings with non-head office based employees to appraisal process and the Companys strategic priorities for the ensuretheir involvement and to encourage the sharing year.
Following discussions with their Line Managers, at the ofbestpractice: start of the financial year, employees agree their personal weekly presentations from members of the Financial, Asset, objectives designed to help the Company meet its strategic Investment and Development management teams tothe goals together with any development needs and proposed Executive Committee.
Areas covered include credit control, training.
Through a formal six monthly appraisal process, Line marketing to prospective tenants, investment transactions Managers meet with employees to review their progress against and opportunities and development updates.
In each case, these objectives and the training undertaken.
At the year end, discussions focus on the management of risk.
From time the outcome of this review helps form the basis for reward totime, Senior Managers are also asked to present to the under the personal objectives element of the Groups bonus Board and Audit Committee on a variety of topics: plan with recommendations made by Line Managers to the employees at all levels being involved in developing our Executive Committee.
operating policies: and quarterly presentations to all our people from the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors on our results andprogress and plans for the coming year, together with presentations from Senior Managers on specific projects.
These presentations ensure that our people are fully engaged in our plans and activities, and also act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer any questions.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, we held two presentations off-site, one upon practical completion of our development at City Tower, EC2 and the second, upon practical completion of 240Blackfriars Road, SE1.
Tours were also offered to all employees on practical completion of our office development at 95 Wigmore Street, W1 and ourresidential development at Picton Place, W1.
