LIST OF DEFINITIONS Average topped-up rent EPRA topped up net initial yield Annualised rents generated by the portfolio plus rent contracted from This measure incorporates an adjustment to the EPRA NIY in respect expiry of rent free periods and uplifts agreed at the balance sheet date.
of the expiration of rent free periods or other unexpired lease incentives such as discounted rent periods and stepped rents.
Capital return EPRA vacancy rate The annual valuation movement arising on the Groups portfolio Estimated rental value ERV of immediately available space divided expressed as a percentage return of the valuation at the beginning bythe ERV of the EPRA portfolio.
ofthe year adjusted for acquisitions and capital expenditure.
EPRA like-for-like rental income growth The growth in rental income on properties owned throughout the Diluted figures current and previous year under review.
This growth rate includes Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potential dilutive revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but shares issuable under the Groups share option schemes and the excludes properties held for development in either year and convertible bonds.
properties acquired or disposed of in either year.
Earnings earnings per share EPS Earnings represent the profit or loss for the year attributable to equity Fair value movement shareholders and are divided by the weighted average number of An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or ordinary shares in issue during the financial year to arrive at earnings liability to its market value.
Ground rent Estimated rental value ERV The rent payable by the Group for its leasehold properties.
Under This is the external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Headroom European Public Real Estate Association EPRA This is the amount left to draw under the Groups loan facilities, i. e. A not-for-profit association with a membership of Europes leading thetotal loan facilities less amounts already drawn.
property companies, investors and consultants which strives to Interest rate swap establish best practices in accounting, reporting and corporate A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest governance and to provide high-quality information to investors.
EPRA rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally published its latest Best Practices Recommendations in December used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
com media EPRA Best Practices Recommendations BPR - Dec2014 1418399386044. pdf.
This Investment Property Databank Limited IPD includes guidelines for the calculation of the following performance IPD is a company that produces independent benchmarks of property measures which the Group has adopted.
The Group measures its performance against both the Central London Offices Index and the All UK Property Index.
EPRA earnings per share Recurring earnings from core operational activities.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs EPRA net asset value per share Activities and behaviours, aligned to both business objectives and NAV adjusted to include trading properties and other investment individual goals, against which the performance of the Group is interests at fair value and to exclude certain items not expected to annually assessed.
Performance measured against them is referenced crystallise in a long-term investment property business model.
EPRA triple net asset value per share Lease incentives EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of i financial Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes on revaluations, where incentive will be an initial rent free or half rent period, stepped rents, applicable.
ora cash contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
EPRA cost ratio including direct vacancy costs EPRA costs as a percentage of gross rental income less ground Loan-to-value ratio LTV rent including share of joint venture gross rental income less ground Drawn debt net of cash divided by the fair value of the property rent.
EPRA costs include administrative expenses, other property portfolio.
Drawn debt is equal to drawn facilities and the unamortised costs, net service charge costs and the share of joint ventures equity element of the convertible bonds.
overheads and operating expenses net of any service charge Mark-to-market costs, adjusted for service charge costs recovered through rents The difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its and management fees.
EPRA cost ratio excluding direct vacancy costs Calculated as above, but with an adjustment to exclude direct NAV gearing vacancy costs.
Net debt divided by net assets.
EPRA net initial yield NIY Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the Net assets per share or net asset value NAV balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares expenses, divided by the market value of the EPRA property inissue at the balance sheet date.
portfolio, increased by estimated purchasers costs.
172 Financial statements Net debt Total return Borrowings plus bank overdraft less cash and cash equivalents.
The movement in EPRA adjusted net asset value per share on a diluted basis between the beginning and the end of each financial Net interest cover ratio year plus the dividend per share paid during the year expressed as Net property income, excluding all non-core items divided by interest apercentage of the EPRA net asset value per share at the beginning payable on borrowings and non-utilisation fees.
Property income distribution PID Total shareholder return TSR Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property rental The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock business under the REIT regulations.
Exchange plus dividends per share received for the year, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
Non-PID Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Underlying portfolio Properties that have been held for the whole of the year, i. e. excluding Real Estate Investment Trust REIT any acquisitions or disposals made during the year.
The Government established REIT status in the UK in 2007 to remove tax inequalities between different real estate investors and aimed to Underlying valuation increase improve overall investor access to real estate.
REITs are companies The valuation increase on the underlying portfolio.
which are exempt from corporate taxation on profits from property rental income and capital gains on the sale of investment properties.
Yields Net initial yield REITs must distribute 90% of profits from their rental income business Annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the in the form of property income distributions PIDs.
This makes the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating taximplications of investing in REITs equivalent to investing directly in expenses, divided by the market value of the property, increased property.
REITs are also required to meet certain conditions including byestimated purchasers costs.
the proportion of total profits and assets accounted for by their Reversionary yield property rental businesses.
They remain liable to corporation tax The anticipated yield, to which the net initial yield will rise to once onnon-property investment businesses e. g. management fees the rent reaches the estimated rental values.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows The UK has had a tax exempt real estate regime since 1 January from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers 2007 and Derwent London has been a REIT since 1 July 2007. estimated rental value and such items as voids and expenditures, Rent reviews equates to the valuation having taken into account notional Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed in the lease typically every purchasers costs.
Rent is assumed to be received quarterly in five years and their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to the current advance.
market level at the review date.
For upwards only rent reviews, the rent Yield shift will either remain at the same level or increase if market rents are A movement in the yield of a property asset, or like-for-like portfolio, higher at the review date.
Yield compression is a commonly-used term for areduction in yields.
Reversion The reversion is the amount by which the ERV is higher than the rent roll of a property or portfolio.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals and the letting of vacantspace.
Scrip dividend Derwent London offers its shareholders the opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
This is known as a scrip dividend.
Total property return TPR The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, plus the net annual rental income received, expressed as a percentage of capital employed property value at the beginning of the year plus capital expenditure.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 173 LIST OF DEFINITIONS CONTINUED Sustainability and corporate responsibility Automatic Meter Reading AMR This is the technology of automatically collecting consumption, diagnostic, and status data from water or energy metering devices and transferring that data to a central database for billing, troubleshooting, or analysis purposes.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM An environmental impact assessment method for non-domestic buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings: Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
Carbon emissions Scopes 1, 2 and 3 Scope 1 direct emissions: Scope 2 indirect emissions: and Scope 3 other indirect emissions.
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC This is the UK Governments mandatory scheme for carbon emissions reporting and allowance purchasing.
Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers CIBSE CIBSE promotes the career of building services engineers by accrediting courses of study in further and higher education.
Itpublishes guidance and codes which are internationally recognised as authoritative, and sets the criteria for best practice in the profession.
Code for Sustainable Homes CfSH An environmental assessment method for rating and certifying the performance of new homes.
Performance is measured across a series of levels from 1 to 6.
CSR Corporate and Social Responsibility.
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra The Government department responsible for environmental protection, food production and standards, agriculture, fisheries and rural communities in the United Kingdom.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark is an initiative set upto assess the environmental and social performance of public andprivate real estate investments and allow investors to understand their performance.
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED A US based environmental impact assessment method for buildings.
Performance is measured across a series of ratings Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDORs The regulations place a legal duty on employers to report work-related deaths, major injuries or over-three-day injuries, work related diseases and dangerous occurrences near miss accidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
Transmission and distribution T&D The emissions associated with the transmission and distribution losses in the grid from the transportation of electricity from its generation source.
Well to tank WTT The emissions associated with extracting, refining and transporting raw fuel to the vehicle, asset or process under scrutiny.
174 Financial statements Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Empress Litho Limited Derwent London plc Registered office: 25 Savile Row London W1S 2ER T 44 0 20 7659 3000 www.
