OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Key contact details Advisors Valuer: DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Registered office and principal UK address Policy as relates to Non-Executive Directors Auditor: Deloitte LLP Hammerson plc Element Approach to determining element of fees and operation Solicitor: Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 10 Grosvenor Street Fees The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee and those of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by Joint Brokers and Financial Advisors: J. P. Morgan Cazenove London W1K 4BJ the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
and Deutsche Bank AG Registered in England No.
360632 Financial Advisor: Lazard Ltd Fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account independent advice and the time commitment required of Tel: 44 0 20 7887 1000 Non-Executive Directors.
Aggregate total fees payable annually to all Non-Executive Directors is subject to the limit as Fax: 44 0 20 7887 1010 Shareholder administration stated in the Companys Articles of Association from time to time.
The Committee reserves the right to provide additional Payment of dividends to mandated accounts fees within the stated limit including for membership of any additional committee the Board may establish.
In June 2015 the registered office and principal UK address will Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid direct The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully move to: to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should listed companies which the Committee in the case of the Chairman and the Board in respect of the Non-Executive complete a mandate instruction available from the Registrar or can Directors consider to be of equivalent size and complexity but are not set by reference to a prescribed benchmark.
Hammerson plc register at: www.
Under this arrangement, tax Kings Place Fees are paid monthly in cash in arrears and are not pensionable.
vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address.
90 York Way Additional fees The Chairman does not receive any additional fee in respect of membership of any of the Committees.
London Multiple accounts N1 9GE Other Non-Executive Directors may receive additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Remuneration Shareholders who receive more than one copy of communications and Audit Committees.
There is also an additional fee for the Senior Independent Director.
The level of additional fees is from the Company may have more than one account in their name Principal address in France set to reflect the responsibilities of the role.
on the Companys register of members.
Any shareholder wishing to Hammerson France SAS amalgamate such holdings should contact the Registrar.
Other benefits There are no other benefits currently available to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the Company does not 48 rue Cambon consider that reimbursing travel and accommodation expense including to the Companys London office is a benefit in Paris 75001 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP the normal sense, should any assessment to tax be made on such reimbursement, the Company reserves the ability to France Shareholders can reinvest dividend payments in additional shares in settle such liability on behalf of the Non-Executive Director.
the Company under the DRIP operated by the Registrar by completing Tel: 33 0 1 56 69 30 00 Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or participation in the Companys share plans.
an application form online at: www.
com or by calling Fax: 33 0 1 56 69 30 01 While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal sense, Non-Executive Directors can Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0381 from the UK calls cost 10p per participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member, whether paid for by minute plus network extras or 44 0 20 8639 3402 from overseas Registrar the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
co. uk For assistance with queries about the administration of shareholdings, A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Non-Executive Director on termination such as lost share certificates, change of address, change of ownership Elections to participate in the DRIP or cancellation of previous of office.
or dividend payments please contact the Registrar: instructions in respect of the final dividend must be received by The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters the Companys Registrar no later than 25 days before the dividend Capita Asset Services of appointment, which are available for inspection on request.
The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the payment date.
The Registry Chairman and the Executive Directors every three years.
34 Beckenham Road Further details can be found on the website at: www.
com Beckenham Appointments of Non-Executive Directors are for a term of three years, subject to the right of either party to terminate the appointment on not Kent less than three months notice or immediately should a conflict of interest arise.
If any Non-Executive Director is not re-elected at the Companys The DRIP will continue to be available to those shareholders who have BR3 4TU Annual General Meeting, the appointment will cease automatically.
already completed an application form.
Such shareholders should take no action unless they wish to receive their dividend in cash, in which On termination of an appointment, a Non-Executive Director is only entitled to such fees as may have accrued to the date of termination, Tel: 0871 664 0300 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network case they should contact the Registrar to cancel their instruction.
together with the reimbursement in the normal way of any expenses properly incurred prior to that date.
extras, lines are open 9.00 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday or 44 0 20 8639 3399 from overseas The dates of the appointments of the Non-Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 are set out below.
International payment service The Registrar facilitates a service to convert sterling dividends into Date of original appointment to Board Commencement date of current term Unexpired term as at April 2014 email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk certain local currencies.
For further information, please contact website: www.
com Gwyn Burr 21 May 2012 21 May 2012 1 year, 1 month the Registrar address listed above.
Tel: 0871 664 0385 calls cost Terry Duddy 3 December 2009 3 December 2012 1 year, 8 months 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 9.00 am to Registering on the Hammerson Share Portal website enables Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 1 May 2013 2 years, 1 month 5.30 pm Monday to Friday or 44 0 20 8639 3405 from overseas.
shareholders to view their shareholding in the Company, including an 1 email: ips@capita.
co. uk Judy Gibbons 1 May 2011 1 May 2011 1 month indicative share price and valuation, a transaction audit trail and Further details can be found at: 2 dividend payment history.
Shareholders can also amend certain John Hirst 1 March 2004 1 May 2013 Retiring at the end of 2014 AGM http: international.
com standing data relating to their accounts.
David Tyler 12 January 2013 12 January 2013 1 year, 10 months Anthony Watson 1 February 2006 1 February 2012 10 months Notes 1.
Judy Gibbons appointment has been extended for three years with effect from 1 May 2014.
John Hirsts appointment was renewed for a further period to expire at the end of the 2014 AGM.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company welcomes dialogue with its significant shareholders and seeks their views when major changes are being made to remuneration policy.
Recently, following feedback from representatives of shareholders, the accumulation period for dividends on shares held in the LTIP and DBSS schemes was shortened to cover only the period from the date of grant of the award to vesting for awards from 2014 onwards.
com 183 86 86 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Capita share dealing services UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation An online and telephone dealing facility is available, providing As a UK REIT, Hammerson plc is exempt from corporation tax on rental shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service.
income and gains on UK investment properties but is required to pay There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms Property Income Distributions PIDs.
UK shareholders will be taxed to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows shareholders on PIDs received at their full marginal tax rates.
A REIT may in addition to trade real time at a known price that will be given to them at the pay normal dividends.
time they give their instruction.
This is subject to a credit check for For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting withholding shareholders dealing in shares valued at more than the sterling tax at the basic rate.
However, certain categories of shareholder are equivalent of 15,000. entitled to receive PIDs without withholding tax, principally UK resident For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, companies, UK public bodies, UK pension funds and managers of please call Capita on 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p per minute plus ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Further information on UK REITs is network extras, lines are open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm Monday to Friday, available on the Companys website, including a form to be used or 44 0 20 3367 2686 from overseas.
by shareholders to certify if they qualify to receive PIDs without withholding tax.
com Unsolicited mail Hammerson is obliged by law to make its share register available Discontinuation of Interim Management Statements on request to other organisations.
This may result in shareholders Following recent changes to EU regulation on financial disclosure, receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the receipt of unsolicited mail the Financial Conduct Authority FCA has removed its requirement for shareholders may register with the Mailing Preference Service, UK companies to publish Interim Management Statements IMSs.
As a an independent organisation whose services are free, by visiting result, and reflecting the long term nature of Hammersons business, www.
Once a shareholders name and address the Board has taken the decision to cease publication of formal IMSs details have been registered, it will advise the companies and other in April and November.
The Group remains committed to full and bodies that subscribe to the service not to send unsolicited mail to transparent disclosure and will continue with full-year and half-year the address registered.
announcements as well as a comprehensive capital markets events in the autumn.
Shareholder security Share fraud includes scams where fraudsters cold-call investors offering ShareGift them overpriced, worthless or non-existent shares, or offer to buy Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes shares owned by investors at an inflated price.
We advise shareholders it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to to be vigilant of unsolicited mail or telephone calls regarding buying or charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr selling shares.
For more information visit: www.
uk scams or call Mackintosh Foundation Limited registered charity number: 1052686, the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. registered company number: 3150478.
Further information about ShareGift is available at: www.
uk or by writing to ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited, 17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH or by telephone on 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Website The Annual Report and other information that shareholders may find useful are available on the Companys website: www.
The Company operates a service whereby all registered users can choose to receive via email notice of all Company announcements which can also be viewed on the website.
184 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 OTHER INFORMATION Financial Calendar and Share Analysis Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 22 April 2015 at 10 Grosvenor Street, London, W1K 4BJ.
Details of the Meeting and the resolutions to be voted upon can be found in the Notice of Meeting which is available at www.
Where a shareholder elected to receive the scrip alternative, the dividend was treated as a non-PID.
The PID element of the dividend is paid net of a 20% withholding tax unless a shareholder is eligible to receive the payment gross.
