Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 117 1 Accounting policies continued Lease incentives Lease incentives including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis, if applicable.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market based criteria will not be met.
Investment property Investment properties and investment properties under development are professionally valued quarterly on a fair value basis by qualified external valuers and the directors must ensure that they are satisfied that the valuation of the Groups properties is appropriate for inclusion in the accounts without adjustment.
The valuations of investment properties and investment properties under development have been prepared in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards 2012 the Red Book.
For investment property, this approach involves applying market-derived capitalisation yields to current and market-derived future income streams with appropriate adjustments for income voids arising from vacancies or rent-free periods.
These capitalisation yields and future income streams are derived from comparable property and leasing transactions and are considered to be the key inputs in the valuation.
Other factors that are taken into account in the valuations include the tenure of the property, tenancy details, planning, building and environmental factors that might affect the property.
In the case of investment property under development, the approach applied is the residual method of valuation, which is the investment method of valuation as described above with a deduction for the costs necessary to complete the development, together with an allowance for the remaining risk.
Trading property Trading property is being developed for sale or being held for sale after development is complete, and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct expenditure and capitalised interest.
Costs of sale are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings over three to five years.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where, in the directors judgement, the Group has joint control of the entity.
The Groups level of control in its joint ventures is driven both by the individual agreements which set out how control is shared by the partners and how that control is exercised in practice.
The Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Balances with partners owed to or from the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint venture profits and losses are included in the Group income statement in a single line.
All of the Groups joint ventures adopt the accounting policies of the Group for inclusion in the Group financial statements.
