STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 79, confirm to the best of their knowledge: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any they have complied with the above requirements in preparing time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the financial statements which give a true and fair view of the theassets of the Company, for taking reasonable steps for the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation for the preparation of a Directors report and the report of the taken as a whole: Remuneration Committee which comply with the requirements the adoption of a going concern basis for the preparation of the Companies Act 2006. of the financial statements continues to be appropriate The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual based on the foregoing and having reviewed the forecast reportand the financial statements in accordance with the financial position of the Group: and Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also required to the strategic report includes a fair review of the development prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance and performance of the business and the position of the withInternational Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation asadopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Regulation.
TheDirectors have chosen to prepare financial risks and uncertainties that they face.
statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, Group financial statements taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
and Companys financial position, financial performance Financial statements are published on the Groups website andcash flows.
This requires the faithful representation inaccordance with legislation in the United Kingdom oftheeffects of transactions, other events and conditions governingthe preparation and dissemination of financial inaccordance with the definitions and recognition criteria statements, which may vary from legislation in other forassets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually responsibility alsoextends to the ongoing integrity of the all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by financial statements contained therein.
compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting On behalf of the Board.
policies: JOHN D. BURNS, make judgements and accounting estimates that are CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER reasonable and prudent: present information, including accounting policies, in a DAMIAN M. A. WISNIEWSKI, manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable FINANCE DIRECTOR andunderstandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 26 FEBRUARY 2015 specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 81
