154 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Glossary Building Research Establishment Environmental Non-PIDs Assessment Methodology BREEAM Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Building Research Establishment method of assessing, rating and certifying the sustainability of buildings.
Core West End Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied tothe Earnings Per Share EPS projected cash flows from the portfolio would result inanetpresent Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number ofordinary value of zero.
Property Income Distributions PIDs EPRA adjustments Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV as setout rental business.
by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA intheir BestPractice and Policy Recommendations.
REIT UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Estimated Rental Value ERV Rent roll The market rental value of lettable space as estimated The annual contracted rental income.
bytheCompanys valuers at each balance sheet date.
Reversionary or under-rented Fair value Investment property The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, togetherwith The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which the estimated rental value of vacant space.
aproperty should exchange on the date of valuation between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction Reversionary yield after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once therent knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
withmarket practice, values are stated net of purchasers costs.
Total Property Return TPR IPD Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company that fromholding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
expressed as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
IPD central London Total Shareholder Return TSR An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London properties in their March annual valued universes.
Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning Like-for-like portfolio of the period.
Properties that have been held for the whole of the period of account.
Triple net asset value NNNAV Loan To Value LTV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial Total bank loans, private placement notes, convertible bonds at liabilities on a diluted basis.
nominal value and debenture stock, net ofcash including our share True equivalent yield of jointventures balances, expressed asapercentage of the market The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows value ofthe property portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
from an investment property, including current rent, reversions tocurrent market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV equates to the market value having taken into account notional Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
at the balance sheet date.
Vacancy rate Net gearing The element of a property which is unoccupied but available Total Group borrowings including the convertible bonds at nominal forletting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided value less short-term deposits and cash as apercentage of equity bytheERV of the total portfolio.
shareholders funds, calculated in accordance with our bank covenants.
Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT Net initial yield The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed in years.
Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation having added notional purchasers costs.
