112 F Fiina nan nc cia iall S Stta atte em me en ntts s NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU Endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRIC Interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
In addition, the Group has also followed best practice recommendations issued by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA as appropriate.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the Financial Review on page 61.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption offered by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present a separate income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the Company.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of properties, available-for-sale investments and certain financial assets and liabilities including derivatives.
These financial statements are presented in sterling since that is the currency in which the majority of the Groups transactions are denominated.
The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised May 2011 Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised May 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not significantly impacted these financial statements with the exception of IFRS 12 resulting in more extensive disclosure in the consolidated financial statements see Note 7.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRIC 21 Levies Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
The Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has beencompleted.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and the Group, plus the Groups share of the results and net assets of the joint ventures.
The Company holds investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
A joint venture is a contract under which the Group and other parties undertake an activity or invest in an entity, under joint control.
The Group uses equity accounting for such entities, carrying its investment at cost plus the movement in the Groups share of net assets after acquisition, less impairment.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
