Financial statements Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31August 2014 Year ended Year ended 31August 31August 2014 2013 Note 000 000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 101,916 67,243 Adjustments for: Straight lining of rental income 1,064 620 Sharebased payment incentive fee 9 6,430 Sharebased payment capital instrument 27 803 Sharebased payment PSP 32 456 Net fair value gain loss on investment property and assets held for sale 17, 22 49,814 20,721 Foreign exchange gain 576 4,352 Net gain from financial assets and liabilities 10 751 44,944 Gain on legal extinguishment of debt 11 44,924 Equity accounted profit 12 3,926 11,106 Write down and amortisation of intangible asset 23 22,962 Depreciation 8 56 Investment income 6 10,159 2,511 Interest income 14 8,056 12,106 Interest expense 15 42,308 37,960 Impairment of goodwill 13 2,069 Gain on sale of subsidiaries 43 17,285 Cash generated by operations 52,625 41,473 Changes in working capital 986 6,381 Cash flow from operations 51,639 47,854 Interest income 17,041 5,953 Interest paid 49,752 30,080 Taxation paid 2,928 1,923 Investment income 10,159 2,511 Distributions from associates and joint ventures 20, 21 1,677 12,554 Net cash generated from operating activities 27,836 36,869 Redefine International P. L. C. 76 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Year ended Year ended 31August 31August 2014 2013 Note 000 000 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of investment properties 17, 22 117,009 34,187 Disposal of investment properties 17, 22 23,632 10,383 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 129 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20, 21 43,709 Disposal of shares in associate net of costs 52,270 Net cash outflow on business combinations and acquisition of subsidiaries 40, 41 5,745 16,792 Net cash outflow on settlement of CMC deferred consideration 11,512 Disposal of subsidiaries net cash disposed 1,337 Loss of control of Gamma 6,042 Net decrease increase in loans to joint ventures 374 38,728 Net increase in loans to related parties 441 1,465 Net decrease increase in loans to other parties 9,965 5,147 Decrease increase in longterm receivables 102,263 5,458 Disposal of investments at fair value 35,646 Increase decrease in restricted cash balances 2,552 8,063 Acquisition of noncontrolling interest 6,440 Net cash generated utilised in investing activities 28,052 82,149 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from loans and borrowings 79,309 95,820 Repayment of loans and borrowings 131,076 127,480 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 22,558 27,530 Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests 96 Repayment of capital instrument 15,339 Proceeds from issue of share capital 86,464 127,500 Share issue costs 1,046 5,025 Increase in contribution from noncontrolling shareholders 1,974 6,547 Purchase of interest rate cap 2,495 Net cash generated from financing activities 4,767 69,736 Net increase in cash 51,121 24,456 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 3,062 561 Opening cash 29,598 5,703 Net cash at end of year 25 83,781 29,598 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Redefine International P. L. C. 77 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31August 2014 1.
General information Redefine International P. L. C. was incorporated on 28 June 2004 under the laws of the Isle of Man.
Following approval from the South African Reserve Bank in July 2013, the Company concluded an inward listing on the JSE.
The Company now holds a primary listing on the Main Market of the LSE and a secondary listing on the Main Board oftheJSE.
On 4 December 2013 the Company converted to a UK Real Estate Investment Trust and moved its tax residence from the Isle of Man to the UK.
New Articles of Association were adopted by the Company in the period and it converted to an Isle of Man Companies Act2006 company with effect from 3 December 2013.
Significant accounting policies 2.1 Statement of compliance These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The accounting policies applied by the Group in these consolidated financial statements are the same as those applied by the Group in its audited financial statements as at and for the year ended 31August 2013, except for the new standards adopted during the year and the additional policies adopted due to the changes in the business during the year.
New standards adopted during the period The following new standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and have been adopted during the year: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IAS 28 Investments in Associates: IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits: and IFRS 7 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
IAS 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income As a result of the amendments to IAS 1, the Group has modified the presentation of items of other comprehensive income in its consolidated statement of comprehensive income, to present separately items that would be reclassified to profit or loss in the future from those that would never be.
Comparative information has also been represented accordingly.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements The adoption of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 resulted in revised accounting policies for Investments in Subsidiaries, Business Combinations and Joint Arrangements.
The adoption of IFRS 10 and 11 had no material impact on the Group.
The new policies are detailed in Notes 2.4.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements, when such measurements are required or permitted by other IFRS.
In particular, it unifies the definition of fair value as the price at which an orderly transaction to sell an asset or to transfer a liability would take place between market participants at the measurement date.
It also replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively, and has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures.
Notwithstanding the above, thechange had no significant impact on the measurements of the Groups assets and liabilities.
Redefine International P. L. C. 78 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Other amendments The adoption of revisions to IAS 28 Investments in Associates, IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits as well as the adoption of IFRS 7 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities had no significant impact on the financial statements.
The Group also adopted IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities which resulted in increased disclosure requirements in respect of noncontrolling interests and interest in other entities.
Redefine International also acquired RIMH during the year thereby internalising the management function of the Company.
This resulted in changes to the Groups business and necessitated the adoption of certain new accounting policies including those in respect of: plant and equipment as detailed in Note 2.7: and employee benefits and employee sharebased payments as detailed in Note 2.23.
2.2 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Great British Pounds, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of the Group, rounded to the nearest thousand pounds.
They are prepared using the historical cost basis except for investment property, derivative financial instruments and financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
2.3 Key judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of judgements and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the reporting date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period reported.
Although these estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The principal areas where such judgements and estimates have been made are: 2.3.
1 Investment property valuation The Group uses the valuations prepared by its independent valuers in accordance with IFRS 13 as the fair value of its investment properties.
The valuations are based upon assumptions including estimated rental values, future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and appropriate discount rates.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Further details are provided in Note 3.3.
2 Fair value of restructured or acquired liabilities New borrowings or borrowings which have been substantially modified are recognised at fair value.
The determination of fair value involves the application of judgement.
The Group determines fair value by discounting cash flows associated with the liability at a market discount rate.
The key judgement surrounds the determination of an appropriate market discount rate.
Management determine the discount rate on a loan by loan basis having regard to the term, duration and security arrangements of the new liability and an estimation of the current rates charged in the market for similar instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
This judgement is made more difficult given the bespoke nature of certain loans obtained by the Group.
Any difference between the nominal value of the loan and the deemed fair value will be accreted through profit or loss over the term of the loan through the effective interest rate.
3 Classification of investment property for hotels The hotel properties are held for capital appreciation and to earn rental income.
The hotel properties included within the Redefine Hotel Holdings portfolio have been let to RHML and RECML for a fixed rent which is subject to annual review.
Theannual review takes into account the forecast EBITDA for the hotel portfolio when setting the revised rental level.
RHMLand RECML operate the hotel business and are exposed to the fluctuations in the underlying trading performance of the hotels.
They are responsible for the day to day upkeep of the properties and retain the key decision making responsibility for the business.
As part of the acquisition of RIMH in December 2013, Redefine International acquired a 33.0% shareholding in RedefineBDL which in turn owns RHML and RECML.
The shareholding was subsequently diluted to 25.3% with effect from 1 May 2014 following the issue of additional shares by RedefineBDL to Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited.
Having considered the guidance in IFRS 10, the respective rights of each of the shareholders in RedefineBDL and the size of the Companys shareholding compared with other shareholders, management have determined that Redefine International does not control RedefineBDL and hence does not control RHML or RECML.
Aside from the payment of rental income to Redefine International which resets annually and the Groups shareholding in RedefineBDL, Redefine International is not involved with the hotel business and there are limited transactions between the two entities.
As a result, Redefine International classifies the hotel properties as investment properties in line with IAS 40.
Redefine International P. L. C. 79 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.3 Key judgements and estimates continued 2.3.
4 Classification of the Groups investment in Cromwell at fair value through profit or loss The Group ceased to account for Cromwell as an associate in April 2013 from the date its shareholding fell below 20%.
While the Company does not have a right to appoint a director, it does currently have Board representation.
Having considered all the facts and circumstances the Directors believe that significant influence over Cromwell does not exist andthat the designation of the Companys residual investment at fair value through profit or loss is appropriate.
5 Property acquisitions Where properties are acquired through the acquisition of corporate interests, the Directors have regard to the substance of the assets and activities of the acquired entity in determining whether the acquisition represents the acquisition of abusiness.
Where such acquisitions are not judged to be an acquisition of a business, the transactions are accounted for as if the Group had acquired the underlying property directly.
Accordingly, no goodwill arises, rather the cost of the corporate entity is allocated between the identifiable assets and liabilities of the entity based on their relative fair values at the acquisition date.
Otherwise corporate acquisitions are accounted for as business combinations.
1 Investment in subsidiaries A subsidiary undertaking is an investee controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an investee when it has power over the investee, is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Subsidiaries are consolidated in the Groups financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group reassesses whether it controls a subsidiary when facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more elements of control.
Loss of control If the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the Group: a derecognises the assets including any goodwill and liabilities of the former subsidiary at their carrying amounts at the date control is lost: b derecognises the carrying amount of any noncontrolling interests in the former subsidiary at the date control is lost including amounts of other comprehensive income attributed to noncontrolling interests : c recognises the fair value of any consideration received: d reclassifies to profit or loss, or transfers directly to retained earnings, amounts recognised in OCI in relation to the subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities: e recognises any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its fair value at the date when control is lost: and f recognises any resulting difference of the above items as a gain or loss in the income statement.
The Group subsequently accounts for any investment retained in the former subsidiary in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments, or when appropriate, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
2 Business combinations The Group accounts for the acquisition of businesses using the acquisition method.
Under the acquisition method, theconsideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of: the acquisition date fair value of assets transferred by the Group: liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree: and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of: the fair value of the consideration transferred: the amount of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree: and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any: less the net of the acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
For each business combination, the Group recognises any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value: or at their proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Redefine International P. L. C. 80 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements For changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control, the Group adjusts the carrying amounts of the controlling and noncontrolling interests to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Thedifference between the change in value of the noncontrolling interest and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the equity holders of the parent.
Consistent accounting policies are applied throughout the Group for the purposes of consolidation.
3 Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
4 Investment in associates and joint ventures Associates are entities over whose financial and operating policies the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the Groups rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangements.
When making this assessment, the Group considers the structure of the arrangements, the legal form of any separate vehicles, the contractual terms of the arrangements and other facts and circumstances.
Investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are initially recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the Groups share of the postacquisition net income or loss, and other movements reflected directly in the other comprehensive income or equity of the associated undertaking.
Where the Group acquires an additional shareholding such that it becomes a subsidiary or where it obtains significant influence such that an investment which was previously accounted for as an investment under IAS 39 is now to be treated as an associate undertaking, the Groups previously held interest is remeasured to fair value through profit or loss for the period.
The cost of the associate is determined as the fair value of the original investment plus the fair value of any additional consideration given to achieve significant influence.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associated undertaking or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture has reduced the carrying amount to zero, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations tomake payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
The Groups share of the results of associate undertakings or joint ventures after tax reflects the Groups proportionate interest in the relevant undertaking and is based on financial statements drawn up to a date not earlier than three months before the period end reporting date, adjusted to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Since goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the investment in an associate or joint venture is not recognised separately, it is not tested for impairment separately.
Instead, the entire amount of the investment in an associate or joint venture is tested for impairment as a single asset when there is objective evidence that the investment in an associate or joint venture may be impaired.
Reversals of impairments are recorded as an adjustment to the investment balance to the extent that the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture increases.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entities.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate or joint control over a joint venture, it is accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in that investee, with a resulting gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
Any interest retained in that former investee at the date when significant influence or joint control is lost is recognised at fair value and this amount is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of a financial asset or, when appropriate, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate.
Associates and joint ventures are carried at cost less impairments in the Company financial statements.
Any gain or loss on the dilution of an interest in an equityaccounted investee is calculated as the difference between the carrying amounts of the investment in the equityaccounted investee, immediately before and after the transaction that resulted in the dilution and is recognised in profit or loss.
5 Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill and intangible assets are carried at cost less impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investments the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any underlying asset, including goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the investee.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in profit or loss on a straightline basis over their estimated useful life, from the date that they are available for use.
Redefine International P. L. C. 81 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.5 Currency translation reserve 2.5.
1 Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates that the values are determined.
2 Foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve FCTR.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
On consolidation, the statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries and associates are translated at the closing rate and the income statement and statement of comprehensive income are translated at the rates at the dates of the transaction or at an average rate for the period where this is a reasonable approximation.
2.6 Investment property Investment properties are those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both.
Investment properties are stated at fair value.
External, independent valuation companies, having professionally qualified valuers and recent experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolios on an annual basis.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably and without compulsion.
The valuations are prepared by considering comparable market transactions for sales and letting and having regard for the current leases in place.
In the case of lettings this includes considering the aggregate of the net annual market rents receivable from the properties and where relevant, associated costs.
A yield which reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flows is applied to the net annual rentals to arrive at the property valuation.
As the fair value model is applied, property under construction or redevelopment for future use as investment property is measured at fair value.
However, where the fair value of investment property under redevelopment is not reliably measurable, the property is measured at cost.
Property held under leases for the same purpose is also classified as investment property, accounted for as held under a finance lease and initially recognised at the sum of any premium paid on acquisition and the present value of any further minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the superior leaseholder is included in the consolidated statement offinancial position as a finance lease obligation.
Thereafter investment property is measured at fair value, which reflects market conditions at the reporting date.
For the purposes of the historical financial information, the assessed fair value is: reduced by the carrying amount of any accrued income and expense resulting from the spreading of lease incentives and or minimum lease payments: and increased by the carrying amount of any liability to the superior leaseholder included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
The annual valuations of investment property are based upon estimates and subjective judgements that may vary from the actual values and sales prices that may be realised by the Group upon ultimate disposal.
The critical assumptions made relating to valuations have been disclosed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in the profit or loss in the year in which they arise.
Profits or losses on the disposal of investment property are recognised at contract completion for thedisposal.
Disposals of investment properties are recognised on completion and the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between the sale proceeds and the latest carrying value of the property after adding attributable costs of thedisposal.
1 Borrowing costs and cost of construction All costs directly associated with the purchase and construction of a property are capitalised.
Borrowing costs are capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when the activities to prepare the asset are in progress and expenditures and borrowing costs are being incurred.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs may continue until the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
If the resulting carrying amount of the asset exceeds its value, an impairment loss is recognised.
The capitalisation rate is arrived at by reference to the actual rate payable on borrowings for development purposes or, with regard to that part of the development cost financed out of general funds, to the average rate.
Redefine International P. L. C. 82 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 2.7 Plant and equipment Items of plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of items less their estimated residual values using the straightline method over their estimated useful lives and is generally recognised in profit or loss.
Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Plant and equipment is depreciated over a period of between two to five years.
2.8 Financial instruments recognition, classification and measurement Nonderivative financial instruments Nonderivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Nonderivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not designated at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs, except as described below.
Loan receivables and payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A financial instrument is recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised if the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire or if the Group transfers the financial assets to another party without retaining control or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset.
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date, i. e. the date that the Group commits itself to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised if the Groups obligations specified in the contract expire.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are designated as fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
Upon initial recognition, attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss comprise equity securities and are measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement.
Fair values are determined by reference to their quoted bid price at the reporting date.
Investments in investment property funds are recorded at the net asset value per share reported by the managers of such funds, which is considered the best estimate of fair value.
Derivative financial instruments The Group holds derivative financial instruments to manage its interest rate risk exposures.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for in profit or loss and disclosed in losses gains from financial assets and liabilities.
2.9 Finance leases Finance leases, which are the ground rents payable to the superior landlord on leasehold properties, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged through profit or loss as they arise.
2.10 Impairment A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
Objective evidence that financial assets including equity securities are impaired can include default or delinquency by a debtor, restructuring of an amount due to the Group on terms that the Group would not consider otherwise, indications that a debtor or issuer will enter bankruptcy, adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers in the Group, economic conditions that correlate with defaults or the disappearance of an active market for a security.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account against loans and receivables.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised.
When a subsequent event e. g. repayment by a debtor causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Redefine International P. L. C. 83 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.11 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances on hand, cash deposited with financial institutions and shortterm call deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents have a maturity of less than three months.
Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which are restricted until the fulfilment of certain conditions.
2.12 Share capital Ordinary share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares net of tax are shown as a deduction from equity.
Treasury shares When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
The shares are available for reissue in thefuture.
2.13 Leasehold property Leasehold properties that are leased out to tenants under operating leases are classified as investment properties as appropriate, and are included in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Land interests held under an operating lease are classified and accounted for as investment property on a property by property basis when they are held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation on both the land and the property elements.
Anysuch property interest under an operating lease classified as investment property is carried at fair value.
2.14 Loans and borrowings Interestbearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestbearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Finance costs Finance costs recognised in the income statement comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method.
Restructured debt A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished i. e. it is discharged, cancelled or expires which may happen when a payment is made to the lender, the borrower legally is released from primary responsibility for the financial liability or where there is an exchange of debt instruments with substantially different terms or a substantial modification of the terms of an existing debt instrument.
In the event of a substantial modification in terms, any difference between the carrying amount of the original liability and the consideration paid is recognised in profit or loss.
The consideration paid includes nonfinancial assets transferred and the assumption of liabilities, including the new modified financial liability.
Any new financial liability recognised is measured initially at fair value.
Any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on extinguishment and do not adjust the carrying amount of the new liability.
2.15 Dividends Dividends to shareholders are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when declared and paid by the Directors.
In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders at a generalmeeting.
2.16 Rental income Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the leases.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income and amortised over the term of the leases.
Contingent rental income is recognised as it arises.
Premiums to terminate leases are recognised in profit or loss as theyarise.
2.17 Service charges Where the Group invoices service charges, these amounts are not recognised as income as the risks in relation to the provision of these goods and services are primarily borne by the Groups customers and consequently they are recognised as a reduction in expenses.
Any servicing expenses suffered by the Group are included within property operating expenses in the income statement.
Redefine International P. L. C. 84 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 2.18 Investment income Dividends from listed property investments are recognised on the date the Groups right to receive payment is established.
Interest earned on cash invested with financial institutions is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest ratemethod.
2.19 Income tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
Deferred tax is provided using the statement of financial position liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: those arising from goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, those arising from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting or taxable profit, nor differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent described below.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised and is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will berealised.
Deferred tax is not provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures where the timing of the reversal can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeablefuture.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled.
Deferred tax on the fair value adjustment on investment properties and listed securities has been provided at the capital gains taxation rate based on the manner in which each asset is expected to be realised.
Deferred taxation liabilities are provided only to the extent that there are not sufficient tax losses to shield the charge.
2.20 Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
In line with JSE requirements, the Group also presents headline earnings per share.
In calculating headline earnings per share headline earnings include fair value adjustments for financial liabilities and accounting adjustments required to account for lease income on a straightline basis, as well as other noncash accounting adjustments that do not affect .
2.21 Segment reporting An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and in respect of which it may incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to the transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available Note 4.
2.22 Capital instrument A financial instrument or its component parts is classified on initial recognition as a financial liability, a financial asset or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is classified as equity where there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another party, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under potentially unfavourable conditions for the issuer of the instrument or where the instrument will or may be settled for a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments.
Equity instruments are recognised initially at their fair value with any directly attributable costs allocated to the instrument.
The equity instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Payments in relation to the capital instrument that are settled in equity shares are deemed to be sharebased payments and are recorded in the income statement due to the unavoidable nature of the obligation.
Redefine International P. L. C. 85 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 2.
Significant accounting policies continued 2.23 Employee benefits and employee sharebased payments Employee benefits, such as salaries and other benefits, are accounted for on an accruals basis over the period during which employees have provided services.
Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably.
Sharebased incentives are provided to employees under the Groups LongTerm Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Restricted Stock Plan for employees.
The Group recognises a compensation cost in respect of these schemes that is based on the fair value of the awards, measured using the Monte Carlo valuation methodology.
For equitysettled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modified.
For cashsettled schemes, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and is remeasured at each reporting date until the liability is settled.
Generally, the compensation cost is recognised on a straightline basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reflect expected and actual forfeitures during the vesting period due to the failure to satisfy service conditions or nonmarket performance conditions.
2.24 Disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale A noncurrent asset or a disposal group comprising assets and liabilities is classified as held for sale if it is expected that its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable to occur within one year.
For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group.
Where the Group is committed to a sale plan involving the loss of control of a subsidiary it classifies all the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary as held for sale when the criteria set out above and detailed in IFRS 5 Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a noncontrolling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
On initial classification as held for sale, generally, noncurrent assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of the previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, with any adjustments taken to the income statement.
Thesame applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
However, certain items such as financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 and investment property in the scope of IAS 40 continue to be measured in accordance with thosestandards.
Impairment losses subsequent to classification of assets as held for sale are recognised in the income statement.
Increases in fair value less costs to sell of assets that have been classified as held for sale are recognised in the income statement to the extent that the increase is not in excess of any cumulative impairment loss previously recognised in respect of the asset.
Assets classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
Gains and losses on remeasurement and impairment losses subsequent to classification as disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale are shown within continuing operations in the income statement, unless they qualify as discontinued operations.
Disposal groups and noncurrent assets held for sale are presented separately from other assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Prior periods are not reclassified.
2.25 Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
2.26 Consideration Consideration associated with the acquisition of assets and liabilities to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
A subsequent change to the fair value of the consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
2.27 Standards not yet effective A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 September 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
Redefine International P. L. C. 86 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except thefollowing: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Versions of IFRS 9 were issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
The final version of IFRS 9 issued in 2014 will replace IAS 39 except for the references to portfolio hedging.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value through profit or loss, measurement at fair value through OCI and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
IFRS 9 also introduces a new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment of financial assets and new general hedge accounting requirements.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and the Board is currently assessing its potential impact on the Group financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Investment Entities These amendments define an investment entity and introduce an exception to consolidating particular subsidiaries for investment entities.
They require an investment entity to measure those subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments in its consolidated and separate financial statements.
The amendments also introduce new disclosure requirements for investment entities in IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
Entities are required to apply the amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Board is currently assessing the impact of these amendments on the Group financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, on the recoverable amount disclosures for nonfinancial assets.
This amendment removed certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The standard is not mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014.
The Board is currently assessing the impact of this amendment on the Group financial statements.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts, IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes and IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and the Board is currently assessing its potential impact on the Group financial statements.
The following new or amended standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IFRS 11 : Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 : and Annual improvements to IFRS 2010 2012 cycle and 2011 2013 cycle.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
Redefine International P. L. C. 87 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 3.
Financial risk management continued The Groups risk management policies require the identification and analysis of the risks faced by the Group, the setting of appropriate risk limits and controls, and the monitoring of risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly and adjusted to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group Audit Committee oversees managements monitoring of compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
3.1 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from tenants.
1 Trade and other receivables The Group is exposed to concentrations of sectored credit risk.
Concentrations of tenant risk exist in each individual property portfolio.
The Board of Directors monitors the concentration of credit risk with individual tenants and counterparties across the portfolio.
The level of concentration is addressed both with regards to the sector of property, the industry in which the tenant operates and the credit history of the tenant customer.
An allowance is made where there is an identified loss event which is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows Note 33.
2 Cash and cash equivalents The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only investing in liquid deposits and only with counterparties that have a credit rating of A or A2 or above from Standard & Poors or Moodys, except where specific exemptions are granted by the Board.
Given the credit quality, management does not expect any counterparty to fail to meet its obligations.
Cash transactions are limited to highcreditquality financial institutions.
The Board of Directors monitors the exposure of the Group to any one financial institution and ensures that this is limited by diversification of deposits and lending from each institution across theportfolio.
3 Loan counterparties The Group limits its exposure to loan counterparty risk by firstly, diversifying its property related loans over a number of high credit rated financial institutions and secondly, only enters into single interest rate cap or swap agreements with the respective financial institution providing the loan.
3.2 Liquidity risk The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient rental income to service its financial obligations when they fall due.
The monitoring of liquidity risk is assisted by the monthly review of financial covenants imposed by financial institutions, such as interest and loan to value covenant ratios.
Renegotiation of loans takes place in advance of any potential covenant breaches in so far as the factors are within the control of the Board.
In periods of increased market uncertainty the Board will ensure sufficient cash resources are available for potential loan repayments cash deposits as may be required by financial institutions.
3.3 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its investments in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Group enters into derivative financial instruments in the ordinary course of business, and incurs financial liabilities, in order to manage market risks.
The Board of Directors receives reports on a quarterly basis with regards to currency exposures as well as interest rate spreads and takes the necessary steps to hedge limit the risk the Group is exposed to.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting Note 28, 29 and 34.
1 Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Euro EUR, Australian Dollar AUD and Swiss Franc CHF.
Foreign exchange risk arises from current exposures the Group has to foreign currencies, recognised monetary assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups investments in foreign subsidiaries and associates are not hedged as the currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
Hedging is taken out on quarterly AUD income from Cromwell as and when the Board deems it appropriate.
See Note 35 for further details.
Redefine International P. L. C. 88 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 3.3.
2 Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to the risk of the changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups longterm debt obligations with floating interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate derivatives to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
At the year end, as a result of the use of interest rate swaps and caps, the majority of the Groups borrowings was at fixed interest rates.
The Groups EPRA earnings has limited exposure to interest rate fluctuations until the repayment dates of the loans for which the interest rate swaps and caps have been arranged.
Please see Note 29 for further details on the Groups interest rate swap and cap agreements.
3 Equity price risk Equity price risk arises from the Groups investment in Cromwell.
This investment is held at fair value.
The performance of Cromwell and its share price is actively monitored and managed on a fair value basis.
If the share price decreased by 5% the investment value would decrease by 4.9m.
4 Commercial property price risk The Board draws attention to the risks associated with commercial property investments.
Although over the longterm property is considered a low risk asset, investors must be aware that significant short and mediumterm risk factors are inherent in the asset class.
Investments in property are relatively illiquid and usually more difficult to realise than listed equities or bonds and this restricts the Groups ability to realise value in cash in the short term.
Determining an appropriate fair value also requires judgement.
Details of the methodologies applied are provided in Note 17.
3.4 Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding noncontrolling interests, and the dividends paid to ordinary shareholders.
At the 2014 AGM the Company received the necessary authorisation from shareholders to purchase its own shares on the market, subject to such shares being cancelled immediately upon acquisition.
The timing of purchases will depend on market conditions and purchase and sale decisions will be made on a transaction by transaction basis by the Board of Directors.
No share purchases took place in the period.
The Group does not have a defined share buyback plan.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed regulatory capital requirements.
The level of the Companys borrowings, in terms of its Articles of Association, shall not at any time, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company exceed ten times the aggregate of: i. the amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company: and ii.
the total of capital and revenue reserves.
The Companys dividend policy is to distribute the majority of its earnings available for distribution in the form of dividends toshareholders.
Segmental reporting The Groups identified reportable segments are set out below.
These segments are generally managed by separate management teams.
As required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the information provided to the Board, which is the ChiefOperating Decision Maker, can be classified into the following segments: UK Commercial: the Groups portfolio of offices, motor trade and roadside service stations: UK Retail: the Groups portfolio of seven whollyowned shopping centres: UK Hotels: the Groups hotel properties comprising eight hotels in Greater London and the South East: RedefineBDL: the Groups 25.3% shareholding in RedefineBDL.
RedefineBDL leases and manages all of the Groups hotel properties except for the Enfield Travelodge: Europe: the Groups properties in Continental Europe, located primarily in Germany but also in Switzerland and the Netherlands.
The portfolio comprises shopping centres, discount supermarkets and governmentlet offices: and Cromwell: relates to the Groups investment in the Cromwell Property Group, Australia.
Redefine International P. L. C. 89 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 4.
Segmental reporting continued Relevant revenue, asset and capital expenditure information is set out below: i Information about reportable segments Redefine Commercial Retail Hotels BDL Europe Cromwell Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 For the year ended 31August 2014 Rental income 17,279 21,807 11,350 15,745 66,181 Investment income 10,159 10,159 Net fair value gain loss on investment property and assets held for sale 14,844 15,831 20,608 1,469 49,814 Net gain loss from financial assets and liabilities 221 7,671 514 2,123 5,532 751 Gain on legal extinguishment of debt 44,924 44,924 Equity accounted profit 749 3,177 3,926 Interest income 157 1,802 3,346 312 5,617 Interest expense senior debt 6,491 11,113 3,870 6,056 2,369 29,899 Property operating expenses 111 2,903 19 1,212 4,245 Total per reportable segments 70,823 33,095 31,929 749 8,374 2,258 147,228 Investment property 131,805 346,117 193,950 220,674 892,546 Assets held for sale 51,850 51,850 Investments designated at fair value 292 2,061 9 97,803 100,165 Investment in joint ventures 15,163 15,163 Investment in associates 7,967 7,967 Longterm receivables 2,067 2,067 Borrowings senior debt 135,230 206,115 95,624 160,198 28,218 625,385 For the year ended 31August 2013 Rental income 24,748 8,540 10,622 7,497 51,407 Investment income 2,511 2,511 Net fair value loss gain on investment property and assets held for sale 15,217 2,715 622 7,597 20,721 Gain loss from financial assets and liabilities 2,141 279 1,416 514 41,152 44,944 Gain on sale of subsidiaries 82 17,203 17,285 Equity accounted gain loss 313 1,930 615 13,338 11,106 Interest income 1,448 5,979 3,505 2 25 10,959 Interest expense senior debt 8,557 4,104 3,938 3,251 2,370 22,220 Property operating expenses 1,024 1,850 9 562 3,445 Total per reportable segments 3,934 9,071 10,974 13,191 54,656 91,826 Investment property 137,327 117,010 150,725 238,830 643,892 Assets held for sale 57,250 57,250 Investments designated at fair value 72 66 45 138,909 139,092 Investment in joint ventures 15,150 15,150 Longterm receivables 17,577 49,790 36,561 103,928 Borrowings senior debt 184,568 72,792 85,903 176,772 34,522 554,557 Redefine International P. L. C. 91 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 4.
Segmental reporting continued ii Reconciliation of reportable segment profit or loss 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Rental income Total rental income for reported segments 66,181 51,407 Profit or loss Net fair value gain loss on investment property and assets held for sale 49,814 20,721 Investment income 10,159 2,511 Net gain from financial assets and liabilities 751 44,944 Gain on legal extinguishment of debt 44,924 Gain on sale of subsidiaries 17,285 Equity accounted profit 3,926 11,106 Interest income 5,617 10,959 Interest expense senior debt 29,899 22,220 Property operating expenses 4,245 3,445 Total profit per reportable segments 147,228 91,826 Other profit or loss unallocated amounts Other income 1,000 2,129 Administrative expenses 5,405 1,601 Investment Adviser and professional fees 6,482 7,637 Write down and amortisation of intangible assets 22,962 Impairment of goodwill 2,069 Interest income 2,439 1,147 Interest expense 12,409 15,740 Foreign exchange gain 576 4,352 Sharebased payment incentive fee 6,430 Sharebased payment capital instrument 803 Consolidated profit before taxation 101,916 67,243 5.
Gross rental income 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Gross lease payments collected accrued from third parties 54,831 40,785 Gross lease payments collected accrued from related parties Note 37 11,350 10,622 Gross rental income 66,181 51,407 The future aggregate minimum rentals receivable under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: Not later than one year 67,065 52,663 Later than one year not later than five years 230,254 180,516 Later than five years 414,234 295,004 711,553 528,183 Redefine International P. L. C. 92 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 6.
Investment income 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Dividends received from equity securities designated at fair value through profit or loss 10,159 2,511 Total investment income 10,159 2,511 7.
Other income 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Fee income from related parties Note 37 14 631 Other property income 986 1,498 Total other income 1,000 2,129 8.
Administrative and other operating expenses 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Administration and other operating expenditure 2,440 1,601 Staff costs 2,453 Depreciation 56 Sharebased payments Note 32 456 Total administrative and other operating expenses 5,405 1,601 9.
Investment Adviser and professional fees 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Investment Adviser fees 789 10,989 management fee 789 4,559 incentive fee 6,430 Independent Auditors remuneration for audit 288 267 for tax compliance and advisory work 206 355 Legal fees 3,225 154 Other professional fees 1,974 2,302 Total Investment Adviser and professional fees 6,482 14,067 Following the completion of the management internalisation on 2 December 2013 the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA between the Company and RIPML was cancelled.
Prior to cancellation, asset management and certain other fees were payable under the IAA.
These fees included an incentive fee payable by the Company to RIPML if certain conditions were met.
The 6.43m incentive fee charge recorded in 2013 was satisfied by the issue of a fixed number of ordinary shares 12,989,899 in Redefine International on 2 December 2013.
Further details of the acquisition of RIMH and the management internalisation have been provided in Note 40.
Redefine International P. L. C. 93 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 10.
Net gains from financial assets and liabilities The following table details the net losses and gains incurred earned by the Group during the year: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Fair value through profit or loss Equity investments gain on loss of significant influence 46,690 Equity investments unrealised 8,625 5,657 Equity investments realised Note 19 3,093 Derivative financial instruments 1,077 5,449 Loss on remeasurement of deferred consideration related to the CMC acquisition Note 26 613 Financial assets carried at amortised cost Gain on debt restructure Note 42 6,182 Reversal of impairments 1,791 Impairment of loans and receivables 1,538 Net gain from financial assets and liabilities 751 44,944 In the prior year the Group recognised a gain on loss of significant influence in Cromwell of 46.69m comprising a 9.97m net gain on sale of securities, a 26.09m gain calculated as the difference between the carrying value and fair value of the remaining Cromwell securities held on the date significant influence was lost and 10.63m related to the recycle to the income statement of the foreign currency translation reserve.
Gain on legal extinguishment of debt 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Write off of residual Gamma liabilities 44,924 A Fixed Charge Receiver the Receiver was appointed to the property subsidiaries which secured the Gamma facility, in January 2013.
At that point the Board had considered the impact of the appointment in light of the fact that Wichford Gamma Limited, which the Group continued to control, was the primary obligor for the debt.
The Directors determined that the Receiver had been acting on behalf of the lender and that the appointment of the Receiver was in substance the transfer of those assets to the lender and a part settlement of the debt.
As a result the Gamma loan facility recorded in the books of Wichford Gamma Limited and consolidated by the Group of 199.68m was reduced by the fair value of the net assets of 157.82m of the relevant property subsidiaries at the date the Receiver was appointed.
Interest continued to accrue on the residual loan balance.
On 28 August 2014, following the sale by the Receiver of all of the properties securing the Gamma facility and the Final Determination Notice being issued to the Gamma bondholders, the Group received legal extinguishment of the residual Gamma debt from the Security Trustee.
All residual outstanding amounts under the facility were written off by the lender.
This legal write off resulted in a credit of 44.9m to the income statement being the write off of the residual Gamma debt of41.86m and the associated accrued interest on the residual debt.
Redefine International P. L. C. 94 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 12.
Equity accounted profit 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Investment in joint ventures Note 20 3,177 2,232 Investment in associates Note 21 436 7,861 Gain on dilution of shareholding in associate Note 21 313 Investment in associates reversal of impairment Note 21 5,477 Total equity accounted profit 3,926 11,106 13.
Impairment of goodwill 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance Goodwill generated from business acquisitions Note 40 2,069 Write off of goodwill 2,069 Closing balance 14.
Interest income 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Interest receivable from mezzanine financing 5,492 10,895 Interest income on bank deposits 333 267 Interest income on loans advanced to other parties 2,192 567 Interest income on loans to related parties Note 37 39 377 Total interest income 8,056 12,106 15.
Interest expense 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Interest expense on secured bank loans 34,238 25,176 Finance lease interest 821 426 Interest expense on amounts due to related parties Note 37 413 70 Interest expense on mezzanine financing 6,836 12,270 Interest expense on other financial liabilities 18 Total interest expense 42,308 37,960 Interest expense on secured bank loans for the period ended 31August 2014 includes 2.8m 31August 2013: 1.0m due to the amortisation of the fair value adjustments on liabilities acquired, or substantially modified leading to the recognition of the deemed new liability at fair value.
Redefine International P. L. C. 95 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 16.
Taxation a Tax recognised in profit or loss 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Current income tax Income tax in respect of current year 2,228 3,228 Withholding tax 1,097 397 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4,222 2,554 Total income tax credit expense 897 6,179 No tax was recognised on equity or other comprehensive income during the period 2013: Nil.
b Recognised deferred tax liability and movement during the period 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 4,924 2,489 Deferred tax liability recognised on investment properties 71 234 Deferred tax liability recognised on associates 2,320 Deferred tax settlement recognised on sale of investments at fair value 4,151 Closing balance 702 5,043 c Reconciliation The tax for the period is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% 31August 2013: 20%.
Thedifferences are explained below: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Profit before tax 101,916 67,243 Profit before tax multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21% prior periods: NRL rate of UK income tax of 20% 21,402 13,449 Effect of: exempt property valuations 10,461 4,144 gain on legal extinguishment of debt 9,434 income not subject to UK income tax 4,981 9,898 impact of foreign tax Australian tax on Cromwell 2,428 4,367 gain from financial assets and liabilities 158 8,989 losses carried forward 653 expenses not deductible for tax 4,066 609 sharebased payment incentive fee 1,447 withholding tax 1,097 397 Total tax credit charge for the year 897 6,179 Net deferred tax assets not recognised amounted to 13.8m 31August 2013: 45.06m.
From the reconciliation above, the effective tax rate of the Group was 0.9% 31August 2013: 9.2%.
Redefine International P. L. C. 96 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements On 4 December 2013 the Group converted to a UK REIT.
As a result, the Group no longer pays UK corporation tax on the profits and gains from qualifying rental business in the UK provided it meets certain conditions.
Nonqualifying profits and gains of the Group continue to be subject to corporation tax as normal.
In order to retain REIT status, certain ongoing criteria must be maintained.
The main criteria are as follows: at the start of each accounting period, the assets of the tax exempt business must be at least 75% of the total value of the Groups assets: at least 75% of the Groups total profits must arise from the tax exempt business: and at least 90% of the income from tax exempt business must be distributed.
The Directors intend that the Group should continue as a REIT for the foreseeable future, with the result that deferred tax is no longer recognised on temporary differences relating to the property rental business which is within the REIT structure.
Investment property The cost of the consolidated investment properties at 31August 2014 was 1.3bn 31August 2013: 1.02bn.
Thecarrying amount of investment property is the fair value of the property as determined by a registered independent appraiser having an appropriate recognised professional qualification and recent experience in the location and category ofthe property being valued together referred to as valuers.
The fair value of each of the properties for the year ended 31August 2014 was assessed by the valuers in accordance with the RICS standards and IFRS 13.
The valuations performed by the independent valuers are reviewed internally by senior management.
This includes discussions of the assumptions used by the external valuers, as well as a review of the resulting valuations.
Discussions of the valuation process and results are held between senior management and the external valuers on a halfyearly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the valuation results.
Technique The valuation techniques described below are consistent with IFRS 13 and use significant unobservable inputs.
There have been no changes in valuation techniques since the prior year.
Yield capitalisation for commercial investment properties, market rental values are capitalised at a market capitalisation rate.
The resulting valuations are crosschecked against the net initial yields and the fair market values per square foot derived from recent market transactions.
Sensitivity An increase or decrease in ERV will increase or decrease the fair value of the Groups investment properties.
An increase or decrease to the net initial yields and reversionary yields will decrease or increase the fair value of the Groups investment properties.
An increase or decrease in the estimated costs of the development will decrease or increase the fair value of the Groups investment properties under development.
There are interrelationships between the unobservable inputs as they are determined by market conditions: an increase in more than one input could magnify or mitigate the impact on the valuation.
The Group considers that all of its investment properties and assets held for sale fall within Level 3, as defined by IFRS 13.
Accordingly, there has been no transfer of properties within the fair value hierarchy in the financial year.
The table below summarises the key unobservable inputs used in the valuation of the Groups whollyowned investment properties and assets held for sale excluding finance leases at 31August 2014: Weighted Net initial yield Market value Lettable Average average weighted Net initial Average market 2 2 2 m area m rent per m lease length average yield range rent per m UK Commercial Portfolio 179.8 151,454 113.6 6.5 8.8% 5.7%12.3% 87.3 UK Retail Portfolio 338.2 175,701 155.7 9.7 6.6% 5.5%7.1% 165.0 Hotels 194.0 30,887 388.9 12.4 5.9% 4.9%7.4% 410.6 Europe 215.7 103,178 145.6 5.6 6.6% 4.1%14.8% 126.8 927.7 Redefine International P. L. C. 97 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 17.
Investment property continued Sensitivity continued In accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property: Paragraph 14, judgement is needed to determine whether a property qualifies as an investment property.
The Group has developed criteria so that it can exercise its judgement consistently in recognising investment properties.
These include inter alia: property held for longterm capital appreciation, property owned or under finance leases and leased out under one or more operating leases: and property that is being constructed or developed for future use as an investment property.
The recognition and classification of property as investment property principally assures that the Group does not retain significant exposure to the variation in cash flows arising from the underlying operations of properties.
Investment property comprises a number of commercial and retail properties that are leased to third parties.
The hotel properties are held for capital appreciation and to earn rental income.
The properties have been let to RHML and RECML for a fixed rent which is subject to annual review.
The annual rent review takes into account the forecast EBITDA for the hotel portfolio when setting the revised rental level.
As detailed in the key judgements and estimates in Note 2.3.
3, aside from the payment of rental income to Redefine International which resets annually and the Groups shareholding in RedefineBDL, Redefine International is not involved in the hotel management business and there are limited transactions between it and RHML and RECML.
Property operating expenses in the consolidated income statement relate solely to income generating properties.
31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 643,892 631,278 Properties acquired during the period 113,125 27,000 Capitalised expenditure 3,834 7,187 Disposals during the period 24,057 7,985 Disposals through the sale of property 24,057 7,250 Disposals through sale of subsidiaries 735 Impact of the loss of control of subsidiary property companies securing the Gamma facility 158,040 Impact of acquisition of subsidiaries Note 41 123,043 158,330 Foreign exchange movement in foreign operations 16,280 5,854 Net fair value gain loss on investment property 48,989 13,406 Reclassification to assets held for sale Note 22 6,326 Closing balance 892,546 643,892 31August 31August 2014 2013 Acquisitions 000 000 Weston Favell Shopping Centre, Northampton 88,514 Extension to the Southwark Holiday Inn Express, London 12,042 Enfield Travelodge, London 11,032 Petrol stations 1,537 Earls Court Holiday Inn Express, London 27,000 113,125 27,000 During the year, an asset swap was executed within the Malthurst portfolio.
Eight petrol stations were provided as consideration for three petrol stations.
The above acquisition figure represents the difference in valuation between the two portfolios plus acquisition costs and is the net cash paid by the Group as part of the transaction.
Redefine International P. L. C. 98 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 31August 31August 2014 2013 Disposals 000 000 Lyon and Equitable House, Harrow 13,770 St Anne House, Croydon 8,400 Aschaffenburg, Germany 949 Heilbronn, Germany 938 Trito Petersfield Limited 735 Inkstone Portfolio, Germany 3,447 Princes Street Investments petrol stations 3,490 Finance leases 313 24,057 7,985 6.7m of the proceeds from this disposal were deferred and are payable within one year under the terms of the transaction.
A reconciliation of investment property valuations to the consolidated statement of financial position is shown below: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Investment property at market value as determined by external valuers 927,713 692,256 Freehold 677,727 525,377 Freehold and long leasehold 12,530 Leasehold 249,986 154,349 Adjustments for items presented separately on the balance sheet: add minimum payment under head leases separately included under borrowings 16,683 8,886 investment properties classified as assets held for sale Note 22 51,850 57,250 Balance sheet carrying value of investment property 892,546 643,892 18.
Longterm receivables 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts due from joint ventures Note 37 476 74 Amounts due from Mezzanine Capital Limited 1,591 103,854 2,067 103,928 The loan to joint ventures is unsecured, bears interest at a rate of 2% and is repayable on demand, but the expectation is that the term will be greater than 12 months.
Redefine International P. L. C. 99 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 19.
Investments at fair value The following table details Investments at fair value.
31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Derivative financial instruments Note 29 2,362 111 Investment in Cromwell 97,803 138,909 Other investments designated at fair value 72 Closing balance 100,165 139,092 The movement in investments designated at fair value may be reconciled as follows: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 139,092 399 Recognition of Cromwell shares at fair value at the date significant influence was lost 144,417 Disposal of equity investments 35,646 Realised gains on sale of Cromwell shares 3,093 Premium paid on derivative cap acquired 2,495 Movement in unrealised gains and losses on derivatives 244 66 Movement in unrealised gains and losses on other investments 149 Movement in unrealised gains and losses on Cromwell 8,625 5,508 Closing balance 100,165 139,092 The Group ceased to account for Cromwell as an associate from April 2013 as it was deemed to have lost significant influence over that entity following a disposal of shares.
The Group disposed of 8,460,067 securities in Cromwell on 3 December 2013 at a price of AUD0.96 for a total consideration of AUD8.1m 4.5m and a further 54,242,549 securities on 29 August 2014 at a price of AUD1.0175 for a total consideration of AUD55.19m 31.1m.
The Groups shareholding in Cromwell at 31August 2014 was 9.99% 31 August 2013: 13.70%.
The closing price of Cromwell on 31 August 2014 was 100.0 Australian cents per security 31 August 2013: 102.5c.
Investment in joint ventures 31August 31 August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 15,150 2,159 Increase in investment 17,588 Equity accounted profit loss 3,177 2,232 Loss due to foreign currency movements 1,530 48 Distribution received from joint ventures 1,634 2,317 Closing balance 15,163 15,150 Redefine International P. L. C. 100 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements The Groups investments in joint ventures currently consist of the following: i.
50% in Pearl House Swansea Limited, a joint venture with Sandgate Properties Limited, which owns a long leasehold retail interest in Swansea, Wales: ii.
50% in Swansea Estates Limited, a joint venture with Sandgate Properties Limited, which owns a long leasehold retail interest in Swansea, Wales: iii.
50% in Ciref NEPI Holdings Limited, a joint venture with New Europe Property Investments, which ultimately owns property in Germany, Western Europe: iv.
50% in 26 The Esplanade No 1 Limited, a joint venture with Rimstone Limited, which ultimately owns an office building in St. Helier, Jersey: v. 50% in Ciref Crawley Limited, a joint venture with Graymont Limited, which owns three blocks of offices in Crawley, Surrey: vi.
50.5% interest in RI Menora German Holdings S. a. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which ultimately owns properties in Waldkraiburg, Hucklehoven and Kaiserslautern in Germany.
Notwithstanding the economic shareholding the contractual terms provide for joint control and so the Company is not deemed to control the entity: and vii.
49% interest in VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. a joint venture with Menora Mivtachim, which ultimately owns government let properties in Dresden, Berlin, Stuttgart and Cologne, Germany.
Following an assessment of the rights of each shareholder under the shareholder agreement this entity is deemed to be a joint venture of the Group.
The investment in joint ventures includes investments held at Nil value in the balance carried forward on 1 September 2013.
Ciref Coventry Limited and Redefine Wigan Limited became subsidiaries with effect from December 2013, following the purchase of 50% of the shares in the entities for 1.
These joint ventures had been held at Nil value prior to this acquisition.
Summarised financial information The summarised financial information derived from the gross balance sheets of the material joint ventures is set out below: Recognised RI Menora Ciref in Group VBG German Nepi financial Holdings Holdings Holdings statements 31August 2014 000 000 000 000 Percentage ownership interest 49% 50.5% 50% Activity Property Property Property investment investment investment Principal place of business Germany Germany Germany Country of incorporation Luxembourg Luxembourg Cyprus Noncurrent assets 71,576 22,036 26,134 Cash at bank 1,065 302 517 Other current assets 4,930 584 533 Noncurrent liabilities 55,471 15,172 20,019 Current liabilities 2,686 382 1,811 Derivative liabilities 415 328 756 Net assets 18,999 7,040 4,598 Group share of net assets 9,309 3,555 2,299 Carrying value of investment 9,309 3,555 2,299 15,163 Revenue 6,697 1,700 2,078 Interest expense 1,332 534 1,288 Tax expense 158 221 Foreign currency translation 2,063 1,095 213 Net gain 5,028 334 1,090 Attributable to the Group 2,463 169 545 3,177 Dividends paid 2,867 473 Redefine International P. L. C. 101 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 20.
Investment in joint ventures continued Summarised financial information continued Other Recognised RI Menora Ciref individually in Group VBG German Nepi immaterial financial Holdings Holdings Holdings joint ventures statements 31August 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Percentage ownership interest 49% 50.5% 50% Activity Property Property Property investment investment investment Principal place of business Germany Germany Germany Country of incorporation Luxembourg Luxembourg Cyprus Noncurrent assets 77,048 23,677 27,841 Cash at bank 1,797 888 548 Net derivative assets 1,438 Other current assets 916 65 414 Noncurrent liabilities 59,073 15,637 21,963 Current liabilities 3,531 654 1,916 Net derivative liabilities 65 1,203 Net assets 18,595 8,274 3,721 Group share of net assets 9,111 4,178 1,861 Carrying value of investment 9,111 4,178 1,861 15,150 Revenue 6,116 1,726 2,119 Interest expense 1,243 444 1,778 Tax expense 10 40 Foreign currency translation 30 78 Net gain loss 4,724 289 2,664 Attributable to the Group 2,094 146 1,332 1,616 2,232 Dividends paid 2,918 398 1,286 Redefine International P. L. C. 102 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 21.
Investments in associates 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 124,507 Acquisition of increase in investment in associates 7,261 26,121 Impact of foreign currency translation 6,894 Equity accounted profits 436 7,861 Gain on dilution of interest 313 Dilution of previous interest 1,735 Interest in cash subscribed 2,048 Distribution received from associates 43 10,237 Change in accounting treatment on loss of significant influence 118,325 Disposal of shares 42,298 Reversal of impairment previously recorded 5,477 Closing balance 7,967 As detailed in Note 40, the acquisition of the investment in associate for the period year ended 31August 2014 reflects the 33% shareholding acquired in RedefineBDL, acquired as part of the management internalisation on 2 December 2013.
Theshareholding was subsequently diluted to 25.3% with effect from 1 May 2014 following the issue of additional shares byRedefineBDL.
Significant influence over the operations of Cromwell was deemed to have ceased in April 2013 following the sale of 86m Cromwell securities and from that date the Group ceased to equity account for its investment.
The investment was designated at fair value through profit or loss from that date and the Group recognised a gain on loss of significant influence of 46.69m.
Summarised financial information The summarised financial information derived from the gross statements of financial position of associates is set out below.
The financial information represents that as reported by RedefineBDL in its financial statements as adjusted for consolidation adjustments arising on acquisition by Redefine International.
31August 2014 000 Percentage ownership interest 25.28% Activity Hotel management Principal place of business United Kingdom Country of incorporation BVI Noncurrent assets 4,160 Intangible assets 28,093 Cash at bank 4,510 Other current assets 5,241 Longterm liabilities 750 Current liabilities 9,737 Net assets 31,517 Groups share of net assets 25.28% 7,967 Revenue 8,323 Interest income 473 Interest expense 818 Taxation 496 Net profit 2,080 Groups share of net profit 436 Adjusted for period of ownership and varying ownership interest.
Redefine International P. L. C. 103 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 22.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets held for sale 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 57,250 136,009 Capitalised expenditure 50 Transfers in Note 17 6,326 Disposals 6,275 79,440 Foreign exchange movement in foreign operations 1,670 Net fair value gain loss on assets held for sale 825 7,315 Total 51,850 57,250 Assets held for sale include the following property assets: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Delta 51,850 55,150 West Tullos, Aberdeen 2,100 Total 51,850 57,250 The Company announced on 15 October 2012 the agreement to extend and restructure the 114.6m Delta facility.
Thematurity date of the Delta facility was extended to 15 April 2015 subject to the Company meeting annual disposal targets, in respect of the remaining 13 2013: 16 Delta portfolio assets.
The Group has undertaken to sell these properties over a twoyear period to April 2015 with sales targets required to be met each year.
As the Group is committed to the sale of the Delta property portfolio, all of the properties were included in assets held for sale.
As detailed in Note 48 a further tenDelta properties were sold post year end.
Liabilities held for sale At 31August 2012 the Group had committed to a sale plan involving the loss of control of a number of subsidiaries and, as aresult, all the assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries were classified as held for sale.
The Group finalised the restructuring of the VBG assets and the associated financing facilities on 8 October 2012.
The related sale of subsidiaries process to which the Group had committed and which resulted in liabilities totalling 91.94m being designated as held for sale in 2012 completed in October 2012.
Intangible assets 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance Impact of acquisition of subsidiaries 24,639 Write down of intangible assets 22,789 Amortisation 173 Closing balance 1,677 As detailed in Note 40, intangible assets were recognised on the acquisition of RIMH and represented the fair value of the advisory agreements acquired by the Group.
The value attributed to the Groups agreement with RIPML of 22.79m has been treated as a payment to avoid making future payments under the contract and has been fully written down in the year.
The value attributed to the contracts between RIMH and third parties including joint ventures of the Group and the noncontrolling element of properties held by the Group of 1.85m is being amortised on a straightline basis over the remaining terms of the contracts, which have an average life of eight years.
Redefine International P. L. C. 104 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 24.
Trade and other receivables 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Interest receivable 806 878 Rent receivable and prepayments net of provision of 295k 2013: 541k 3,625 1,728 Service charges recoverable from tenants 544 259 Amounts receivable from related parties Note 37 4,248 43,442 Net receivables Mezzanine Capital Limited 2,345 11,259 Gross receivables 2,345 15,354 Impairment of receivables 4,095 Consideration outstanding on disposed subsidiaries 6,700 4,850 VAT receivable 159 Loans advanced to other parties 5,147 Sundry receivables net of provision of Nil 2013: 905k 2,747 2,142 21,174 69,705 Shortterm loans to joint ventures are unsecured, bear no interest and are expected to mature within 12 months.
Cash at bank 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Cash at bank consists of the following: Unrestricted cash balances 83,781 29,598 Bank balances 63,732 29,580 Call deposits 20,049 18 Restricted cash balances 6,611 4,059 90,392 33,657 As at 31August 2014, there was 6.6m 31August 2013: 4.1m of cash at bank to which the Group did not have instant access.
The principal reason for this is that rents received are primarily held in locked bank accounts as interest and other related expenses are paid from these monies.
At 31August 2014 trade and other payables include accrued interest on bank debt facilities of 1.1m against which these cash balances will be applied.
Also included in the restricted cash balance at 31August 2014 is 5.5m held with Aviva with regards to the development in Birchwood Warrington Limited, and the proposed developments in Grand Arcade Wigan Limited and Weston Favell Limited 31August 2013: 0.7m.
Cash also includes 31m due from brokers in respect of the sale of Cromwell securities on 29 August 2014.
Redefine International P. L. C. 105 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 26.
Capital and reserves 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Authorised Ordinary shares of 8p each number 1,800,000,000 1,800,000,000 000 144,000 144,000 Issued, called and fully paid Opening: ordinary shares of 8.0p each number 967,963,757 579,454,792 000 77,437 41,721 Shares issued during the period of 8.0p each 31August 2013: 8p each number 328,133,592 495,492,906 share placements open offer 191,667,973 490,384,616 shares issued to acquire RIMH 66,010,101 shares issued to settle the incentive fee 12,989,899 shares issued to acquire noncontrolling interests 444,754 5,108,290 shares issued to settle the CMC acquisition 31,696,924 scrip dividend 25,323,941 000 26,251 35,716 Consolidation from 7.2p to 8.0p each nine shares allotted for every ten previously owned number 106,983,941 Closing: ordinary shares of 8.0p each number 1,296,097,349 967,963,757 000 103,688 77,437 Share capital and share premium Issue of shares associated with the CMC acquisition The consideration for the CMC acquisition which completed in August 2013 was settled in part in cash and in part in shares.
The share consideration was deferred as well as the cash element of the Berlin acquisition, and settled in the current year.
Included in the share consideration reserve at 31August 2013 was an amount of 5.5m related to the shares to be issued for the acquisition of Hamburg and Ingolstadt which the Company acquired as part of the CMC acquisition.
On3September2013 the Company issued 12,606,061 new ordinary shares of 8p each to settle this obligation.
As the exact number of shares to be issued for the acquisition of the Berlin asset was not known at 31August 2013, thefairvalue of the deferred consideration was reflected as a liability at 31August 2013.
The consideration was subsequently settled on 6 December 2013 through payment of 12.1m 11.51m in cash and the issue of 19,090,863 new ordinary shares of 8p each the Berlin Consideration Shares at an effective issue price of 40.0p per share.
Thefair value of the shares issued was 7.64m.
The Berlin Consideration Shares did not rank for the final dividend for the year ended 31August 2013.
The difference between the fair value of the liability at 31August 2013 and the fair value at the date of issuing the shares of negative 0.61m has been reflected in net gains from financial assets and liabilities in the income statement Note 10.
Issue of shares to acquire RIMH and to settle the incentive fee On 2 December 2013 the Company completed the acquisition of the entire issued share capital of RIMH for an issue of new ordinary shares in the Company.
In total, 79,000,000 new ordinary shares were issued to acquire RIMH and to settle the incentive fee payable by the Company to RIPML.
The fair value of these shares on the date of issue was 39.11m.
Theseshares were issued and admitted to trading on the LSE on 6 December 2013.
Redefine International P. L. C. 106 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Scrip dividend issue On 30 April 2014 the Company declared an interim dividend of 1.50p per share in respect of six months ended 28February2014 and offered shareholders an election to receive either a scrip dividend by way of an issue of new  shares credited as fully paid up or a cash dividend.
The Company received election forms for 919,239,020 ordinary shares of 8p each in the Company representing a 72% take up by shareholders, for which 25,323,941 scrip dividend shares were issued.
Other share issues The Company raised 16.8m through the issue of 40,000,000 new ordinary shares at 42p per share on 3September2013.
In September 2013 the Company repaid its 13m 6% convertible loan instrument issued to Aviva in September 2010.
Thisrepayment was financed by the issue of 36,587,873 new ordinary shares of 8p each to Redefine Properties Limited at an issue price of 41.925p per share.
115,080,100 new ordinary shares were issued and admitted to trading on the LSE on 28 February 2014 raising gross proceeds of approximately 54.28m.
The 40,000,000 shares issued in September 2013 along with the 12,606,061 shares issued to settle the acquisition of Hamburg and Ingolstadt and the 36,584,873 shares issued to fund the repayment of Aviva were issued cum dividend.
The Company acquired the remaining 10% of the issued share capital in Redefine International Fund Managers Europe Limited RIFME, which was settled by the issue of 444,754 new ordinary shares.
Other reserves Other reserves comprise the share consideration reserve, the sharebased payment reserve and other reserves.
Share consideration reserve The share consideration reserve was 5.5m at 31August 2013, which related to the shares to be issued to settle the consideration associated with the Hamburg and Ingolstadt asset acquisitions.
These shares were issued in September 2013 reducing the share consideration reserve to Nil.
Sharebased payment reserve The sharebased payment reserve at 31August 2013 of 11.95m related to potential shares to be issued to settle the incentive fee payable by the Company to RIPML.
As detailed above shares were issued in December 2013 to settle thisobligation.
The sharebased payment reserve at 31August 2014 of 0.46m relates to shares to be issued arising from equitysettled sharebased payments to employees if certain conditions are met Note 32.
Other reserves These are reserves arising from the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Reverse acquisition reserve The reverse acquisition reserve of 134.3m arose on the reverse acquisition of Wichford PLC subsequently renamed Redefine International P. L. C. by RIHL and comprises the difference between the capital structure of the Company and RIHL.
Distributions In terms of the dividend policy, the Company will seek to distribute the majority of its recurring earnings available for distribution in the form of dividends.
However, there is no assurance that the Company will pay a dividend or, if a dividend ispaid, the amount of such dividend.
During the period ended 31August 2014, the second interim dividend of 1.635p per share for the year ended 31August2013, was distributed, as well as the interim dividend of 1.5p per share for the period ended 28February2014.
The 2014 interim dividend was settled in part in cash and in part through the scrip dividend issue.
Redefine International P. L. C. 107 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 27.
Capital instrument As part of the Aviva debt restructuring in 2010 the Company entered into a 13m convertible facility with Aviva.
The loan bore interest at 6% per annum, and all interest was rolled up until the repayment of the facility.
The capital plus rolled up interest was repayable or convertible three years after the date of the agreement.
The convertible facility was classified as an equity instrument under IAS 32 as it was to be settled in either cash or a fixed number of equity shares at the discretion of the Company.
The fixed number of shares to be issued changed over time but was fully predetermined based on the time the Company chose to settle the instrument.
The additional shares that became due over time were charged to profit or loss in each period as a sharebased payment charge which was credited to the equity reserve.
On 13 September 2013, the capital instrument was settled in cash which was financed through the issue of 36,587,873 new ordinary shares in the Company to Redefine Properties Limited.
Borrowings 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Noncurrent Loan facilities 528,183 497,230 Less: deferred finance costs 1,940 1,369 Aviva profit share 3,203 Finance leases 15,679 8,357 Total noncurrent borrowings 545,125 504,218 Current Loan facilities 97,821 174,097 Less: deferred finance costs 1,545 1,333 Aviva profit share 2,402 Finance leases 1,004 530 Total current borrowings 99,682 173,294 Total borrowings 644,807 677,512 As part of the terms of the Aviva debt restructure Aviva have retained the right to participate in 50% of the income and capital growth generated by Grand Arcade Wigan after all costs, expenses and interest.
This profit share is deemed to be a financial liability since it varies in relation to a nonfinancial variable specific to the contract.
It has been recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be carried at amortised cost.
Redefine International P. L. C. 108 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements a Loans This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups loans and borrowings, which are measured atamortised cost.
Secured borrowings The terms and conditions of outstanding loans are as follows: Nominal value Carrying value Loan 31August 31August 31August 31August interest Maturity 2014 2013 2014 2013 Facility Amortising Lender rate Currency date 000 000 000 000 Windermere LIBOR October 2 Gamma No VIII CMBS 0.75% GBP 2012 41,862 41,862 Windermere LIBOR April 3 Delta Partly XI CMBS 0.75% GBP 2015 73,110 79,165 73,110 79,165 SchlossStrassen, HSH EURIBOR August Berlin Yes Nordbank 2.0% EUR 2017 55,608 61,433 53,545 57,249 Bahnhof Altona, HSH EURIBOR February Hamburg Yes Nordbank 2.2% EUR 2020 43,056 47,304 40,291 44,299 City Arkaden EURIBOR June Ingolstadt Yes Eurohypo 1.15% EUR 2016 10,178 11,358 9,267 10,457 Weston Favell November 4 1 Limited Yes Aviva 5.71% GBP 2038 50,000 47,091 Grand Arcade April 4 1 Wigan Limited No Aviva 5.68% GBP 2032 73,000 60,461 Birchwood September 4 1 Warrington Limited Partly Aviva 6.10% GBP 2035 28,972 29,150 25,649 17,112 Byron Place September 4 1 Seaham Limited Partly Aviva 6.44% GBP 2031 16,663 16,750 15,367 15,142 Redefine Hotel LIBOR November 5 Holdings Limited Yes Aareal 2.275% GBP 2021 95,624 85,903 95,624 85,903 Lloyds LIBOR May 6 Zeta Yes TSB 3.25% GBP 2018 34,695 37,695 34,695 37,695 St Georges Landesbank LIBOR April 7 Harrow Limited Yes Berlin 2.5% GBP 2016 40,538 40,538 St Georges Berlin LIBOR May 7 Harrow Limited Yes Hyp AG 1.85% GBP 2019 39,388 39,388 Redefine Australian BBSY March Investments Limited No Investec 4% AUD 2016 28,218 34,522 28,218 34,522 West Orchards LIBOR December Coventry Limited Yes Santander 2.75% GBP 2018 18,159 18,159 SNS Property EURIBOR July Hague Yes Finance 2.3% EUR 2016 16,451 18,206 15,796 17,148 Ciref Berlin 1 Limited and Ciref German EURIBOR September 11 Portfolio Limited Partly RBS 1.2% EUR 2014 11,476 18,212 11,476 18,212 Kalihora Holdings LIBOR October Limited Yes UBS 1.25% CHF 2018 10,818 11,927 10,818 11,927 Princes Street LIBOR January 8 Investments Yes HSBC 2.5% GBP 2019 10,887 9,027 10,887 9,027 Gibson Property June 1 Holdings Limited Partly Aviva 6.37% GBP 2029 10,564 10,735 10,564 10,735 Bayern EURIBOR October ITB Herzogenrath B. V. Yes LB 1.3% EUR 2017 6,700 7,369 6,700 7,369 Bayern EURIBOR October ITB Schwandorf B. V. Yes LB 1.3% EUR 2017 5,542 6,096 5,542 6,096 Redefine International P. L. C. 109 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 28.
Borrowings continued a Loans continued Secured borrowings continued Nominal value Carrying value Loan 31August 31August 31August 31August interest Maturity 2014 2013 2014 2013 Facility Amortising Lender rate Currency date 000 000 000 000 Newington House LIBOR February 10 Limited Yes AIB 2.50% GBP 2014 5,974 6,084 5,974 6,084 CEL Portfolio EUR November 1 Limited & Co. KG Yes Valovis 4.95% 2014 3,589 4,015 3,589 4,015 Bayern EURIBOR September CEL Portfolio 2 Limited Yes LB 1.7% EUR 2018 3,174 3,174 Total bank loans 651,846 577,351 625,385 554,557.. Mezzanine Capital 7.10% 9 1 Limited 10% GBP Various 116,107 116,107 CEL Portfolio Limited 1 & Co. KG 0% EUR 2029 619 663 619 663 Total secured loans 652,465 694,121 626,004 671,327 All bank loans are secured over investment property, and bear interest at the specified interest rates.
2 The Gamma debt was legally extinguished during the current year Note 11.
3 The Delta facility will reduce in line with the Groups annual disposal targets in respect of the remaining Delta portfolio assets.
4 These facilities were subject to a fundamental debt restructure in December 2013 as detailed in Note 42 and are cross collateralised against each other.
5 The RHH portfolio was refinanced on 4 August 2014 with Aareal Bank, with the term extended from November 2015 to November2021.
An additional 16m was drawn down under the facility to fund the acquisition of the Southwark hotel extension.
The interest rate was amended under the terms of the revised agreement from LIBOR plus a margin of 2.45% to LIBOR plus a margin of 2.275%.
This was not deemed to be a substantial modification in the terms of the original debt.
6 During the year ended 31August 2014, the Zeta facility was extended by two years from a maturity date of May 2016 to May 2018.
7 During the year ended 31August 2014, the St Georges Harrow Limited facility with Landesbank Berlin was refinanced with Berlin Hyp AG.
8 During the year ended 31August 2014, the Group refinanced the Princes Street Investments loan with HSBC.
There was no change in the interest rate, however an additional 2.1m was drawn down under the facility and the maturity date was extended from September2016 to January 2019.
9 The outstanding facilities were repaid in the financial year ended 31August 2014.
10 The Group are in the process of refinancing this facility with agreement reached with the lender to extend the maturity to March 2018.
11 The Group are in discussions with the bank to refinance this facility.
Redefine International P. L. C. 110 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Noncurrent liabilities Secured bank loans 528,183 497,230 Total noncurrent loans and borrowings 528,183 497,230 The maturity of noncurrent borrowings is as follows: Between one year and five years 99,682 398,015 More than five years 428,501 99,215 528,183 497,230 Current liabilities Secured loans 97,821 174,097 Total current loans and borrowings 97,821 174,097 Total loans and borrowings 626,004 671,327 Exposure to credit, interest rate and currency risks arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to reduce exposure to fluctuations in interest rates Note 29. b Finance leases Obligations under finance leases at the reporting dates are analysed as follows: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Gross finance lease liabilities repayable: Not later than one year 878 404 Later than one year not later than five years 3,513 1,615 Later than five years 95,595 21,652 99,986 23,671 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 83,303 14,784 Present value of minimum lease payments 16,683 8,887 Present value of finance lease liabilities repayable: Not later than one year 878 404 Later than one year not later than five years 2,955 1,428 Later than five years 12,850 7,055 Present value of minimum lease payments 16,683 8,887 Redefine International P. L. C. 111 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 29.
Derivatives The Group enters into interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements.
The purpose is to manage the interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
The interest rate swaps are employed by the Group to convert the Groups borrowings from floating to fixed interest rates and are detailed in a below.
The interest rate caps as detailed in b below are employed by the Group to limit the exposure to upward movements in interest rates.
It is the Groups policy that no economic trading in derivatives is undertaken.
a Interest rate swap agreements In accordance with the terms of borrowing arrangements, the Group has entered into interest rate swap agreements.
Theinterest rate swaps are used to manage the interest rate profile of financial liabilities.
The Group has employed interest rate swaps to eliminate future exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The following table sets out the interest rate swaps.
The current interest rate cap agreements are detailed below: Nominal value Fair value Cap 31August 31August 31August 31August Effective Maturity rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 Facility date date % 000 000 000 000 St Georges Harrow 27 4 2011 27 4 2016 2.85 41,400 41,400 3 67 ITB Herzogenrath B. V. 31 5 2011 31 5 2017 4.50 6,774 6,989 5 24 ITB Schwandorf B. V. 31 5 2011 31 5 2017 4.50 5,603 5,781 4 20 Zeta 24 8 2014 24 5 2018 4.89 375 164 Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited 30 11 2015 30 11 2021 3.00 71,700 2,061 2,231 111 c Summary of fair value of interest rate swaps and interest rate caps 31August 31August 2014 2013 Faculty 000 000 Interest rate swaps liabilities Noncurrent 2,176 776 Current 3,085 4,038 5,261 4,814 Interest rate swap assets 128 Net fair value of interest rate swaps 5,133 4,814 Interest rate cap liabilities current 3 Interest rate cap assets 2,234 111 Fair value of interest rate cap agreements 2,231 111 Net fair value of derivative instruments 2,902 4,703 Derivative assets are included in investments designated at fair value Note 19.
Provision for liabilities and commitments 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Opening balance 12,079 12,079 Release of provisions Note 42 12,079 Total 12,079 A provision of 12.1m had been set up in respect of estimated potential future cash outflows related to external loans provided by Aviva to the former joint ventures Redefine Wigan Limited and Ciref Coventry Limited which were cross collateralised against properties held directly by the Group.
Following the acquisition of these joint ventures and the agreed restructure of the Aviva debt facilities in December 2013 this provision was released.
Redefine International P. L. C. 113 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 31.
Trade and other payables 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Rent received in advance 3,381 1,876 Trade creditors 2,533 831 Accrued interest 1,810 4,725 Shortterm loans from joint ventures Note 37 754 16 Amounts owing to other related parties Note 37 1,121 Amount owing to Mezzanine Capital Limited 11,798 VAT payable 731 Income tax payable 4,595 4,013 Other accruals 9,767 9,251 Deferred consideration regarding CMC acquisition 18,535 22,840 52,897 Shortterm loans from joint ventures are unsecured, bear no interest and are expected to mature within 12 months.
Sharebased payments The Groups sharebased payments are all equitysettled and comprise the LongTerm Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors and the Restricted Stock Plan for employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased Payments the fair value of equitysettled sharebased payments to employees is determined at grant date, and is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to the sharebased payments reserve.
The Company utilises the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model to determine the fair value at grant date.
31August 2014 Fair value Number of on grant Shares date LongTerm Performance Share Plan 000 000 Awards brought forward Awards made during the current period 3,970 1,368 Awards carried forward 3,970 1,368 31August 31August 2014 2013 Sharebased payment charge 000 000 Opening balance Sharebased payment expense in the period year 456 Closing sharebased payment balance 456 The PSP for Executive Directors authorises the Remuneration Committee to make grants of PSP shares with a face value of up to 100% of salary to participants.
Awards of PSP shares are subject to performance measures over three years.
Halfof the award will vest dependent on the Companys TSR equalling, or exceeding, the TSR relative to that of each of the members of the FTSE EPRA REIT Developed Europe Index the Index and the other half of an award will be subject to a performance target which measures the Companys TSR relative to that of the members of a bespoke comparator group.
Vesting is on a sliding scale between 25% for median performance and 100% for upper quartile performance, with 0% vesting below a median performance.
For the marketbased TSR awards, the effect of the performance conditions is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
The fair value calculation assumes that PSP shares will be awarded at 65% of the face value at grant for the portion of the award subject to relative TSR performance against members of the comparator group and 73% of the face value at grant date for the portion of the award subject to relative TSR performance against members of the Index.
No subsequent adjustment to the charge can be made to reflect the outcome of the performance test.
Adjustments can, however, be made for participants who leave the scheme before vesting.
The shares outstanding under the scheme are to be issued for nominal consideration provided performance conditions are met.
3.17m shares were granted on 29 November 2013 for the performance period from 1 September 2013 to 31August 2016.
The share price on 1 September 2013 was 42.75p.
Redefine International P. L. C. 114 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements To calculate the fair value of sharebased longterm incentives, it was necessary to make a number of assumptions.
For the purpose of the valuation performed, use was made of the Companys LSE listing in developing share price volatility, dividend yield and index correlation assumptions.
The table below sets out the assumptions made: Elements Assumptions Volatility 24.4% Riskfree rate 0.89% Correlation of the comparator group companies 27.6% Correlation of the Index companies 41.9% No shares were granted in respect of the RSP during the financial year ended 31August 2014.
A further 3.17m shares were granted post the financial year end for the performance period from 1 September 2014 to 31August 2017.
33. Credit risk Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit risk exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Loans and receivables 2,067 103,928 Trade and other receivables 21,174 69,705 Cash and cash equivalents 90,392 33,657 113,633 207,290 The concentration of credit risk per segment is set out below: UK Commercial 9,940 25,445 UK Retail 11,801 97,316 Europe 7,866 3,825 Hotels 722 40,461 Australia 963 1 Other 83,304 39,280 113,633 207,290 1 Includes 41.1m 2013: 24.57m of cash held by the Company and its subsidiary, RIHL.
Included in loans and receivables and trade and other receivables are debtors with the following age profile: 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 000 000 Gross Impairment Net Gross Impairment Net Not past due 19,203 295 18,908 182,979 25,092 157,887 Past due 0 120 days 705 705 1,542 1,542 Past due 120 days 3,628 3,628 18,456 5,000 13,456 Bad debt provisions of 295k 2013: 541k have also been booked against rent receivable balances as detailed in Note 24.
These provisions are specific to tenants that went into administration.
Redefine International P. L. C. 115 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 34.
Liquidity risk The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual Six months Six to twelve One to Two to More than amount cash flows or less months two years five years five years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 31August 2014 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Secured loans 627,004 882,039 108,201 13,765 156,255 145,551 458,267 Aviva profit share 5,605 10,862 306 306 612 1,836 7,802 Finance leases 16,683 99,987 439 439 878 2,635 95,596 Trade and other payables 22,840 22,840 22,840 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for economic hedging 5,264 8,074 1,476 1,476 1,896 2,932 294 677,396 1,012,940 132,956 15,680 159,029 151,118 554,157 31August 2013 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Secured loans 670,488 772,835 25,288 138,519 73,805 393,864 141,359 Finance leases 8,887 32,615 265 265 530 1,590 29,965 Trade and other payables 52,897 52,897 52,897 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for economic hedging 4,814 10,819 2,057 1,746 2,660 3,457 899 737,086 869,166 80,507 140,530 76,995 398,911 172,223 Cash flows on financial liabilities at amortised cost and derivative financial liabilities were based on the respective loan interest rates as per Notes 28 and 29.
Redefine International P. L. C. 116 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 35.
Currency risk Structural risk The investments in subsidiaries in Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland represent structural currency risk as these investments have functional currencies of Euro and Swiss Franc respectively.
31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Assets EUR 212,057 212,637 CHF 24,612 22,229 Liabilities EUR 171,391 180,728 CHF 15,560 16,493 Transactional risk The Groups income from incomeproducing rental properties is denominated in the same currencies as the loans that are financing those properties.
Loans have been made by the Group to subsidiary companies in Swiss Francs totalling 3.92m 2013: 4.2m.
As at 31August 2014 the Groups transactional risk associated with Cromwell of 28.21m 2013: 34.52m represented the Sterling equivalent of the AUD loan facility used to finance part of the investment, and 97.8m being the Sterling equivalent of the AUD investment.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% strengthening in the GBP exchange rate against the following currencies at year end would have decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.
Equity Profit or loss 000 000 31August 2014 EUR 1,414 1 CHF 434 15 AUD 3,317 31August 2013 EUR 1,609 2 CHF 278 3 AUD 4,971 A 5% weakening in the GBP exchange rate against the above currencies at year end would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
The Groups total net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates at the reporting date was as above.
Thisreflects the total and financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities in foreign currencies.
The following exchange rates were applied during the year: Average rate Period end rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 EUR 1.217 1.198 1.262 1.172 CHF 1.491 1.461 1.522 1.441 AUD 1.801 1.568 1.776 1.738 Redefine International P. L. C. 117 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 36.
Fair values Basis for determining fair values The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements.
Level 1: Quoted market price unadjusted in an active market for an identical instrument.
Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This category includes instruments valued using: quoted market prices in active markets for similar instruments: quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are considered less than active: or other valuation techniques where all significant inputs are directly or indirectly observable from market data.
Level 3: Valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs.
This category includes all instruments where the valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs have a significant effect on the instruments valuation.
This category includes instruments that are valued based on quoted prices for similar instruments where significant unobservable adjustments or assumptions are required to reflect differences between the instruments.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities that are traded in active markets are based on quoted market prices or dealer price quotations.
For all other financial instruments the Company determines fair values using net present value and discounted cash flow models and comparisons to similar instruments for which market observable prices exist.
Assumptions and inputs used in valuation techniques include riskfree and benchmark interest rates, credit spreads and other premia used in estimating discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates and expected price volatilities and correlations.
Theobjective of valuation techniques is to arrive at a fair value determination that reflects the price of the financial instrument at the reporting date that would have been determined by market participants acting at arms length.
The Group uses widely recognised valuation models for determining the fair value of common and more simple financial instruments such as interest rate swaps that use only observable market data and require little management judgement and estimation.
Observable prices and model inputs are usually available in the market for simple over the counter derivatives, e. g. interest rate swaps.
Availability of observable market prices and model inputs reduces the need for management judgement and estimation and also reduces the uncertainty associated with determination of fair values.
Availability of observable market prices and inputs varies depending on the products and markets and is prone to changes based on specific events and general conditions in the financial markets The tables below present information about the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value as of 31August 2014 and 31August 2013.
Investment property and asset held for sale classifications have been set out in Note 17.
Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value 000 000 000 000 31August 2014 Financial assets carried at fair value Designated at fair value through profit or loss 97,803 97,803 Derivative financial assets Note 29 2,362 2,362 97,803 2,362 100,165 Financial liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial liabilities Note 29 5,264 5,264 5,264 5,264 31August 2013 Financial assets carried at fair value Designated at fair value through profit or loss 138,909 72 138,981 Derivative financial assets 111 111 138,909 183 139,092 Financial liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial liability 4,814 4,814 4,814 4,814 Redefine International P. L. C. 118 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements No financial instruments were transferred between levels during the year.
The investment in Cromwell is categorised as a Level 1 investment as it has been priced using quoted prices in an activemarket.
Certain financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss in 2013 were categorised as Level 2 as they had been priced using quoted prices for identical instruments in markets that are considered less than active.
These investments were redeemed during the year.
Interest rate swaps have been categorised as Level 2 as although they are priced using directly observable inputs, theinstruments are not traded in an active market.
Investment property and assets held for sale have been categorised as Level 3 Note 17.
The following tables analyse within the fair value hierarchy the Groups assets and liabilities not measured at fair value but for which fair value is disclosed: Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value 000 000 000 000 000 31August 2014 Longterm receivables 2,067 Trade and other receivables 21,174 Cash at bank 90,392 Borrowings 626,004 604,125 604,125 Trade and other payables 22,840 31August 2013 Longterm receivables 103,928 Trade and other receivables 69,633 Cash at bank 33,657 Borrowings 554,557 488,681 488,681 Trade and other payables 52,819 The Group has not disclosed the fair value of the following in the table above: trade and other receivables and trade and other payables as their carrying values are a reasonable approximation of fairvalue: longterm receivables as carrying value is believed to approximate fair value given the applicable interest rate on the loans and the fact that they are shorter term in nature: and the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents represents its fair value.
The fair value of borrowings has been determined based on discounting the cash flows under the relevant agreements at a market interest rate for similar debt instruments.
The market interest rate has been determined having regard to the term, duration and security arrangements of the relevant loans and an estimation of the current rates charged in the market for similar instruments issued to companies of similar sizes.
Redefine International P. L. C. 119 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 37.
Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include associate undertakings and joint ventures, Directors and key management personnel and connected parties, and the major shareholder Redefine Properties Limited as well as entities connected through common directors.
Management internalisation Following the management internalisation and related acquisition of the Investment Adviser on 2 December 2013, RIMH and its Group undertakings are no longer considered related parties as they are consolidated within the Group.
Audited Audited 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Trading transactions Rental income received from Redefine Hotel Management Limited 11,350 10,622 Fee income from VBG 3 Fee income from Redefine Hotel Management Limited 11 Fee income from the Cromwell Property Group 631 Interest receivable from RedefineBDL 39 Interest receivable from West Orchards Coventry 377 Interest payable to Coronation Group Investments Limited 413 70 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Property Management Limited 340 2,728 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Fund Managers Limited 160 727 Portfolio management fees charged by Redefine International Fund Managers Europe Limited 289 590 Redefine International Hotels Limited 514 Incentive fees payable to Redefine International Property Management Limited 6,430 Amounts receivable Redefine Hotel Management Limited 4,082 3,642 Corovest Offshore Limited 30 162 Ciref Crawley Investments Limited 49 87 Swansea Estates Limited 87 87 Pearl House Swansea Limited 476 74 West Orchards Coventry Limited 37,989 Kaiserslautern Merkerstrasse GmbH 400 Grand Arcade Wigan Limited 487 26 The Esplanade No 1 Limited 78 Banstead Property Holdings Limited 510 Amounts payable 26 The Esplanade No 1 Limited 22 VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. 732 78 Redefine International Fund Managers Limited 374 Redefine Properties International Limited 7 Pearl House Swansea 16 Osiris Properties Services Limited 6 Redefine BDC Hotel Group Limited 480 Redefine International Property Management Limited 176 Details of transactions with Mezzanine Capital Limited are provided for in Notes 14, 15, 18, 24, 28 and 31.
Directors The remuneration paid to Nonexecutive Directors for the period ended 31August 2014 was 306,053 which represents Directors fees only 31August 2013: 345,000.
Redefine International P. L. C. 120 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements The remuneration paid to Executive Directors for the period following the internalisation totalled 1,254,448, representing salaries, benefits and bonuses.
2,970,000 contingent share awards were issued to Executive Directors.
The sharebased payment charge associated with the contingent share awards was 456,000.
Executive Directors represent key management personnel.
The Directors hold 0.71% of the shares of the Company.
Earnings per share and headline earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated on the weighted average number of shares in issue and the profit loss attributable toshareholders.
31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Net profit attributable to equity holders basic and diluted 95,200 61,521 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,192,268 924,394 Effect of employee sharebased payment plan Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions capital instrument 36,587 Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions incentive fee arrangements 14,697 Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions consideration payable on CMC 12,502 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,192,268 988,180 Number of ordinary shares in issue 1,296,097 967,964 weighted average 1,192,268 924,394 diluted weighted average 1,192,268 988,180 Earnings per share pence basic 7.98 6.66 diluted 7.98 6.23 Headline earnings per share pence basic 1.94 2.64 diluted 1.94 2.44 The share incentive scheme in place is currently nondilutive.
31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 95,200 61,521 Changes in fair value of investment property net of deferred tax 44,061 23,299 Net fair value gains losses on investment property 49,814 20,721 Deferred taxation 71 234 Effect of noncontrolling interest on above 5,972 1,069 Net fair value losses in jointly controlled entities 148 3,413 Gain on loss of significant influence in Cromwell net of capital gains tax 44,643 Gain on loss of significant influence in Cromwell 46,690 Capital gains tax on Cromwell disposal 2,047 Impairment of receivables 1,538 Impairment of goodwill 2,069 Impairment and amortisation of intangible assets 22,789 Gain on legal extinguishment of debt 44,924 Gain on debt restructure 6,182 Reversal of impairments 1,791 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries 17,285 Headline earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 23,100 24,430 Refer to the Directors remuneration report included on pages 51 to 62.
Redefine International P. L. C. 121 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 38.
Earnings per share and headline earnings per share continued 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Reconciliation to earnings available for distribution unaudited Gain on financial assets and liabilities 7,222 208 Straightlining of rental income 1,063 620 Fair value interest amortisation 2,631 983 Net interest on mezzanine financing 1,347 1,375 Amortisation of debt issue costs 2,730 1,972 Sharebased payment 456 803 Deferred tax released provided in relation to Cromwell 4,151 2,320 Capital gains tax on Cromwell disposal 1,724 Unrealised foreign exchange gain 730 4,357 Nondistributable interest net income from Gamma facility entities 2,998 1,314 Nondistributable income from Delta facility entities 1,749 1,846 Nondistributable income from VBG 22 Earnings on new investments 1,156 Nondistributable equity accounted profits 558 1,049 Capital costs included in professional fees 2,781 293 Cum dividend component of Cromwell disposal 399 Investment Advisers fees performance fee 6,430 Amortisation of intangible assets 173 Depreciation 56 RIMH acquired earnings 540 Impact of nondistributable items on noncontrolling interest 2,043 1,889 Earnings available for distribution unaudited 39,105 30,113 First interim dividend 19,062 14,202 Earnings available for distribution at period end unaudited 20,043 15,911 Number of ordinary shares in issue at year end 1,296,097 967,964 Weighted average ordinary shares 1,192,268 924,394 Weighted average distributable earnings per share 3.28 3.26 Dividend per share pence 3.20 3.11 First interim dividend per share pence 1.50 1.48 Second interim dividend per share pence 1.70 1.64 Redefine International P. L. C. 122 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 39.
Net assets per share 31August 31August 2014 2013 000 000 Net assets attributable to equity shareholders 000 481,042 299,799 Number of ordinary shares in issue at year end 000s 1,296,097 967,964 Effect of employee sharebased payment plan Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions capital instrument 36,587 Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions incentive fee arrangements 14,697 Effect of potential sharebased payment transactions consideration payable on CMC Note 41 12,606 Diluted number of shares 000s 1,296,097 1,031,854 Net asset value per share pence : basic 37.11 30.97 diluted 37.11 29.05 The share incentive scheme in place is currently nondilutive.
40. Business combination acquisition of RIMH On 2 December 2013 the Company completed the acquisition of RIMH.
The consideration was satisfied by the issue of 79,000,000 new ordinary shares in the Company.
a Consideration transferred The following table summarises the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred: Note 000 Fair value of consideration transferred Equity instruments i 32,675 b Identifiable assets and liabilities assumed Note 000 Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities Intangible asset Investment Adviser agreement iii 22,789 Intangible asset thirdparty management contracts iii 1,850 Investment in associates ii 7,261 Cash ii 219 Property, plant and equipment ii 161 Trade and other receivables ii 6,734 Loans and borrowings ii 5,400 Trade and other payables ii 2,924 30,690 c Goodwill Note 000 Consideration 32,675 NCI, based on their proportionate interest in the recognised amounts of the assets and liabilities of RIMH 84 FV of identifiable assets and liabilities 30,690 Goodwill iv 2,069 Redefine International P. L. C. 123 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 40. Business combination acquisition of RIMH continued Notes i Equity instruments issued The Company issued 79m shares on 2 December 2013.
12,989,899 were issued to settle the incentive fee payable under the Investment Adviser Agreement with 66,010,101 issued as consideration to acquire RIMH.
The fair value of the ordinary shares issued was based on the listed share price of the Company at 2 December 2013 of 49.50p per share.
ii Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities The fair value of the investment in associates, which relates to a 33% interest in RedefineBDL subsequently diluted to 25.3% has been calculated using a P E approach having regard for recent market transactions.
The investment in associates has been recognised at its fair value of 7.26m and will be subsequently increased or decreased for the Groups share of the profit or loss of the associates and adjusted for any dividends received Note 21.
The fair value falls into Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as it was determined by reference to a recent market transaction.
Given the shortterm nature of the trade and other payables and receivables the fair value has been deemed to be the carrying value as reflected in the RIMH accounts.
The fair value of loans and borrowings has been calculated based on discounting the cash flows under the agreement at a market interest rate for similar debt instruments.
The fair value falls into Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
iii Intangible assets The intangible asset created represented the fair value of the Advisory Agreements acquired by the Group.
The fair value of the intangible assets has been determined using a discounted cash flow model with the expected cash flows on the contracts discounted using a weighted average market discount rate determined by reference to the terms of the contracts.
The intangible asset includes an amount of 1.85m related to the management contracts held by RIMH with third partiesincluding joint ventures of the Group and the noncontrolling interest element of properties held by the Group.
Thevalue attributed to these third party asset management fees of 1.85m will be amortised over the remaining period ofthe contracts expected asset management term, which is an average of eight years Note 23.
The intangible asset acquired also includes an amount of 22,789m associated with the Investment Adviser agreement between RIPML and the Group.
This has been treated as a payment to avoid making future payments under the contract and has been fully written down in the year Note 23. iv Goodwill Goodwill of 2.07m arose as a result of the acquisition of RIMH.
This was a function of the movement in the share price between the date agreement was reached and the date shares were issued.
Subsequent to its recognition, it was reviewed for indications of impairment at which point a decision was taken, given an assessment as to its recoverable amount to, impair the goodwill to zero.
In the period following the acquisition, RIMH had revenue of 3.5m and a profit of 0.19m.
For the period from 1September2013 to the date of internalisation, RIMH had revenue of 11.9m and a profit of 1.67m.
The difference in revenue and profit is however not comparable, due to the restructure of the management fee charges within the Group following the UKREIT conversion and related transfer pricing policies adopted.
Redefine International P. L. C. 124 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 41.
Acquisition of subsidiaries The companies holding Grand Arcade, Wigan and West Orchards, Coventry were acquired on 3 December 2013 in contemplation of the Aviva restructuring Note 42.
The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisitions and the net cash position have been summarised in the table below: Total Total 31August 31August Coventry Wigan 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Assets and liabilities acquired Investment property 40,857 82,186 123,043 158,330 Trade and other receivables 526 183 709 1,147 Cash and cash equivalents 762 420 1,182 3,058 Trade and other payables including derivatives 38,688 5,381 44,069 4,870 Loans and borrowings 3,457 70,262 73,719 113,765 7,146 7,146 43,900 Settled as: Cash consideration 7,146 7,146 19,850 Fair value of shares to be issued as consideration 5,515 Fair value of deferred consideration Note 31 18,535 Fair value of existing shareholders Total consideration 7,146 7,146 43,900 Net cash acquired 762 420 1,182 3,058 2014 The fair value of the Coventry and Wigan investment property was determined by the Directors having regard to the 31August 2013 independent valuation and movements in the market up to 3 December 2013.
The fair value of Wigan related loans and borrowings was determined based on the fair value of the terms of the restructured Aviva debt and incorporates the fair value of the profit share granted to Aviva Note 42.
The fair value of the existing shareholding was deemed to be Nil at the date of acquisition.
2013 In August 2013, the Group acquired three subsidiaries which own three shopping centres in Germany, SchlossStrassen Shopping Centre, Berlin, Bahnhof Altona Shopping Centre, Hamburg and City Arkaden Shopping Mall, Ingolstadt.
The consideration for the acquisitions comprised a fixed cash payment as well as an option by the seller to receive the remaining consideration either entirely in cash or partly in cash and partly in new ordinary shares in the Company.
Thisresulted in the acquisition price being partly reflected partly as liabilities and partly as equity dependent on the known circumstances at 31August 2013.
Redefine International P. L. C. 125 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued for the year ended 31August 2014 42.
Aviva restructure On 11 December 2013, the Company completed a fundamental restructuring of the loans advanced by Aviva with respect to the Companys UK shopping centre portfolio.
As part of the restructure: i. the Company purchased Weston Favell Shopping Centre, Northampton for 84.0m.
This acquisition was part funded by a new 50m loan facility from Aviva which has a maturity date of November 2038: ii.
debt with a nominal value of 146.26m against the Grand Arcade property was reduced by approximately 50% to 73m in consideration for a cash payment of 7m.
This debt had been fair valued at 65.816m on the acquisition of Wigan Note 28 : iii.
Aviva retained the right to participate in 50% of the income and capital growth generated by Grand Arcade after all costs, expenses and interest going forward.
The Company has the right to buyback the profit share for a maximum cash payment of 18.5m in five instalments upon the valuation of Grand Arcade increasing by certain agreedbenchmarks: iv.
debt with a nominal value of 56m against the West Orchards Shopping Centre in Coventry West Orchards was repaid in cash at the market value of the property 37m.
Aviva are entitled to a 25% of profit above a base cost of 37m plus any further capital spend and a notional return of 10% from new capital should the property be sold within the next three years: and v. the cross collateralisation provisions were also amended with West Orchards removed from the Aviva security pool and replaced by Weston Favell.
Amendments were also made related to the Grand Arcade Wigan property such that the Aviva facilities which finance Birchwood Warrington, Byron Place Seaham and Weston Favell are cross collateralised with Aviva having recourse to those properties for only 50% of the Grand Arcade Wigan related facility.
Fair value Carrying value Gain loss Nominal at the date of at the date of on value restructure restructure restructure 000 000 000 000 West Orchards Coventry Grand Arcade Wigan 73,000 60,211 60,211 Grand Arcade Wigan profit share 5,605 5,605 Weston Favell 50,000 47,053 N a 47,053 Byron Place Seaham 16,707 15,402 15,136 266 Birchwood Warrington 29,024 26,683 18,105 8,578 Loss on restructure 55,897 Cash received from Aviva 50,000 Release of existing provision held Note 30 12,079 Net gain on restructuring 6,182 Redefine International P. L. C. 126 Annual Report 2014 Financial statements 43.
Disposal of subsidiaries The Group did not dispose of any subsidiaries during the financial year ended 31August 2014.
The Group disposed of the following subsidiaries during the financial year ended 31August 2013: VBG Holding S. a. r. l. on 11 October 2012: and Trito Petersfield on 28 February 2013.
A receiver was also appointed to Inkstone  Limited & Co KG and Inkstone Zwei  Limited & Co KG such that the Group no longer controls these entities and so ceased toconsolidate them from the date the receiver was appointed.
The assets and liabilities arising from those disposals were as follows: 31August 2013 000 Assets disposed Investment property 77,042 Longterm receivables Trade and other receivables 1,037 Liabilities Trade and other payables 1,222 Derivative liabilities Loans and borrowings 95,430 Total 18,573 Add: 244 Noncontrolling interest shareholder loans 1,997 Noncontrolling interest share of net deficit 2,241 Provision for liabilities and commitments Transfer of FCTR to income statement on disposal of foreign operation 293 Net gain loss on sale of subsidiaries 17,285 Net cash disposed 1,337 The Company completed the restructuring of the VBG assets and the associated financing facilities on 8 October 2012.
As part of the restructuring, the Company sold, for a nominal amount, 51% of its shareholding in VBG Holding S. a. r. l. to a major pension fund.
From this date VBG Holdings S. a. r. l. was deconsolidated as a subsidiary within the Group and is now accounted for as a joint venture.
The gain recognised on the sale of this subsidiary and resulting settlement of the original VBG facilities was 16.42m.
The Group also recognised gains on sale of other subsidiaries of 0.15m.
Redefine International P. L. C. 127 Annual Report 2014
