Financial statements Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk We engaged our tax specialists to assess the principal Taxation assumptions and judgements made in arriving at the current and The Company converted to a REIT deferred tax position.
during the year which exempts it from corporation tax on profits and gains We assessed managements process for ensuring compliance on its UK qualifying property rental with REIT requirements by reviewing any independent tax advice businesses.
obtained on the REIT conversion.
We inspected any tax advice obtained on transactions during the It also continues to operate in a number year and assessed the related accounting for current and deferred of other jurisdictions through its tax in light of the advice obtained.
investment in European properties and its investment in Cromwell, an Australian We also considered whether the Groups tax disclosures met the property fund.
requirements of IAS 12 Income Taxes.
We focused on this area as it is the first year for the Company under the REIT regime and the Group continues to be subject to the tax rules and requirements of a number of other jurisdictions.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality is a term used to describe the acceptable level of precision in financial statements.
Auditing standards describe a misstatement or an omission as material if it could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We identify a monetary amount materiality for the financial statements as a whole based on this criteria and apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, and in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and of uncorrected misstatements, if any, on the financial statements and in forming our opinion on them.
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 5.9 million.
This has been calculated using a benchmark of total assets of which it presents 0.5%, which we have determined, in our professional judgement, to be one of the principal considerations within the financial statements relevant to members of the company in assessing financial performance.
Redefine International P. L. C. as a property company is asset focused with the return generated by the Group largely dependent on the assets held.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee to report to it all corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through our audit with a value in excess of 0.3 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group consists of a number of components, all of which, with the exception of the Groups 25.3% investment in Redefine BDL Hotel Group Limited are accounted for at the Groups head office in London.
The Group audit team performed the audit of these components at the Group level as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information.
Thesecomponents represent 99.3% of total assets, 99.4% of total revenue and 99.5% of Group profit before taxation.
The audit was performed using the materiality level set out above.
The remaining 0.7% of total assets: 0.6% of total revenue and 0.5% of Group profit before taxation is represented by the Groups investment in Redefine BDL Hotel Group Limited which is considered immaterial to the Groups financial position.
Alocal statutory audit is performed over this component, but generally it is completed after the date of this report.
Redefine International P. L. C. 69 Annual Report 2014
