156 Financial Statements Further Information GLOSSARY OF TERMS APP NET RENTAL INCOME Airport Property Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO and Gross Rental Income less ground rents paid, net service charge expenses Aviva Investors.
COMPLETED PORTFOLIO PASSING RENT The completed investment and trading properties and the Groups share The annual rental income currently receivable on a property as at the of joint ventures completed investment and trading properties.
balance sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE charge income which is netted off against service charge expenses.
The Groups current programme of developments authorised or in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, together with potential PRE-LET schemes not yet commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
EPRA REIT The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate industry body, A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate which has issued Best Practices Recommendations in order to provide Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be consistency and transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing ESTIMATED COST TO COMPLETION qualifications.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status Costs still to be expended on a development or redevelopment to with effect from 1 January 2007. practical completion, including attributable interest.
RENT ROLL ESTIMATED RENTAL VALUE ERV See Passing Rent.
The estimated annual market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
This will normally be different from the SELP rent being paid.
SEGRO European Logistics Partnership, a 50-50 joint venture between SEGRO and Public Sector Pension Investment Board PSP Investments.
GEARING Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity excluding intangible SIIC assets and deferred tax provision.
Socits dinvestissements Immobiliers Cotes are the French equivalent of UK Real Estate Investment Trusts seeREIT.
GROSS RENTAL INCOME Contracted rental income recognised in the period in the income SPECULATIVE DEVELOPMENT statement, including surrender premiums and interest receivable on Where a development has commenced prior to a lease agreement being finance leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted future signed in relation to that development.
rental increases are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
SPPICAV HECTARES HA A Socit fide Placement Prpondrance Immobilire Capital Variable The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
The conversion factor is an alternative corporate means of owning real estate assets in France.
used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
SQUARE METRES SQ M INVESTMENT PROPERTY The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The conversion Completed land and buildings held for rental income return and or factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square metre 10.7639 square feet.
TAKEBACK IPD Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break option, surrender Investment Property Databank is a provider of real estate performance or insolvency.
TOPPED UP NET INITIAL YIELD JOINT VENTURE Net initial yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect of let An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly properties which are subject to a rent free period at the valuation date.
controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN TPR essential to the operation, performance and financial position of the A measure of the ungeared return for the portfolio and is calculated as venture require each partners consent.
the change in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net LOAN TO VALUE LTV income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period Net borrowings divided by the carrying value of total property assets concerned, as calculated by IPD and excluding land.
investment, owner occupied and trading properties.
This is measured TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR either on a look-through basis including joint ventures at share or A measure of return based upon share price movement over the period wholly owned which excludes joint ventures.
and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
LPP TRADING PROPERTY Logistics Property Partnership, a former 50-50 joint venture between Property being developed for sale or one which is being held for sale SEGRO and Moorfield Real Estate Fund II MREFII which was acquired after development is complete.
YIELD ON COST NET TRUE EQUIVALENT YIELD Yield on cost is the expected gross yield based on the estimated current The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the market rental value ERV of the developments when fully let, divided by value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV the book value of the developments at the earlier of commencement of and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over time.
It assumes the development or the balance sheet date plus future development costs that rent is received quarterly in advance.
and estimated finance costs to completion.
NET INITIAL YIELD Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com The printer and paper mill are both accredited with ISO14001 Registered office Environmental Management System and are both Forest SEGRO plc Stewardship Council certified.
Cunard House CPI Colour is a Carbon Neutral printing company.
15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Designed and produced by www.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered number 167591 GO ONLINE To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and figures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication ofbreaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price isalways displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, www.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to find business space that fits their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site.
com OTHER PUBLICATIONS Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2014 Property Analysis Report.
com for this document and further information on Sustainability.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performances, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond SEGROs ability to control or estimate precisely and which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the current regulatory environment.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of SEGRO are based upon the knowledge and information available to Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and SEGROs shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, SEGRO does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
