OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 155 Financial statements Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
ShareGift can also Useful historical information help with larger donations of shares.
Further details about Share history of the company ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
On 20 August 2007, the ordinary share capital was org or by writing to ShareGift at 17 Carlton House Terrace, consolidated on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares of London, SW1Y 5AH, telephone: 44 0 207 930 3737.
1 27 pence for every 13 ordinary shares of 25 pence 12 held on the 17 August 2007.
A special dividend of 53 Dividends pence per share was paid in connection with the A requirement of the REIT regime is that a REIT must consolidation on 31 August 2007. distribute to shareholders by way of dividend at least 90 On 4 March 2009, a rights issue was announced on the per cent of its profits from its tax-exempt UK property basis of 12 new ordinary shares for every existing share rental business calculated under UK tax principles after held on 17 March 2009 at a subscription price of 10 the deduction of interest and capital allowances and 1 pence per share.
Each 27 pence ordinary share in 12 excluding chargeable gains.
Such distributions are referred issue was sub-divided and re-classified into one ordinary to as Property Income Distributions, or PIDs.
Any further share of one pence each and one deferred share of distributions may be paid as ordinary dividends or PIDs, 1 26 pence each.
The deferred shares were created for 12 which are derived from profits earned by its UK, non-REIT technical reasons in order to maintain the aggregate taxable business, as well as its overseas operations.
nominal value of the Companys share capital upon sub-division of its ordinary shares.
The very limited SCRIP Dividend and Dividend Reinvestment Plan rights attached to the deferred shares rendered The Board has recommended the re-introduction of a themeffectively valueless and they were cancelled scrip dividend option SCRIP in respect of cash dividends on8May2009.
including those treated as Property Income Distributions, In relation to the acquisition of Brixton plc, on 24 August which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will allow 2009, SEGRO plc undertook a share consolidation, shareholders who elect to receive the SCRIP, to take the final open offer and private placing.
On 31July 2009, every dividend in shares rather than cash.
Details of the proposed 10 ordinary shares of one pence each were consolidated SCRIP together with information on how shareholders can into one ordinary share of ten pence each and, 0.10484 elect to receive it subject to shareholder approval, will be open offer shares of ten pence each were offered to provided with the Notice of Meeting and will be available every shareholder of SEGRO plc who, on 13 July 2009, on the Companys website www.
If shareholders held ten ordinary shares of one pence each.
The approve the introduction of the SCRIP, it will run for the acquisition of Brixton was conducted by a scheme of three years ending on the earlier of 28 April 2018 and the arrangement.
Brixton shareholders were offered 0.175 beginning of the third AGM of the Company following 29 consideration shares of ten pence each in SEGRO plc for April 2015.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP will be each Brixton share held.
suspended for the 2014 final dividend and for any dividend in respect of which the SCRIP dividend option is offered Shareholder enquiries but will be re-instated for dividends in respect of which the If you have any questions about your shareholding or if Board decides not to offer the SCRIP.
you require further guidance e. g. to notify a change of address please contact Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Withholding tax Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone SEGRO is required to withhold tax at source from its PIDs 44 0 871 384 2186.
Alternatively, you can check your at the basic tax rate 20 per cent.
UK shareholders need shareholding and access dividend information by registering take no immediate action unless they qualify for exemption at www.
co. uk, or you can securely send queries as described below and will receive with each dividend via the website by visiting https: help.
payment a tax deduction certificate stating the amount of tax deducted.
Electronic communications Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to receive UK shareholders who fall into one of the classes of shareholder communications electronically, e. g. Annual shareholder able to claim an exemption from withholding Reports, Notice of the Annual General Meeting and tax may be able to receive a gross PID payment if they Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive email notifications have submitted a valid relevant Exemption Declaration of shareholder communications by registering at www.
form, either as a beneficial owner of the shares, or as an shareview.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate intermediary if the shares are not registered in the name of to receive dividends directly to your bank account and to the beneficial owner, to Equiniti.
The Exemption Declaration submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Receiving form is available at www.
com under Investors the Companys communications electronically allows the Shareholder Information REIT.
A valid declaration form, once Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more submitted, will continue to apply to future payments of PIDs environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
until rescinded, and so it is a shareholders responsibility to notify SEGRO if their circumstances change and they are no AGM longer able to claim an exemption from withholding tax.
The 2014 AGM will be held on 29 April 2015 at RSA Shareholders resident outside the UK may be able to claim a House, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2N 6EZ.
partial refund either as an individual or as a company from HMRC, subject to the terms of a double tax treaty, if any, ShareGift between the UK and the country in which the shareholder ShareGift is a charity registered under the name The is resident.
Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 1052686 which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
Shares which have been donated to ShareGift are aggregated and sold when practicable, with the proceeds
