Financial statements Independent auditors report continued to the members of Redefine International P. L. C. 4.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs UK and Ireland require that we report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified any inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit and Risk Committee report does not appropriately disclose those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The UK Listing Rules require us to review: the Directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 42 to 45 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and certain elements of disclosures in the report to shareholders by the Board of Directors Remuneration Committee.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Basis of our report, responsibilities and restrictions on use As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibility set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors.
An audit undertaken in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financialstatements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Whilst an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland is designed to provide reasonable assurance of identifying material misstatements or omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather the auditor plans the audit to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements does not exceed materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
This testing requires us to conduct significant audit work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, income and expenses as well as devoting significant time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the engagement partner responsible for the audit, tosubjective areas of the accounting and reporting.
Our report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Niamh Marshall For and on behalf of KPMG Chartered Accountants, Statutory Audit Firm 1 Harbourmaster Place International Financial Services Centre Dublin 1 Ireland 28 October 2014 Redefine International P. L. C. 70 Annual Report 2014
