Governance Directors report continued Purchase of own shares and shares in treasury At the 2014 AGM, shareholders granted the Directors authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company in certain circumstances.
Such authority would only be exercised after careful consideration by the Directors andas and when conditions were favourable.
Although legislation in the Isle of Man permitted a company to purchase shares, any shares acquired were deemed to be cancelled immediately on acquisition.
On 1 July 2014, new legislation was passed allowing a company to hold shares intreasury.
During the financial year and up until the date of this document, no shares were purchased and no shares were held intreasury.
Notified shareholdings As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of or was otherwise aware of the following persons, other than the Directors themselves, who, directly or indirectly, were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of theCompany.
Shareholder Percentage held Redefine Properties Limited 30.03 Allan Gray Unit Trust Management Proprietary Limited effective 31 August 2014 4.33 Directors appointment and Directors powers Subject to the IOM Act, the Articles and any directions given by special resolution of the Company, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which shall exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business or not.
Subject to the provisions of the IOM Act and the Articles, the Board shall have the power to appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed must retire at the next AGM and put themselves forward for reelection by the shareholders.
In addition to any power of removal conferred by the IOM Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period in office, and by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing to act to be a Director in his place.
Significant agreements There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs during a takeover bid.
However, in the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement, demerger or winding up of the Company, any awards made to the Executive Directors under the performance share plan will vest early, subject to the relevant performance targets being met and at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Amendment of Articles The Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Political donations During the period Redefine International made no political donations.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions This is the first year that the Company has reported on GHG Emissions.
The reporting period for the year ended 31August2014 has been used to establish a base year benchmark the Base Year, in line with the Companys financialyear.
Data has been compiled following the guidance from the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC and Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
The guidance provides emission factors for reportable fuels and gasses and these figures have been used in compiling this report.
Annual quantity of emissions This report is based on the control approach method for all activities where Redefine International and its subsidiaries and agents have operational control.
It should be noted that Scope 3 reporting is dependent on tenant, supplier and contractor cooperation and transparency with the information they provide.
No Scope 3 emissions have been reported this year.
Redefine International P. L. C. 64 Annual Report 2014
