Company information Company information Portfolio analysis Redefine International P. L. C. 145 Annual Report 2014 Combined portfolio including share of jointly controlled entities Gross % of Market value Annualised estimated Weighted Voids portfolio by 31 August Area gross rental market Net average Voids by lettable 2 market value 2014 Properties m income rental value initial yield lease length by ERV area UK Commercial Portfolio 14.3% 143,753,950 64 104,345 11,725,158 10,571,713 7.4% 7.8 2.5% 1.7% UK Retail Portfolio 33.7% 338,194,000 7 175,701 27,350,136 28,991,263 6.6% 9.7 5.0% 4.6% Hotels 19.3% 193,950,000 8 30,887 12,011,160 11,950,000 5.9% 12.4 0.9% 1.9% Europe 25.8% 258,407,421 23 96,733 16,967,160 15,922,073 5.7% 6.8 0.4% 0.6% Total excl.
Effective shareholding shown under % ownership.
Company information Company information Investment policy Key principles of the investment policy Redefine Internationals investment policy is to provide investors with strong investment returns and a balanced exposure to lower risk income generating assets and opportunities that will provide a higher capital return.
In implementing its investment policy, Redefine International will contemplate available opportunities and future undertakings that will yield satisfactory returns at acceptable risk levels.
In making investments Redefine International will seek to achieve a reasonable level of diversification across a spread of assets and geographies.
The Group currently has investments in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands, the Channel Islands and Australia concentrating on the retail, government, commercial office and industrial and hotel sectors.
Investment criteria Redefine International will focus on property investments which provide a stable, predictable and low risk income stream, with opportunities to enhance value through active management: Redefine International will also selectively pursue development or redevelopment opportunities where they can be prelet to businesses with strong rental covenants or in order to protect, enhance or extract additional value from existing investments: and Redefine International may also look at distressed property investments where opportunities arise as markets recover.
Investments outside the above criteria will only be made where risk adjusted returns to shareholders are satisfactory and Redefine International has the reserves necessary to extract an abovemarket return from the investments.
Redefine International will make investments in property via a number of methods which include: acquisition of the real estate assets or portfolio of assets: direct investment in or acquisition of the holding company of the real estate asset or portfolio of assets: direct investment in or acquisition of a joint venture vehicle which has a direct investment in or holds the real estate assets or the holding company of the real estate asset or portfolio of assets: and investments in property securities debt and or equity securities which are acquired when their value is considered superior to physical property.
These investments are often of a strategic nature where the shareholding can be used to unlock value in underlying property assets or significant influence can be exerted through board representation or through management.
Gearing The level of gearing of Redefine International will be governed by careful consideration of the cost of borrowing and the ability to mitigate the risk of interest rate increases and the effect of leverage on the returns generated from assets acquired.
Redefine Internationals directors intend that Redefine Internationals level of borrowing will be between 5065% of the gross value of its total assets through the cycle but will not exceed 85% of the gross value of Redefine Internationals total assets at any point in time.
Details of Redefine Internationals borrowing limits under its Articles of Association are set outbelow.
Redefine Internationals Board may exercise all the powers of Redefine International to borrow money, to give guarantees, to mortgage, hypothecate, pledge or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of Redefine International and, subject to the provisions of the IOM Act and the Articles, to create and issue debenture and other loan stock and debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Redefine International or of any third party.
Provided that Redefine International shall restrict the borrowings of Redefine International so as to secure that the aggregate principal amount for the time being of all borrowings by Redefine International and for the time being owing to persons outside Redefine International shall not at any time, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of Redefine International exceed ten times the aggregate of: the amount paid up on the issued share capital for the time being of the Company: and the total of capital and revenue reserves including any share premium account, capital redemption reserve, all as shown in the latest balance sheet of the Enlarged Company.
Redefine International P. L. C. 147 Annual Report 2014 Company information Investment policy continued Investment restrictions Redefine International will not invest in forward funding a development on land in which Redefine International does not have an interest without a prelet agreement to lease: Redefine International will not invest in properties where the purchase price is not supported by an external valuation: Redefine International will not invest in properties where there are known to be material environmental issues: Redefine International will typically invest in properties in the UK with fully repairing and insuring leases: and No more than 15% in aggregate, of the value of the total assets of Redefine International may be invested in property securities provided that if such listed closedended investment funds themselves do not have a published investment policy limiting exposure to other listed closedended investment funds to 15% of total assets, the maximum exposure of the group shall be 10% of its total assets.
In addition, pursuant to the UKLA Listing Rules, Redefine International is subject to the following investment restrictions: Redefine International must at all times manage its assets in a way which is consistent with its object of spreading investment risk and is in accordance with the Companys published investment policy: and Redefine International and other members of Redefine International must not conduct any trading activity which is significant in the context of Redefine International as a whole.
Investment process Redefine Internationals Directors set the investment policy subject to shareholder approval, parameters and objectives and review and approve each sale or purchase of investment assets.
Redefine Internationals Investment Adviser is responsible for identifying and reporting to the Enlarged Companys Directors, the availability of new investment opportunities that fall within the investment policy and objectives.
Following the identification of a potential new investment opportunity and approval by the Enlarged Companys Directors, the Investment Adviser is responsible for negotiating the terms of investment.
It is anticipated that all associated costs and expenses incurred by Redefine International when acquiring or disposing of properties, property portfolios or special purpose property vehicles will be paid for and capitalised by Redefine International in order to determine the total cost.
Changes to the investment policy Redefine International will apply its investment policy to all investments made and held by it.
Any material changes to the investment policy of Redefine International will only be made with the approval of shareholders by ordinary resolution at a general meeting, which will also be notified via a regulatory information service provider to the London Stock Exchange.
If Redefine International breaches its investment policy including any investment restrictions, Redefine International will make a notification via a regulatory information service provider to the London Stock Exchange of details of the breach and of actions it may or may have taken.
Redefine International P. L. C. 148 Annual Report 2014 Company information Glossary AGM NAV The Annual General Meeting of the Company Net asset value Articles PSP The Memorandum of Association and the Articles of Association of the Longterm Performance Share Plan awarded to the Executive Directors Company, as amended from time to time RECML AUD Redefine Earls Court Management Limited Australian Dollar made up of 100 cents RedefineBDL Aviva RedefineBDL Hotel Group Limited, the holding company for the hotel Aviva Commercial Finance Limited management group Board Redefine International, the Company or the Group The Board of Directors of Redefine International Redefine International P. L. C. the Enlarged Company following the reverse acquisition between Wichford and Redefine International plc Cromwell Cromwell Property Group is an Australian Securities Exchange listed stapled Redefine Properties Limited Redefine Properties security ASX:CMW comprising the Cromwell Corporation Limited and Listed on the JSE, 30.03% shareholder of the Company Cromwell Property Securities Limited, which acts as the responsible entity RHH ofthe Cromwell Diversified Property Trust.
au Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited EPRA RHML European Public Real Estate Association Redefine Hotel Management Limited ERV RIHL The estimated market rental value of lettable space which could reasonably Redefine International Holdings Limited.
The previously AIM listed property beexpected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review investment company party to the reverse acquisition previously named ESG Redefine International plc Environmental Social and Governance RIMH FCTR Redefine International Management Holdings Limited previously Redefine Foreign Currency Translation Reserve International Fund Managers Limited.
The parent entity of RIPML Finance lease RIPML A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Redefine International Property Management Limited.
The Investment Adviser fromthe lessor to the lessee to the Company GDP Revpar Gross domestic product Revenue per available room calculated by multiplying the hotels average daily room rate by its occupancy rate Grand Arcade Grand Arcade Shopping Centre in Wigan, UK RSP Restricted Stock Plan awarded to employees IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards TSR Total shareholder return.
The growth in value of the Companys share over Interest rate swap a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate additional shares obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by the Group to convert floatingrate debt or investments to fixed rates UKREIT A UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
A REIT must be a publicly quoted IOM company with at least threequarters of its profits and assets derived from a Isle of Man qualifying property rental business.
Income and capital gains from the property JSE rental business are exempt from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at JSE Limited, licensed as an exchange and a public company incorporated least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on in terms of the laws of South Africa and the operator of the Johannesburg nonqualifying activities in the normal way StockExchange WAULT LIBOR Weighted average unexpired lease term The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank Weston Favell toanother for lending money Weston Favell Shopping Centre in Northampton, UK LSE West Orchards The London Stock Exchange plc West Orchards Shopping Centre in Coventry, UK LTV Loan to value.
A ratio of debt divided by the market value of investmentproperty Printed on Magno Satin.
Thepulp used in this product is bleached using a totally chlorine free process TCF or elemental chlorine free process ECF and is produced in a mill that is certified to ISO 14001 environmental management standards.
This paper is from responsible sources.
Designed and produced by www.
com Redefine International P. L. C. www.
