152 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Investment portfolio Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three-quarters of its subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis where not wholly owned.
profits and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income Adjusted net asset value NAV per share and capital gains from the property rental business are exempt from tax but the NAV per share adjusted to remove the effect of the fide-recognition of the 2004 Joint venture REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to shareholders.
An entity in which the Group holds an interest and is jointly controlled by the bond exchange and cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions Rental income on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and Adjusted net debt Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on an accruals basis, and financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
Net debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on interest-rate swaps, adjusted for the spreading of lease incentives over the term certain of the lease the adjustment arising from the fide-recognition of the bond exchange and Lease incentives in accordance with SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of ground amounts payable under finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive rents and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park and will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to fit-out or similar subsidiaries and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
For accounting purposes the value of the incentive is spread over the Average unexpired lease term Rental value change non-cancellable life of the lease.
The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other than short-term Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined by the Groups lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, temporary lettings of less LIBOR external valuers, over the reporting period on a like-for-like basis.
than one year, residential leases and long ground leases.
The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one bank to Return on average capital employed another for lending money, often used as a reference rate in bank facilities.
Book value Group profit before interest, plus joint venture profit before interest, divided by the Like-for-like managed properties The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial average capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus adjusted net debt.
Properties in the like-for-like portfolio other than those in our joint ventures statements.
Return on average equity which we do not manage operationally.
BREEAM Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average equity Like-for-like portfolio Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method.
The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been in the Combined portfolio Revenue profit portfolio since 1 April 2012, but excluding those which are acquired, sold or The combined portfolio comprises the investment properties of the Groups Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current assets and included in the development pipeline at any time since that date.
subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis when not wholly owned, trading properties, profits on long-term development contracts, valuation Loan-to-value LTV together with our share of investment properties held in our joint ventures.
movements, fair value movements on interest-rate swaps and similar Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including subsidiaries and joint Unless stated otherwise, references are to the combined portfolio when the instruments used for hedging purposes, the adjustment to interest payable ventures, to the sum of the market value of investment properties and the book investment property business is discussed.
resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition value of trading properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, all adjustment, debt restructuring charges and any items of an unusual nature.
Completed developments on a proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the Security Group, Completed developments consist of those properties previously included in Reversionary or under-rented LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security Group divided by the value of the development programme, which have been transferred from the Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Reversionary yield Market value Development pipeline The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent Market value is determined by the Groups external valuers, in accordance with The development programme together with proposed developments.
the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion of the estimated amount for which Development programme a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer Scrip dividend The development programme consists of committed developments Board and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing.
A scrip dividend is when shareholders are offered the opportunity to receive approved projects with the building contract let, authorised developments dividends in the form of shares instead of cash.
Mark-to-market adjustment Board approved, projects under construction and developments which have An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its Security Group reached practical completion within the last two years but are not yet 95% let.
market value see also fair value movement.
Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for Land Securities and Diluted figures properties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for the benefit of lenders.
Net asset value NAV per share It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially dilutive shares Equity attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the number of ordinary issuable under employee share schemes.
Temporary lettings shares in issue at the period end.
Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included within voids.
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Net initial yield This is when shareholders are offered the opportunity to use cash dividends Topped-up net initial yield Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers of the yield that received to purchase additional shares in the company immediately after the Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuers.
would be received by a purchaser, based on the Estimated Net Rental Income dividend payment date.
It is calculated by making an adjustment to net initial yield in respect of the expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other Earnings per share EPS assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line lease incentives.
The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the Parent divided by the with EPRA guidance.
weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Total business return Estimated Net Rental Income is the passing cash rent less ground rent at the Dividend paid per share, plus the change in adjusted diluted net asset value per EPRA balance sheet date, estimated non-recoverable outgoings and void costs share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning European Public Real Estate Association.
including service charges, insurance costs and void rates.
EPRA net initial yield Outline planning consent Total cost ratio This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters such as use EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice Recommendations Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than as the annualised rental income based on the cash rents passing at the balance and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided in an rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the application for reserved matters approval, including detailed layout, scale, income before rents payable.
gross market value of the property.
It is consistent with the net initial yield appearance, access and landscaping, before a project can proceed.
An outline planning permission will lapse if the submission of reserved matters have not calculated by the Groups external valuers.
Total development cost TDC been made within three years, or if it has not been implemented within three Total development cost refers to the book value of the site at the Equivalent yield years or within two years of the final approval of reserved matters, unless commencement of the project, the estimated capital expenditure required to Calculated by the Groups external valuers, equivalent yield is the internal rate otherwise expressly stated within conditions attached to the permission itself or, develop the scheme from the start of the financial year in which the property is of return from an investment property, based on the gross outlays for the for any permissions granted on or before 1 October 2009, a successful application added to our development programme, together with capitalised interest, being purchase of a property including purchase costs, reflecting reversions to has been made to extend the time within which reserved matters application the Groups borrowing costs associated with direct expenditure on the property current market rent and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure can be submitted, or the overall limit for commencement of development.
Interest is also capitalised on the purchase cost of land or but ignoring future changes in capital value.
The calculation assumes rent is property where it is acquired specifically for redevelopment.
The TDC for trading Over-rented received annually in arrears.
property development schemes excludes any estimated tax on disposal.
Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
ERV Gross estimated rental value Total property return Passing cash rent The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually Valuation movement, profit loss on property sales and net rental income in by the Groups external valuers.
The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date which includes respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening book estimates of turnover rent and estimates of rent to be agreed in respect of Fair value movement value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure incurred outstanding rent review or lease renewal negotiations.
Passing cash rent may An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to during the current year, on the combined property portfolio.
be more or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Passing its market value see also mark-to-market adjustment.
cash rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in administration save to Total Shareholder Return TSR Finance lease The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that the extent that rents are expected to be received.
Void units and units that are A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership from dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
in a rent-free period at the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash the lessor to the lessee.
Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated as void, Trading properties income from temporary lets is included in passing cash rents.
Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets in the Gearing balance sheet.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, Pre-development properties corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus cumulative fair value movements Pre-development properties are those properties within the like-for-like Turnover rent on financial derivatives as a percentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, portfolio which are being managed to align vacant possession within a three Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
see note 21 in the financial statements.
year horizon with a view to redevelopment.
Voids Gross market value Pre-let Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all unlet space, Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
including voids where refurbishment work is being carried out and voids in respect of pre-development properties.
Temporary lettings for a period of one Head lease Property income distribution PID year or less are also treated as voids.
A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to Weighted average cost of capital WACC Interest Cover Ratio ICR its shareholders.
Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, used as a benchmark A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest payments on to assess investment returns.
It is calculated using revenue profit before interest, divided Proposed developments by net interest excluding the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate Proposed developments are properties which have not yet received final Board Yield shift swaps, bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised interest and interest on the approval or are still subject to main planning conditions being satisfied, but A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
pension scheme assets and liabilities.
The calculation excludes joint ventures.
which are more likely to proceed than not.
Zone A Interest-rate swap Qualifying activities Qualifying assets A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest rate The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable zone, Zone A, obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are generally used by the income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment income and capital gains is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the Group to convert floating-rate debt or investments to fixed rates.
Land Securities Group PLC forward-looking StatementS Copyright and trade mark notices All rights reserved.
Copyright 2014 Land Securities this annual report and the land securities website may contain certain Group PLC.
forward-looking statements with respect to the land securities Group PlC and Land Securities, LandSecurities stylised, the Groups financial condition, results of its operations and business, and certain the Cornerstones logo and Making of land securities Group PlCs and the Groups plans, strategy, objectives, goals Property Work, are trade marks of Land and expectations with respect to these items and the economies and markets in Securities Group PLC.
which land securities Group operates.
All other trade marks and registered Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by trade marks are the property of their their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, respective owners.
may, should, will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal Produced by Brightsource Limited, a Cello Signal company.
or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Printed by CPI Colour.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently This report is printed on Naturalis Absolute unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to White Smooth paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
many of these Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
there are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
these factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under iFrss, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
any written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this annual report, or the land securities website or made subsequently, which are attributable to land securities Group PlC or any other member of the Group or Design: persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the saslondon.
com factors referred to above.
each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the Words: date it is made.
except as required by its legal or statutory obligations, land Tim Rich securities Group PlC does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Photography: Greg Funnell Luke Hayes Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand, London WC2N 5AF T 44 0 20 7413 9000 E investor.
