co. uk annual report 2014 Summary Report by the valuer To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLc In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a In accordance with the provisions of VPGA 8 of the Red Book, valuation of the various commercial and residential freehold and inundertaking our valuations, we have lotted together certain long leasehold property interests as at 30 September 2014 the individual properties to form a separate property a Property date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, or Properties in the manner we consider to be most likely to Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
We consider that lotting Limited, Shaftesbury Soho Limited and Shaftesbury CL Limited, the properties together on the basis reflected in our valuations which are subsidiary companies collectively referred to as the would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, advantages and opportunities available from such as referred to in our Valuation Reports dated 25 November 2014 comprehensive ownership.
Our Reports were prepared for accounts purposes.
A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies All properties have been subject to external inspections between properties and Properties is accounted for by properties and March and November 2014 and a number were subject to Properties situated in adjacent and or adjoining locations in four internal inspections.
specific areas of the West End of London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area immediately west of The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, appropriate sections of the Professional Standards PS, RICS and the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent Global Valuation Practice Statements VPS, RICS Global Garden and a block of properties to the east of the Central Valuation Practice Guidance Applications VPGAs and United Covent Garden Piazza with its main frontage to Wellington Kingdom Valuation Standards UKVS contained within the Street.
These areas are all dominated by retail and restaurant RICS Valuation - Professional Standards 2014 UK Edition, the uses.
In our opinion, at the date of valuation, this particular Red Book.
It follows that the valuations are compliant with unusual confluence of ownership and use characteristics may International Valuation Standards.
We confirm that we have cause some prospective purchasers to regard parts of the sufficient current knowledge of the relevant markets, and the portfolio when combined as having a greater value than the skills and understanding to undertake these valuations aggregate of the individual values of the combined properties competently.
We also confirm that where more than one valuer and Properties which make up those parts.
has contributed to the valuations the requirements of VS 1.6.
4 of the Red Book have been satisfied.
Finally, we confirm that we As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking have undertaken the valuations acting as External Valuers, our valuations, we have valued each property or Property qualified for the purpose of the valuation.
separately, rather than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The total valuation figure below is the In accordance with PS 2.8 and UKVS 4, we are required to make aggregated value of the separate properties or Properties within certain disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction the various categories of tenure referred to below.
and our relationship with the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Charles Smith is the signatory of our Reports.
This All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed is the third time that he has been signatory of valuation reports Fair Value in accordance with VPS 4.1.
addressed to the Subsidiary Companies.
DTZ Debenham Tie Our opinion of the Fair Value of each of the properties or Leung has been carrying out this valuation instruction for the Properties has been primarily derived using comparable recent Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous market transactions on arms length terms.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for undertake valuations of certain of the properties referred to in any tax liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of our Reports for other purposes, such as secured lending and for the properties or Properties.
We have made deductions to inclusion in shareholders circulars.
There have been no reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
fee-earning instructions between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations the Company or the Subsidiary Companies other than valuation and details of the sources of information are contained within instructions for in excess of three years.
As at the date of valuation DTZ Debenham Tie Leung was a UGL Company.
In UGLs financial year ending 30 June 2014, the We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of proportion of fees payable by the Company to the total fee properties, either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The income of UGL was less than 5%.
DTZ became a stand alone, Company, its managing agents or professional advisers have private global property services company on 5 November 2014, provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or following the sale to TPG Capital Management.
DTZs financial parts of properties.
We anticipate that the proportion of fees payable by the Company to DTZ in the financial year to 30 June 2015 will remain at less than 5%.
#120 summary report by the Valuer continued otHer iNforMatioN We have read the majority of the leases and related documents Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the provided to us in respect of the commercial properties.
Where aggregates of the Fair Values, as at 30 September 2014, of the we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the provided by the Company, its managing agents or professional Company and the Subsidiary Companies, subject to the advisers.
Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated 25 November 2014, were as follows:- Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at 30 September 2014, or were subject to outstanding retentions Freehold 2,238,640,000 and fees in respect of projects already completed at that date.
Properties Inthese instances, the Company advised us of the amount of the Two billion, two hundred and thirty-eight outstanding costs.
The costs will be borne by the Company as they million, six hundred and forty thousand are not recoverable from tenants.
We have reflected these costs pounds in our valuations.
The total amount of such costs is 11,484,895 Long leasehold 195,920,000 and details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
Properties One hundred and ninety-five million, nine As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual hundred and twenty thousand pounds properties to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case Total 2,434,560,000 of three Properties which comprise a number of individual Two billion, four hundred and thirtyproperties, the majority of such properties are held freehold but four million, five hundred and sixty certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to divide our thousand pounds valuation of these Properties between the categories of freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional apportionments A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Soho Limited and have been included in the figures representing the freehold and Shaftesbury CL Limited, for the specific purpose to which they long leasehold categories to the right.
The amounts arising from refer and are for their use only.
Consequently, and in accordance the notional apportionments do not themselves represent the with current practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other Fair Value of the two elements.
party in respect of the whole or any part of the contents of our The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a Reports or this summary report.
Before our Reports or this freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred within the freehold and have not merged the interests.
For the to, in any document, circular or statement, and before their purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have contents, or any part thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise included such properties within the freehold category.
to a third party, the valuers written approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such, approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is referred to by name and whether or not the contents of our Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
Charles Smith MRICS International Director RICS Registered Valuer For and on behalf of DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited 125 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1AR #121
