co. uk annual report 2014 Glossary of terms Annual General Meeting AGM EPRA net assets Loan-to-value The annual general meeting held on 7 February Net assets used in the EPRA NAV calculation, Nominal value of borrowings expressed as a 2014 2014 AGM or the annual general meeting excluding additional equity if all vested share percentage of the fair value of property assets.
to be held on 6 February 2015 2015 AGM London Benchmarking Group LBG EPRA triple net asset value LBG is a global network of 150 companies using Building Research Establishment EPRA NAV incorporating the fair value of debt the LBG Model to improve the management, Environmental Assessment Method which is not included in the reported net assets.
measurement and reporting of corporate social BREEAM investment.
BREEAM sets the standard for best practice in EPRA vacancy sustainable building design, construction and The rental value of vacant property available Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP operation.
Buildings are assessed on a broad expressed as a percentage of ERV of the total An arrangement under which an employee is range of environmental factors and can be given portfolio.
awarded options in the Company at nil cost, ratings ranging from pass to outstanding.
subject to a period of continued employment and Equivalent yield the attainment of NAV and TSR targets over a Capital value return Equivalent yield is the internal rate of return from three-year vesting period.
The valuation movement and realised surpluses an investment property, based on the gross outlays or deficits arising from the Groups investment for the purchase of a property including purchase Net asset value NAV portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the costs, reflecting reversions to current market Equity shareholders funds divided by the number valuation at the beginning of the year adjusted for rent, and such items as voids and non-recoverable of ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
expenditure but disregarding potential changes Net asset value return inmarket rents.
Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR The change in EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus The year-on-year growth rate of an investment European Public Real Estate Association dividends paid per ordinary share expressed as a over a specified period of time.
percentage of the EPRA NAV per share at the EPRA beginning of the year.
EPRA develops policies for standards of reporting Conservation area disclosure, ethics and industry practices.
A conservation area is an area of special 2 Operational Energy kg CO m 2 architectural interest, the character or This is the carbon dioxide produced in supplying Estimated rental value ERV appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or energy for the day-to-day operation of a building.
ERV is the market rental value of properties enhance.
In dealing with development in owned by the Group, estimated by the Groups conservation areas, the general aim of Property Income Distribution PID valuers.
authorities is to ensure that the quality of A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its townscape is preserved or enhanced, though shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
A REIT Fair value legislation gives protection to individual buildings is required to distribute at least 90% of its The amount at which an asset or liability could considered to be of particular heritage, qualifying profits as a PID to its shareholders.
beexchanged between two knowledgeable willing significance and value to an area.
unconnected parties in an arms length Real Estate Investment Trust REIT transaction at the valuation date.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI A REIT is a tax designation for an entity or group A global benchmark for investors who integrate investing in real estate that reduces or eliminates Gearing sustainability into their portfolios.
corporation tax on rental profits or chargeable Nominal value of Group borrowings expressed gains relating to the rental business, providing asa percentage of EPRA net assets.
EPRA adjustments certain criteria obligations set out in tax Standard adjustments to calculate EPS and NAV Global Real Estate Sustainability legislation are met.
as set out by EPRA in its Best Practice and Policy Benchmark GRESB Recommendations.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e Organisation which assesses the sustainability 2 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, which is a ofreal estate portfolios around the world.
EPRA EPS measure that allows the comparison of EPRA EPS is the level of recurring income arising Initial yield emissions from other greenhouse gases relative from core operational activities.
It excludes all The initial yield is the net initial income at the to one unit of CO.
It is calculated by multiplying 2 items which are not relevant to the underlying date of valuation expressed as a percentage of the greenhouse gas emissions by its 100-year and recurring portfolio performance.
Yields reflect net income global warming potential.
after deduction of any ground rents, head rents, EPRA NAV Total Shareholder Return TSR rent charges and estimated irrecoverable EPRA NAV aims to provide a consistent The change in the market price of an ordinary outgoings.
long-term performance measure, by adjusting share plus dividends reinvested expressed as a reported net assets for items that are not Interest cover percentage of the share price at the beginning of expected to crystallise in normal circumstances, The interest cover is a measure of the number the year.
such as the fair value of derivative financial oftimes the Group can make interest payments instruments and deferred tax on property with its operating profit before investment valuation surpluses.
EPRA NAV includes the property disposals and valuation movements.
potentially dilutive effect of outstanding options granted over ordinary shares.
Like-for-like portfolio The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties that have been held throughout the accounting period.
#122 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified: its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on munken polar, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp is bleached using both Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and Totally Chlorine Free TCF processes.
co. uk} Print: Park Communication {www.
co. uk} Shaftesbury Annual report 2014 PABLO PICASSO SHAFTESBURY PLC 22 Ganton Street, Carnaby, London W1F 7FD T: 020 7333 8118 F: 020 3667 8051 shaftesbury.
