124 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GLOSSARY OF TERMS BWPT BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint Loan to value is the current loan balance divided by venture property fund with the BlackRock UK Property the current value of properties secured on the loan.
Fund in which the Group holds a 20.1% interest.
Market rental values see ERV.
Cash rent roll is the current net rents receivable for Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided occupied units.
by the number of shares at the period end.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation Net bank debt is the amount drawn on bank facilities, divided by the weighted average number of shares including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
in issue during the period.
Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total net lettable area excluding land used for EPRA NAV is a definition of net asset value as set out open storage.
by the European Public Real Estate Association.
It represents net assets after excluding mark to market Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which adjustments of effective cash flow hedges financial the sale of an interest in the property would complete derivatives and deferred tax relating to revaluation unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of movements, capital allowances and derivatives.
valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
Equivalent Yield is a weighted average of the initial Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all yield and reversionary yield and represents the return expenditure other than taxation.
a property will produce based upon the timing of the occupancy of the property and timing of the income Property Income Distribution PID a dividend receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary generally subject to withholding tax that a UK REIT is yield multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
required to pay from its tax-exempted property rental business and which is taxable for UK resident Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review.
UK Finance Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay no corporation tax on profits derived from their Exceptional items are significant items of income or property rental business.
expense that by virtue of their size, incidence or nature are shown separately on the Income Statement to enable a Rent per sq.
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Rent roll see cash rent roll.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, where the net Gearing on adjusted net assets is the Groups net debt rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The as a percentage of net assets excluding mark to market increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant derivative adjustments.
space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which by the portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the of its valuation.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by operating profit.
Small and medium sized enterprises SMEs are those businesses with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a of less than 50.
Most Workspace customers are SME company that produces an independent benchmark businesses with staffing of up to 20. of property returns.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained IPD Universe is the IPD quarterly universe property fund by a shareholder calculated by combining both share benchmark of approximately 250 50bn UK domestic price movements and dividend receipts.
Trading profit after interest is net rental income, LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London joint venture trading income and finance income, Interbank Offer Rate.
less administrative expenses, less finance costs.
Like-for-like are those properties that have been Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated held throughout a 12 month period and have not counted only once visitors to a website over the been subject to a refurbishment or redevelopment course of a specified time period.
programme in the last 24 months.
