co. uk annual report 2014 Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The directors are responsible for preparing of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the Annual Report, the Remuneration governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Report and the financial statements in statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with applicable law and The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and regulations.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial pages 56 to 57 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in company law the directors must not approve the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company the Group: and and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Strategic Report contained on pages 1 to 53 of the Annual these financial statements, the directors are required to: Report includes a fair review of the development and sel ect suitable accounting policies and then apply them performance of the business and the position of the Group, consistently: together with a description ofthe principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
mak e judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable andprudent: s tate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and pr epare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
