78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Forming Part of the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation Cineworld Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in jointly controlled entities.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 118 to 124.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial period are set out below.
Information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 18 to 25 and the Risksand Uncertainties section on pages 26 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 18 to 25.
In addition Note21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern At the period end the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term loanand a revolving facility see Note 17 to the financial statements.
As part of the combination with CCI, Cineworld Group plc restructured its debt financing, an element of which was drawn to part settle the cash consideration of 272m.
The residual of the facility has been drawn to refinance the existing facilities of the combined Group and to fund general working capital requirements going forward.
The new facility provides funding of 400m of which 275m is term loan and 125m is a revolving credit facility.
160m 192m of the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting the composition of the combined Group.
This new financing arrangement became effective on 10 January 2014, but the new facility was not drawn and the existing facility was not repaid until 27 February 2014.
At the Year End the Group had utilised 275mof the term and 44m of the revolving credit facility.
The current bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent EBITDA to net finance charges.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facility, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
Measurement Convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the income statement or as available for sale.
The financial information of subsidiaries is included in the consolidated financial information from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
Jointly Controlled Entities Equity Accounted Investees Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 79 1.
Accounting Policies continued Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only tothe extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Use of non-GAAP Profit and Loss Measures The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures: Adjusted EBITDA.
Provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial period.
Adjusted EBITDA comprises of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, onerous lease and other non-recurring or non-cash property charges, transaction and reorganisation costs, defined benefit scheme indexation gain and refinancing costs.
Adjusted pro-forma earnings comprises profit after tax adjusted for certain non-recurring, non-cash items and foreign exchange as set out in Note 5.
Adjusted pro-forma earnings is an internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects theunderlying performance of the Group.
A statutory tax rate is used, as tax is considered to be an external factor affecting earnings, which management are unable to influence.
Net debt represents net borrowings and derivatives.
Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assetsand liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translatedat foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of thetransactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations after 23 August 2004 the date of incorporation are takendirectly to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fairvalue of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensiveincome.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income immediately.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Non-Derivative Financial Instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables were initially measured on the basis of their fair value.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised costusing the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of thereceivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as financeleases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower oftheir fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases.
These leased assets are not recognised in the Groups balance sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income to write assets down to their residual values on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are asfollows: Land and buildings: freehold properties 50 years Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 3 to 16 years Fixtures and fittings 3 to 16 years Motor vehicles 3 to 6 years No depreciation is provided on assets held for sale or on assets in the course of construction.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets as part of the cost of that asset.
The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect to the construction of new sites.
Business Combinations For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred including the fair value of any previously-held equity interest in the acquire and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 81 1.
Accounting Policies continued Intangible Assets and Goodwill Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Distribution rights are amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% in each of the two subsequent years.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Brands 10 to 20 years Distribution rights 3 years Other intangibles 5 to 10 years Non-current Assets Held for Sale A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset a disposal group is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss isallocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the above policy is effective from 28 December 2012: no reclassifications are made in prior periods.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out FIFO principle.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated sellingcosts.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwillallocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
A cash generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent ofthe cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Reversals of Impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as a result of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits Defined Contribution Pension Plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement asincurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
To calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income OCI The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the then-net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions andbenefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in profit or loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service or the gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlementof a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date using the Black-Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Theamount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture isdue only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to employees.
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee isrecognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spreadover the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The fair value of the share appreciation rights is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Government Grants Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant.
They are then recognised in profit or loss as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust EBT Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information.
In particular, the trusts purchase of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 83 1.
Accounting Policies continued Revenue Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-Group transactions.
All theGroups revenue is received from the sale of goods.
Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
Advertising revenue is recognised over the period the advert is shown in cinemas.
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance.
When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year.
Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other Income Other income represents rent receivable.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses Operating Lease Payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over theterm of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Net Financing Costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on onerous lease provisions, finance lease interest, net gain loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concernedhave not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount are deferred and recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease liabilities on the Groups balance sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concernedhave been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the income statement on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent lease back has been completed at fair value.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expectedmanner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Operating Segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated tothe segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In applying the Groups accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Onerous Leases Provision is made for onerous leases on acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, where it is considered that the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations are in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it.
The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuingto operating the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it.
When calculating the provision for an onerous lease the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flowsto be generated from that cinema site.
It is also required to discount these cash flows using an appropriate discount rate.
Theresulting provision is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions however, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by onerous cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with these cash flows.
Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the estimate seeNote 20.
Virtual Print Fees A Virtual Print Fee VPF represents a discount from the cost Cineworld pays for film rental and reflects the cost saving to the studios of the move to digital.
A VPF is receivable the first time a film is played in a digital format on a screen rather than using 35mm film.
A VPF is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to and is included in cost of sales as a reduction of the film hirecosts.
VPFs are expected to be received until between 2015 and 2016, dependent upon the rate of screenings of films on which VPF income is earned.
The income recognition criteria are complex as they include the number, type and timing of screenings and the recognition of the income on an accruals basis does not necessarily match the cash received.
Impairment of Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of thecash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate ofthe expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit that holds the goodwill at a determined discount rate to calculate thepresent value of those cash flows.
Forecasting expected cash flows, and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation, however managementhas also applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates which does not affect the outcome see Note 11.
Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated.
Estimating the value in use requiresthe Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating units that holds the tangible fixed assets at a determined discount rate to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
When reviewing fixed assets for impairment, the Group is required to make certain assumptions about the future cash flows to begenerated from the individual cinema sites.
The resulting calculation is therefore very sensitive to these assumptions.
However, the Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the cinema sites, and that the discount rate used is appropriategiven the risks associated with these cash flows.
Management has applied sensitivity analysis to the estimates seeNote 10.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 85 1.
Accounting Policies continued Employee Post Retirement Benefit Obligations The Group has two defined benefit pension plans.
The obligations under these plans are recognised in the balance sheet and represent the present value of the obligations calculated by independent actuaries, with input from management.
These actuarial valuations include assumptions such as discount rates, return on assets, salary progression and mortality rates.
These assumptionsvary from time to time according to prevailing economic and social conditions.
Details of the assumptions used are provided in Note 19.
Management consider that the assumptions used are the most appropriate but recognise that the resulting pension liability is verysensitive to these assumptions.
Deferred Tax Assets The Group recognises deferred tax assets for temporary differences arising at the balance sheet date.
The Group applies estimates when calculating the carrying value of these assets and considering whether future taxable profits are sufficient to ensure their recoverability.
Judgements In addition, the Directors are required to make certain judgements when applying the Groups accounting policies described above.
The key judgements are: Finance and Operating Leases When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 Leases when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease, and in most cases the outcome is clear.
Hedging Arrangements The Group enters into interest rate swaps to fix a portion of its exposure to variable interest rates on its loan arrangements.
In order to apply the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments, the Group must consider the effectiveness of itshedging arrangements when deciding whether it can hedge account.
Other Area of Significant Judgement During 2014, management also consider that the following require significant judgement: The valuation on acquisition of the Cinema City intangible assets see Notes 9 and 11.
New Standards and Interpretations The Directors considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Groupthat are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
The Directors anticipate that all of the relevant pronouncements will be adopted in the Groups accounting policies for the first period beginning after the effective date of the pronouncement.
Information on new standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to impact the Groups financial statements is provided below.
Certain other new standards and interpretations have been issued but are not expected to have a material impacton the Groups financial statements.
Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 19 The amendments introduce a relief that will reduce the complexity and burden of accounting for certain contributions from employees or third parties.
Such contributions are eligible for the practical expedient if they are: set out in the formal terms of the plan: linked to service: and independent of the number of years of service.
When contributions are eligible for the practical expedient, a company is permitted but not required to recognise them as a reduction of the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Operating Segments Determination and presentation of operating segments: The combination with Cinema City Holdings B. V. has led to the Group Board the CODM realigning its management information.
This change has given rise to the inclusion of an additional operating segment, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel CEE & Israel or Cinema City.
The combination has not affected the information provided to the Board in respect of Cineworld Cinemas or Picturehouse and they continue to be presented on a consistent basis to the prior period.
Management have added a UK & Ireland aggregation as it provides the reader with improved understanding of the geographical performance of the Group.
The Group has determined that is has three operating segments: Cineworld Cinemas, Picturehouse and Cinema City.
Cineworld Total Cinema City Cinemas Picturehouse UK & Ireland CEE & Israel Total m m m m m 53 weeks to 1 January 2015 1 Total revenues 385.6 39.7 425.3 194.1 619.4 EBITDA 74.1 4.7 78.8 47.8 126.6 Segmental operating profit 47.1 0.3 47.4 28.6 76.0 Net finance costs 7.6 7.6 1.0 8.6 Depreciation and amortisation 21.6 3.4 25.0 21.6 46.6 Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity method, net of tax 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 39.4 0.3 39.7 27.6 67.3 Non-current asset additions property, plant and equipment 24.0 5.5 29.5 155.4 184.9 Non-current asset additions goodwill 336.3 336.3 Non-current asset additions intangible assets 57.1 57.1 Investment in equity accounted investee 0.5 0.5 0.5 Non-current asset goodwill 217.1 19.1 236.2 316.6 552.8 Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 2.2 0.7 1.5 0.4 1.9 Impairments and reversals of impairments 1.0 1.0 1.0 Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 6.9 6.9 Segmental total assets 427.0 62.7 489.7 557.0 1,046.7 52 weeks to 26 December 2013 1 Total revenues 369.5 36.6 406.1 406.1 EBITDA 66.9 5.4 72.3 72.3 Segmental operating profit 35.7 1.8 37.5 37.5 Net finance costs 6.3 0.2 6.5 6.5 Depreciation and amortisation 22.4 1.6 24.0 24.0 Share of loss of jointly controlled entities using equity method, net of tax 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 29.3 1.6 30.9 30.9 Non-current asset additions property, plant and equipment 24.8 3.0 27.8 27.8 Non-current asset additions goodwill Non-current asset additions intangible assets Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 0.6 0.6 Non-current asset goodwill 217.1 19.1 236.2 236.2 Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 0.7 0.7 0.7 Impairments and reversals of impairments 2.0 2.0 2.0 Transaction and reorganisation costs 8.1 8.1 8.1 Segmental total assets 419.5 67.4 486.9 486.9 1 All revenues were received from third parties.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 87 2.
Operating Segments continued Entity Wide Disclosures 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Total Total Revenue by country m m United Kingdom 425.5 406.1 Israel 36.4 Poland 70.8 Bulgaria 9.1 Romania 23.1 Hungary 30.6 Slovakia 6.2 Czech Republic 17.7 Total revenue 619.4 406.1 Cineworld Cinemas 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Total Total Revenue by product and service provided m m Box office 269.3 261.5 Retail 89.3 84.6 Other 27.0 23.4 Total revenue 385.6 369.5 Picturehouse 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Total Total Revenue by product and service provided m m Box office 19.4 18.4 Retail 9.9 9.5 Other 10.4 8.7 Total revenue 39.7 36.6 Cinema City CEE & Israel 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Total Total Revenue by product and service provided m m Box office 110.5 Retail 42.7 Other 40.9 Total revenue 194.1 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 88 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Other Operating Income 52 week period 53 week ended 26 period ended 1 December January 2015 2013 Total Total m m Rental income 1.8 0.5 Other income 0.2 Total other operating income 2.0 0.5 4.
Operating Profit Included in operating profit for the period are the following: 52 week period 53 week ended period ended 26 December 1 January 2015 2013 m m 1 1 Depreciation see Note 10 37.3 22.3 1 1 Impairments see Notes 10 and 11 0.3 2.0 1 Reversals of impairments see Notes 10 and 11 1.3 1 1 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 11 9.3 1.7 1 1 Onerous leases and other non-recurring charges 1.9 0.7 1 1 Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 8.1 2 1 Hire of other assets operating leases 50.2 49.3 1 Included in administrative expenses.
2 0.4m 2013: 0.4m is included in administrative costs.
The balance is included in cost of sales.
In 2014 there is a net gain of 4.6m on onerous leases following changes in trading assumptions, in 2013 there was no charge in respect of onerous leases.
Other non-recurring charges made related to provisions of 2.0m and development costs incurred of 0.7m, in 2013 these related to other provisions made 0.4m and development costs incurred 0.3m.
In 2014 transactions and reorganisation costs include 5.5m relating to the acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B. V. see Note 9 and 1.4m of reorganisation and redundancy costs.
In 2013 transaction costs relate to the acquisition of Cinema City Holdings B. V. 6.1m, the competition commission enquiry into the acquisition of Picturehouse in 2012 1.2m and redundancy costs 0.8m.
The total remuneration of the Group auditor, KPMG LLP, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below.
53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 000 000 Auditors remuneration: Group audit 591 242 Company audit 6 6 Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 597 248 Audit related assurance services 86 50 Tax compliance services 57 57 Tax advisory services 206 11 Other assurance services 75 243 Corporate finance services 480 All other services 55 33 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 89 5.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares held by the employee ownership trust.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets, the impact of foreign exchange gains and losses recognised on the translation of results generated in currencies other than the Groups reporting currency and other one-off income or expense and then adjusting for the tax impact on those items which is calculated at the effective tax rate for the current period.
The performance of adjusted earnings per share is used to determine awards to Executive Directors under the Group Performance Share Plan PSP.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders by weighted average number of any non-vested ordinary shares held by the employee share ownership trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 1 2015 2013 m m Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 54.5 21.0 Adjustments: 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.4 1.7 Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 8.1 Impairments and reversals of impairments 1.0 2.0 Onerous lease cost and other non-recurring charges 1.9 0.7 3 Exceptional finance charges 2.6 4 Impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses 4.3 Adjusted earnings 62.2 33.5 Tax effect of above items 1.0 2.2 Adjusted pro-forma profit after tax 61.2 31.3 52 week 53 week period ended period ended 26 December 1 January 2013 2015 Number of m shares m Weighted average number of shares in issue 246.3 149.8 Basic and adjusted earnings per share denominator 246.3 149.8 Dilutive options 2.4 2.1 Diluted earnings per share denominator 248.7 151.9 Shares in issue at period end 263.9 149.9 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 22.1 14.0 Diluted earnings per share 21.9 13.8 5 Adjusted pro-forma basic earnings per share rights adjusted 24.6 18.8 5 Adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share rights adjusted 24.4 18.6 1 Following the business combination with Cinema City, the Group has taken the opportunity to consider how it presents its adjusted EPS calculation.
After areview of comparable UK Premium Listed companies, a decision was made to no longer add back the charge for share-based payments as it is considered to be an ongoing cost of remunerating staff.
Furthermore, given the international nature of the combined Group, it was decided that only the tax impact of non-recurring items should be taken into account rather than applying a single local or effective tax rate.
The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share for the 2013 full year were 22.9p and 22.6p as previously stated.
The basic and diluted earnings per share have not been adjusted and areas previously stated.
2 Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation of the fair value placed on brands, customer lists, distribution relationships, and advertising relationships as a result of the Picturehouse acquisition and Cinema City business combination.
It does not include amortisation of purchased distribution rights which totalled 3.9m.
3 Exceptional finance charges of 2.6m includes 1.9m in respect of the net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity and the write offof 0.7m prepaid finance costs in respect of the Groups old debt facilities.
4 Net foreign exchange gain included within earnings comprises of 6.0m foreign exchange gain recognised on translation of the Euro term loan at 1January2015 and 1.7m foreign exchange losses recognised on translating overseas operations into the reporting currency of the Group.
5 The 2014 adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share have been adjusted for the first 48 days of the period to take into account of the rights issue of 8 for25 shares on 14 February 2014.
The 2013 adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share have also been adjusted to take account of the rights issue in order to present a comparator.
The basic and diluted earnings per share have not been adjusted and are as previously stated.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 90 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Staff Numbers and Costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the period, analysed by category, was asfollows: Number of staff 2014 2013 Head office 636 266 Cinemas 8,043 5,232 8,679 5,498 Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees.
No distinction is made between full-time and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Wages and salaries 82.6 59.4 Social security costs 6.7 3.7 Other pension costs defined contribution 0.8 0.6 Share-based payments see Note 19 1.6 1.3 91.7 65.0 See pages 45 to 62 for details of Directors remuneration.
Finance Income and Expense 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Interest income 0.3 0.1 Net foreign exchange gain 6.0 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income Note 19 0.3 0.2 Finance income 6.6 0.3 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 10.2 5.2 Amortisation of financing costs 1.8 0.4 Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 1.2 0.8 Unwind of discount on market rent provision 0.7 Interest charge as a result of change in discount rate relating to onerous lease provisions 0.1 Other financial costs 0.9 0.4 Finance expense 13.3 6.8 Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss in respect settled of cash flow hedges 1.9 Total finance expenses 15.2 Net finance costs 8.6 6.8 Recognised Within Other Comprehensive Income 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 0.8 1.6 Foreign exchange translation gain loss 34.1 0.4 Finance expense 33.3 2.0 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 91 8.
Taxation Recognised in the Income Statement 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Current tax expense Current year 13.7 9.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 1.0 Total current tax expense 13.6 8.8 Deferred tax expense Current year 1.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 Total tax charge in income statement 12.8 9.9 Effective tax rate 19.0% 30.2% Current year effective tax rate 20.3% 35.2% Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Profit before tax 67.3 30.9 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 14.5 7.2 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.2 0.1 Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.1 1.3 Other permanent differences 0.2 2.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 1.0 Increase in unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.1 Effect of change in statutory rate to 20% 2013: 20% on deferred tax 0.3 Total tax charge in income statement 12.8 9.9 During the period there was a deferred tax debit of 0.5m 2013: 0.2m recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
This relates to the actuarial loss on the defined benefit scheme and the movement in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of theGroups bank loans: see Note 13.
Factors that May Affect Future Tax Charges As at 1 January 2015 the Group had potential UK tax assets relating to the following: Other non-trading losses of approximately 2.6m 2013: 2.6m.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of UK non-trading and capital losses carried forward as it is not considered probable that future non-trading income or capital gains will be realised in the UK against which the losses may be utilised.
The net tax benefit of utilising any of the above losses is expected to amount to approximately 20% of the losses utilised.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group controls the timing of remittance and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 and to 21% effective 1 April 2014 were substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and 2 July 2013 respectively.
A further reduction to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax asset and liability at 1 January 2015 have been calculated based on the rate of 20% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
As at 1 January 2015 the Group had potential overseas tax assets relating to the following: Trading losses of approximately 9.2m.
Other temporary differences of approximately 6.7m.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on these temporary differences as it is not considered probable that future trading income or capital gains will be realised in these countries against which the assets can be utilised.
Losses of 7m are subject to time restriction rules and will expire between 2015 and 2018.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 92 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9. Business Combinations On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc the Group announced the combination with the cinema business of Cinema City International N. V. which has since changed its name to Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, by means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares, including all voting rights, in Cinema City Holdings B. V. CCH, a subsidiary of GCH.
Management believe that the business combination will drive growth in the business and enhance shareholder value by: providing the enlarged Groups business with a platform for further European expansions: giving the enlarged Group significant scope to drive additional benefits from its combined operations through operational improvements and the sharing of best practice across the Cineworld and Cinema City businesses: and delivering an attractive return on invested capital, being earnings accretive allowing the enlarged Group to maintain the existing Cineworld dividend policy.
Consideration Transferred At the date of announcement, the headline consideration for the combination equated to 503m in cash and shares and 14.5m for the settlement of CCH bank debt.
The combination was completed on 28 February 2014, at which point adjustments for certain provisions of the purchase agreement resulted in a fair value of consideration transferred of 510.6m.
Consideration for the transaction was settled with a mix of cash and shares.
Final cash consideration of 302.6m was part funded by an 8 for 25 Rights Issue which completed on 14 February 2014, raising net funds of 107.2m with the residual cash consideration being funded within the Groups new debt facility.
The Group issued to GCH shares in Cineworld Group plc which were valued at 208.0m when the combination completed on 28 February 2014.
The consideration shares represented 24.9% of the post rights issue share capital of the Group.
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred m Cash consideration 302.6 Share consideration 208.0 Total fair value of consideration transferred 510.6 The fair value of the 65.6m ordinary shares issued to GCH as part of the consideration was based on the published share price of 317p at the close of business on 27 February 2014.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed At the time of the June 2014 Interim Report, management were in the final stages of valuing the fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and assets and liabilities and as a result their respective fair values were measured on a provisional basis.
This exercise is now complete.
The finalisation of the fair values to reflect new information obtained about factors and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date resulted in an increase in goodwill of 0.8m.
The impact of the changes on the acquired assets and liabilities is detailed below.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed m Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition Intangible assets 53.0 Property, plant and equipment: 132.8 Asset in respect of favourable lease contracts 5.2 Deferred tax assets 5.0 Other non-current assets 0.4 Inventory 3.5 Trade and other receivables 23.1 Cash and cash equivalents 24.1 Provision in respect of unfavourable lease contracts 10.9 Other provisions in respect of properties and leases 5.4 Other long-term liabilities 1.7 Deferred tax liabilities 7.2 Trade and other payables 47.7 Total net identifiable assets 174.2 Goodwill 336.4 Consideration transferred 510.6 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 93 9. Business Combinations continued Property and Leases The fair value of property, plant and equipment of 132.8m includes a number of adjustments.
Old cinema equipment and assets from non-trading sites which were previously held at their residual value of 10.8m have been fully depreciated as the residual value is not expected to be realised.
Assets with a net book value of 7.1m at the date of acquisition have been provided for due to the fact that they relate to loss-making cinemas.
A further 9.9m 10.7m stated previously on a provisional basis, based on certainassumptions until all the information was available fair value write down has been recognised where the site-specific forecasted cash flows discounted by applying a country specific market participant discount rate did not support the net book value of the sites assets at the date of acquisition.
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management have also considered the lease contract for each of the cinemas.
A provision of 3.6m has been made in respect of onerous lease contracts.
The provision reflects the present value of the future lease payments under these contracts at the date of acquisition to the extent that the contract results in the site becoming loss making.
A smaller number of leases were identified with future contractual fixed increases in rent.
A provision of 1.8m 1.3m stated previously on a provisional basis, before the detailed lease review was completed has been recognised in respect of thesecontractual increases in line with IAS 17: Leases requirement to recognise the future minimum payments on a straight-line basisover the life of the lease.
An exercise was conducted to compare the current rentals of each of the sites to the current assumed average market rental rate.
Accordingly, a net provision of 5.7m 6.6m stated previously on a provisional basis, whilst further evidenceof market rental rates was obtained has been recognised in respect of a number of sites where the current rental rate is either above or below the assumed average market rental rate.
An asset in respect of future deduction against rent payments in Poland of 2.4m has been written-down by 2.0m 2.4m stated previously on a provisional basis, as its full recovery is doubtful.
Tax The acquired deferred tax asset of 5.0m is stated after a fair value reduction of 0.9m of deferred tax assets which are not expected to be recoverable following the acquisition, and included additional tax assets of 3.5m resulting from temporary tax differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets and liabilities an increase of 0.3m following the changes in fair value of other assets and liabilities.
The deferred tax liabilities of 7.2m also include 5.4m in respect of temporary tax differences arising on the fair value adjustments made to acquired assets and liabilities.
Included within trade and other payables in an income tax liability of 3.4m recognised on acquisition 3.2m stated previously ona provisional basis, adjusted to reflect additional information regarding the tax position of the acquired business at the date of acquisition.
The liability reflects expected future tax charges in respect of tax positions open at the date of acquisition.
Other Fair Value Adjustments Other fair value adjustments include 3.1m accelerated amortisation of distribution rights and intellectual property where full recovery is considered doubtful.
Prepaid debt arrangement fees in respect of Cinema Citys old financing totalling 4.8m were released following the extinguishment of the loans at the date of acquisition.
A provision of 5.5m has been recognised 4.7m stated previously on a provisional basis has been recognised in respect of openlitigation and termination payments to employees for which obligations were in place at the date of acquisition.
Trade receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of 10.4m, of which 10.2m are expected to be collectable at the acquisition date and the fair value of the trade receivables recognised reflects this position.
Identifiable Intangible Assets Acquired identifiable intangible assets include 24.4m in respect of brands, 10.3m relating to distribution relationships and 11.4m in respect of advertising relationships.
Management consider the residual of 337.6m to represent a number of factors including the skills and industry knowledge of Cinema Citys management and workforce, synergies expected to be realised post acquisition and the future value expected to begenerated by the Group from Cinema Citys pipeline of new sites and entry into new territories.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss since 28 February 2014 contributed by Cinema City was 192.0m.
Cinema City also contributed 25.8m profit before tax over the same period.
Had Cinema City been consolidated from 27December 2014 the commencement of the current financial period, the consolidated statement of profit or loss would show revenue of 681.1m and profit before tax of 72.8m.
Acquisition related costs of 5.5m have been charged to administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the period ended 1 January 2015.
In addition, acquisition costs of 6.1m in respect of the transaction were charged to administrative expenses in the income statement for the year ended 26 December 2013.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 94 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9. Business Combinations continued Following the business combination, GCH and its subsidiary companies GCH Group are considered to be related parties of theCineworld Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are Directors of both groups.
Transactions with related parties have been disclosed in Note 25.
Property, Plant and Equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and Fixtures and course of buildings machinery fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 27 December 2012 117.4 62.7 61.3 0.2 241.6 Additions 2.5 2.2 12.6 10.5 27.8 Disposals 6.3 2.7 10.6 19.6 Transfers 5.2 0.6 3.1 8.9 Transfers to assets classified as held for sale 2.3 1.7 0.3 4.3 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.6 Balance at 26 December 2013 116.6 61.2 66.5 1.8 246.1 Additions due to acquisition 11.9 52.7 60.4 8.5 133.5 Additions 5.2 10.4 13.8 20.1 49.5 Disposals 6.7 1.4 8.1 Transfers 4.0 0.6 1.8 6.4 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 3.1 9.4 8.0 0.6 21.1 Balance at 1 January 2015 134.6 108.8 133.1 23.4 399.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance at 27 December 2012 30.3 21.1 30.2 81.6 Charge for the period 6.2 5.8 10.3 22.3 Disposals 6.3 2.7 10.6 19.6 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 0.3 0.4 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 0.7 1.2 0.1 2.0 Impairments 0.6 0.5 0.2 1.3 Balance at 26 December 2013 30.2 23.5 30.3 84.0 Charge for the period 6.8 15.0 15.5 37.3 Disposals 4.4 1.3 5.7 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 2.1 5.7 4.5 12.3 Impairments 0.1 0.2 0.3 Reversals of impairments 1.2 0.1 1.3 Balance at 1 January 2015 33.8 28.6 39.9 102.3 Net book value At 27 December 2012 87.1 41.6 31.1 0.2 160.0 At 26 December 2013 86.4 37.7 36.2 1.8 162.1 At 1 January 2015 100.8 80.2 93.2 23.4 297.6 Land and buildings are made up of short leasehold properties encompassing leasehold improvements and freehold properties.
In 2014 and 2013 there were no significant additions in respect of any distinctive projects.
The net book value of assets held under a finance lease is: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m The net book value of assets held under finance leases comprised Opening net book value 5.0 5.3 Depreciation charge 0.2 0.3 Closing net book value 4.8 5.0 The above assets held under finance leases relate to a finance lease held on two cinema sites, one cinema site which is included within land and buildings and equipment at another site which is held in plant and machinery.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 95 10.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Interest of 89,000 2013: 46,000 has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of new sites.
With respect to the tangible fixed asset disposals, no proceeds were receivable in the period.
Impairment The Group considers each Cinema site to be a cash generating unit CGU and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
In assessing whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In the absence of any information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use.
The Group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model, which applies a pre-tax discount rate for the relevant territory, a table summarising the rates used is set out below.
53 week 52 week period period ended ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m United Kingdom 11.12% 10.41 % Israel 16.53% N A Poland 11.70% N A Bulgaria 15.98% N A Romania 17.31% N A Hungary 16.54% N A Slovakia 16.21% N A Czech Republic 15.01% N A The future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period.
Cash flows beyond the first period have been extrapolated using the assumptions used in the impairment model see Note 11.
The 0.2m impairment loss, recognised in the Cineworld operating segment, was caused by trading not reaching expectations for the foreseeable future in relation to three cinema sites.
Impairment Reversals Following a significant improvement in trading performance and an increase in the estimated future cash flows of a previously impaired site, reversals of 1.3m have been recognised.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon forecasting future performance as well as the judgements used in arrivingat future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the five-year business plan and in the discount rates would be as follows: m Impairment if business plan growth rates were reduced by 1% for first five years 0.3 Impairment if property cost growth rates were increased by 1% for first five years 0.2 Impairment if discount rate was increased by 1% 0.3 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 96 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Intangible Assets Distribution Other Goodwill Brand rights intangibles Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 27 December 2012 244.4 16.7 261.1 Adjustment resulting from finalisation of fair values recognised on acquisition 0.2 0.2 Balance at 26 December 2013 244.6 16.5 261.1 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings see Note 9 336.3 24.3 16.5 12.2 389.3 Additions 5.2 5.2 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 19.7 1.4 2.7 0.8 24.6 Balance at 1 January 2015 561.2 39.4 19.0 11.4 631.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Balance at 27 December 2012 7.7 1.0 8.7 Amortisation 1.7 1.7 Impairment 0.7 0.7 Balance at 26 December 2013 8.4 2.7 11.1 Amortisation 2.7 5.1 1.5 9.3 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 1.6 0.4 2.0 Balance at 1 January 2015 8.4 5.4 3.5 1.1 18.4 Net book value At 27 December 2012 236.7 15.7 252.4 At 26 December 2013 236.2 13.8 250.0 At 1 January 2015 552.8 34.0 15.5 10.3 612.6 Impairment Testing Each individual cinema is considered to be a CGU.
However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under IAS 36 to group CGUs, in order to reflect the level at which it is monitored by management.
The ex-Cine-UK and ex-UGC including Dublin businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored on a Cineworld wide level.
The Picturehouse and Cinema City CGUs are considered as separate groups and have been tested for goodwill impairment on this basis.
The following assumptions have been applied to the individual CGUs when testing for impairment of PPE and groups of CGUs for goodwill impairment testing where applicable.
The recoverable amount of Cineworld, Picturehouse and Cinema City CGUs have been determined based on a value in use calculation.
That calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a one-year period.
Cash flows beyond the first year period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions.
This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which Cineworld operates.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows: Cineworld CGU Picturehouse CGU Cinema City CGU 53 week 52 week 53 week 52 week 53 week 52 week period period period period period period ended ended ended ended ended ended 1 January 26 December 1 January 26 December 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 2015 2013 2015 2013 % % % % % % 1 Discount rate 11.12 10.41 11.12 10.41 N A N A EBITDAR growth rate 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 N A Property cost growth rate 3.00 2.5 3.00 3.00 N A 1 Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used, a summary is disclosed in Note 10.
2015 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation.
This is adjusted to add back rent EBITDAR.
In line with long-term industry growth rates, EBITDAR is assumed to grow at 3% per annum.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 3.0% per annum over the life of the model.
Cash flows are projected over the shorter of the lives of the property leases or the intangible assets to which the cash flow relates.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 97 11.
Intangible Assets continued Cineworld and Picturehouse have discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 11.12% 2013: pre-tax 10.41% being a market participants discount rate.
Cinema City have discounted forecast flows using a pre-tax discount rates relevant to the operating territory of each individual CGU, being a market participants discount rate.
This is considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows each CGU.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions in the Cineworld goodwill impairment test including the discount rate and underboth the base case and sensitised case no indicators of impairment exist.
Management believe that any reasonably possiblechange in the key assumptions on which Cineworlds recoverable amount is based would not cause Cineworlds carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Management have assessed the carrying value of Cinema City and Picturehouse and sensitised key assumptions in making those assessments.
Management believe that given the proximity to the acquisition of the CGUs any indications arising from sensitising key assumptions do not indicate potential impairment at this stage.
Amortisation Charge The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the income statement: 53 week 52 week period period ended ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Administrative expenses 9.3 1.7 12.
Investment in Equity Accounted Investee The Group has the following investment in a jointly controlled entity: Class of Country of Incorporation shares held Ownership Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50% On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited DCM with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited Odeon.
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing contracts from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Groups former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the unanimous approval of the shareholders.
As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, therefore the Groups investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Cost 0.9 0.9 Share of post acquisition reserves 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.7 Share of post tax loss 0.1 0.1 Carrying value 0.5 0.6 Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities 100%: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Current assets 20.0 20.3 Non-current assets 2.0 1.8 Current liabilities 16.4 16.1 Non-current liabilities 6.1 6.4 Net liabilities 0.5 0.4 Income 52.8 49.3 Expenses 52.9 49.5 Net loss 0.1 0.2 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 98 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Investment in Equity Accounted Investee continued Screen advertising represents an important part of the Groups revenue streams and the joint venture partners recognise the importance of protecting this revenue stream.
The joint venture partners are able to reduce their share of the advertising income if deemed necessary to support DCM.
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net 1 January 26 December 1 January 26 December 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 2015 2013 2015 2013 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 2.4 4.7 3.5 2.3 3.5 Intangible assets 7.8 2.8 7.8 2.8 Employee benefits 1.0 0.5 1.7 1.0 0.7 0.5 Reverse premiums 1.8 1.9 1.8 1.9 Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 5.5 5.6 5.5 5.6 Onerous lease 0.7 0.7 Market rent 0.2 0.2 Interest rate swap 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Tax losses 1.4 1.4 Tax assets liabilities 13.5 8.5 14.2 7.3 0.7 1.2 Set off tax 11.5 0.4 11.5 0.4 Net tax assets liabilities 2.0 8.1 2.7 6.9 0.7 1.2 See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at the local tax rates on the above items.
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any key assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 26 December Recognised Recognised 1 January 2013 Acquisition in income in equity Forex 2015 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 3.5 0.3 0.9 2.3 Intangible assets 2.8 5.7 1.0 0.2 7.7 Employee benefits 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.7 Reverse premiums 1.9 0.1 1.8 Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 5.6 0.3 0.5 5.4 Onerous lease 0.9 0.2 0.7 Market rent 0.3 0.1 0.2 Interest rate swap 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.5 Tax losses 1.4 1.4 Tax assets liabilities 1.2 2.2 0.8 0.3 0.2 0.7 Recognised on acquisition 27 December Recognised in Recognised in of subsidiary 26 December 2012 income equity undertakings 2013 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 2.9 0.6 1.4 3.5 Intangible assets 3.6 0.8 3.6 2.8 Employee benefits 0.6 0.1 0.5 Reverse premiums 2.2 0.3 1.9 Effect of straight-lining operating lease accruals 6.6 1.0 5.6 Interest rate swap 0.8 0.3 0.5 Tax assets liabilities 2.5 1.1 0.2 5.0 1.2 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 99 14.
Inventories 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Goods for resale 7.7 3.5 Goods for resale recognised in cost of sales in the period amounted to 40.0m 2013: 23.1m.
Trade and Other Receivables 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Current m m Trade receivables 22.6 6.2 Other receivables 3.4 0.1 Other property receivables 0.1 Prepayments and accrued income 35.2 28.3 61.3 34.6 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 Non-current m m Other property receivables 4.6 Land lease premiums 0.9 0.9 Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.5 0.5 6.0 1.4 Other property receivables represent the fair value asset of leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B. V. The fair value liabilities of leases acquired are presented in Note 18.
The Virtual Print Fee accrued income balance recognised at the year end of 4.0m 2013: 4.4m is included within the prepayments and accrued income.
The balance is accrued based on the number of relevant film screenings during the period.
Given the complexity of the income recognition criteria, as described in Note 1, and in accordance with IAS 1, the following sensitivity is relevant: A decrease in the number of screenings recognised of 5% would decrease the VPF income recognised by 0.4m.
Non-Current Assets Held For Sale The Competition Commission ruled on 31 January 2014 that as a result of Cineworld Group plc acquiring City Screen Limited and its subsidiaries Picturehouse there was a substantial lessening of competition in three local geographical areas and that the divestment of either a Cineworld or Picturehouse cinema in each of the affected cities was required.
As a result, the Group has divested itself of assets in Aberdeen and Bury St Edmunds during the year and divested assets in Cambridge on 29 January 2015.
As at the period end, the Cambridge assets were being actively marketed for sale and are therefore presented as non-current assets held for sale.
The values in the table below represent the net book value of property, plant and equipment and associated liabilities which are shown as current assets and liabilities held for sale.
Since the fair value less costs to sell is expected to be in excess of the net bookvalue of the property, plant and equipment no impairment of such assets is required.
1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Assets classified as held for sale Property, plant and equipment 1.5 2.3 Liabilities classified as held for sale Interest-bearing loans 0.1 As a result of the potential sale of Picturehouse sites in the prior year, we considered the carrying value of the brand asset and goodwill recognised on acquisition associated with these sites.
It was determined that goodwill, presented in the Picturehouse operating segment, in respect of the sites was impaired by 0.7m in 2013.
No such impairment was required in 2014 as assets held for sale were made up entirely of Cineworld sites with no associated goodwill or intangibles.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 16.
Non-Current Assets Held For Sale continued Significant estimation was required by management to allocate the goodwill across the cinema portfolio.
Management took the forecast EBITDA for each cinema, analysing each sites relative performance and used this to allocate goodwill.
This balance together with the property, plant and equipment assets were then compared to the fair values less costs to sell, resulting in the above impairment of 0.7m in 2013.
Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 1.8 0.9 Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 283.9 118.1 Liabilities under finance leases 6.7 6.0 292.4 125.0 Current liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.9 1.0 Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 23.2 4.6 Liabilities under finance leases 0.7 0.7 24.8 6.3 The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: 1 January 2015 26 December 2013 Face Carrying Face Carrying Year of value amount value amount Currency Nominal interest rate maturity m m m m Unsecured bank loan 1 GBP LIBOR 1.95% 2016 123.5 122.7 Unsecured bank loan 2 GBP LIBOR 2.15% 2018 209.0 206.0 Unsecured bank loan 3 EURO EURIBOR 1.15% 2018 102.8 101.1 Finance lease liability 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 6.4 6.4 6.6 6.6 Finance lease liability 2 GBP 4.5% 2015 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Finance lease liability 3 EURO 6.5% 2021 0.9 0.9 Total interest bearing liabilities 319.2 314.5 130.2 129.4 See Note 22 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Within one year 0.7 0.7 Between one and two years 0.6 0.6 In the second to fifth years 2.7 2.0 Over five years 7.4 7.9 11.4 11.2 Less future finance charges 4.0 4.5 6.4 6.7 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 101 17.
Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued Analysis of Net Debt Cash at bank Bank Bank Finance Interest rate and in hand overdraft loans leases swap Net debt m m m m m m At 27 December 2012 10.9 127.3 7.0 3.5 126.9 Cash flows 8.1 4.9 0.9 13.9 Non-cash movement 0.4 0.6 1.6 0.6 Transferred to liabilities classified as held for sale 0.1 0.1 At 26 December 2013 19.0 122.7 6.7 1.9 112.3 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 24.1 0.7 23.4 Cash flows 3.6 2.1 188.6 0.7 193.6 Non-cash movement 1.8 0.7 0.8 3.3 Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates 2.1 6.0 3.9 At 1 January 2015 37.4 2.1 307.1 7.4 2.7 281.9 The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
Trade and Other Payables 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Current Trade payables 28.3 21.1 Other payables 7.5 10.8 Accruals and deferred income 74.9 50.8 110.7 82.7 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Non-current Accruals and deferred income 57.1 54.8 57.1 54.8 Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight-lining operating leases.
Employee Benefits Pension Plans The Group operates two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme The Scheme is a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary.
The Scheme closed to future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
The Group has engaged its actuarys assistance in measuring the defined benefit asset for the purposes of IAS19 revised for the period ended 1 January 2015.
The valuation used for IAS19 disclosures has been based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2012.
The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in the period in which they occur, but outside the Income Statement, through Other Comprehensive Income.
The Company made contributions of 1.6m during 2014 2013: 1.6m.
Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is nil.
Thetrustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded tothe Company.
Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised.
The Scheme has a surplus of 0.5m as at 1 January 2015 2013:0.4m.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Employee Benefits continued Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the scheme as at 1 April 2013.
Based on this assessment, the actuarial value of the assets of the scheme was more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued to members.
In view of this, a suspension of Company contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 1 January 2015.
Totalcontributions for the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2013 and 53 weeks ended 1 January 2015 were nil and nil, respectively.
No contributions are expected for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The net surplus deficit in the pension scheme is: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m MGM Pension Scheme 8.6 5.3 Net surplus 8.6 5.3 MGM Pension Scheme Profile of the Scheme The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees, former employees and current pensioners.
1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Analysis of defined benefit obligation by membership category Total value of current employees benefits 2.8 2.3 Deferred members benefits 11.2 9.6 Pensioner member benefits 18.4 16.9 Total defined benefit obligation 32.4 28.8 The scheme duration is an indicator of the weightedaverage time until benefit payments are made.
For the Scheme as a whole, the duration is around 15 years reflecting the approximate split of the defined benefit obligation between current employees duration of 26 years, deferred members duration of 20 years and current pensioners duration of ten years.
Funding Requirements UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently.
The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 5 April 2012 and showed a deficit of 0.4m.
The Company is paying deficit contributions of 1.6m per annum which, along with investment returns from return-seeking assets, is expected to make good this shortfall by February 2015.
The next funding valuation is due no later than 5 April 2015 at which progress towards full-funding will be reviewed.
A contribution of 1.6m is expected to be paid by the Company during the 52 week period ending 31 December 2015.
Risks Associated With the Scheme The Scheme exposes the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are: Asset Volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The Scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets equity diversified growth funds and global absolute return fund which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short term.
The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the Schemes long-term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Schemes liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation Risk A significant proportion of the Schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation.
The majority of the assets are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life Expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP.
The UK Government intends to implement legislation which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males.
This would increase the defined benefit obligation of the plan.
At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 103 19.
Employee Benefits continued The amounts recognised on the Balance Sheet are set out below: 1 January 26 December 27 December 2015 2013 2012 m m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 32.4 28.8 28.1 Fair value of plan assets 41.0 34.1 32.5 Surplus in scheme 8.6 5.3 4.4 When the members benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the scheme permit any surplus to revert to the employer the Group.
Therefore the surplus on the scheme has been recognised as an asset.
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1January 26 December 2015 2013 m m At beginning of period 28.8 28.1 Interest cost 1.2 1.2 Actuarial loss 3.6 0.6 Benefits paid 1.2 1.1 At end of period 32.4 28.8 Movements in fair value of plan assets: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m At start of period 34.1 32.5 Expected return on plan assets 1.5 1.4 Actuarial gain loss 5.2 0.1 Contributions by employer 1.6 1.6 Administration costs incurred 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 1.2 1.1 At end of period 41.0 34.1 Expense income recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Operating cost Administration expenses 0.2 0.2 Net finance costs Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income 0.3 0.2 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 1.6 0.7 Total recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income 1.7 0.7 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Employee Benefits continued The expense income is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Administrative expenses 0.2 0.2 Finance income 0.3 0.2 Total 0.1 Analysis of amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income: 53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Actuarial gains losses recognised in the period 1.6 0.7 The Scheme assets are invested in the following asset classes all assets have a quoted market value in an active market : 53 week 52 week 52 week period ended period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 27 December 2015 2013 2012 m m m Equities 6.8 5.0 Index linked bonds 13.5 8.3 Corporate bonds 3.3 3.3 Absolute return funds 14.5 17.1 15.7 Liability driven instruments 19.4 Other 0.3 0.2 0.2 41.0 34.1 32.5 Cineworld Cinemas Limited employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets.
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles.
The assumed long-term rate of return on each asset class is set out within this note.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the Scheme at the accounting date.
53 week 52 week period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Expected return on scheme assets 1.5 1.4 Actuarial gains losses 5.2 0.1 Actual return on plan assets 6.7 1.3 The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below: 53 week 52 week 52 week period ended period ended period ended 15 January 26 December 27 December 2015 2013 2012 % % % RPI Inflation 3.1 3.4 3.0 CPI Inflation 2.0 2.4 2.3 Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 4.1 4.4 4.0 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 1.83.3 2.13.4 2.03.3 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 3.35 4.4 4.5 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 105 19.
Employee Benefits continued The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Schemes liabilities.
53 week period ended 52 week period ended 52 week period ended Main demographic assumptions 1 January 2015 26 December 2013 27 December 2012 Mortality table adopted S1PXA base table with S1PXA base table with S1PXA base table with future improvements in line future improvements in line future improvements in line with CMI 2014 core with CMI 2013 core with CMI 2011 core projections with long-term projections with long-term projections with long-term improvement rate of 1% improvement rate of 1% improvement rate of 1% per annum.
Life expectancy for male currently aged 65 22.1 22.0 22.2 Life expectancy for female currently aged 65 24.3 24.2 22.4 Cash commutation Members assumed to Members assumed to Members assumed to exchange 31% of their exchange 31% of their exchange 31% of their pension for a cash lump pension for a cash lump pension for a cash lump sum at retirement sum at retirement sum at retirement The mortality assumptions are based on the recent actual mortality experience of scheme members, and allow for expected future improvement in mortality rates.
History of Plans The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows: Balance Sheet 53 week 52 week 52 week 53 week 52 week period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 27 December 29 December 30 December 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 32.4 28.8 28.1 28.4 28.3 Fair value of plan assets 41.0 34.1 32.5 30.4 28.3 Surplus 8.6 5.3 4.4 2.0 Experience Adjustments 53 week 52 week 52 week 53 week 52 week period ended period ended period ended period ended period ended 1 January 26 December 27 December 29 December 30 December 2015 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Experience gain loss on plan assets 5.2 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.7 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.2 Sensitivity to Key Assumptions The key assumptions used for IAS 19 are: discount rate, inflation and mortality.
If different assumptions were used, this could have a material effect on the results disclosed.
The sensitivity of the results to these assumptions is as follows: Defined Benefit Obligation m Present value of Defined Benefit Obligation DBO 32.4 DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate 33.7 DBO following a 0.25% increase in the discount rate 31.3 DBO following a 0.25% decrease in the inflation assumption 31.7 DBO following a 0.25% increase in the inflation assumption 33.3 DBO following a Life Expectancy increase by 1 year 33.5 The sensitivity information shown above has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting the results of the latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 1.6m to its defined benefit plans in the next financial period.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Employee Benefits continued Defined Contribution Plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 0.6m 2013: 0.6m.
There was 0.1m accruing to these pension schemes as at 1 January 2015 2013: 0.2m.
Accrued Employee Retirement Rights Local applicable labour laws and agreements in CEE require certain group companies to pay severance pay to dismissed or retiring employees including those leaving their employment under certain other circumstances.
The calculation of the severancepay liability has been made in accordance with labour agreements in force and based on salary components that, in managements opinion, create entitlement to severance pay.
Group companies severance pay liabilities to their employees are funded partially by regular deposits with recognised pension and severance pay funds in the employees names and by purchase of insurance policies.
They are accounted for as if they were a defined contribution plan.
The amounts funded as above are netted against the related liabilities and are not reflected in the statement of financial position since they are not under the control and management of the companies.
The amounts of the liability for severance pay presented in the statement of financial position see below reflect that part of the liability not covered by the funds and the insurance policies mentioned above, as well as the liability that is funded by deposits withrecognised central severance pay funds held under the name of the Companys subsidiaries.
The cost of severance provision is determined according to the projected unit credit method.
It has been calculated using a discounted cash flow approach.
The calculations are based on the following assumptions: Discount at 1 January 2015 0.34%.
Expected returns on plan assets at 1 January 2015 0.34%.
The net provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement comprises: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Present value of unfunded obligation 2.8 Less: Fair value of plan assets 1.8 1.0 Movements in the provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement: Gross Amount amount deposited Net amount m m m On acquisition of subsidiary undertakings see Note 9 2.5 1.6 0.9 Payments made upon retirement 0.1 0.1 Deposits made 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss Net movement in provision charged to net profit 0.4 0.4 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 0.3 2.8 1.8 1.0 Share-Based Payments As at 1 January 2015 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme, theCineworld Group 2007 Performance Share Plan and the Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan.
Grants were made under the Sharesave Scheme in 2014.
The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Period Ended 26 December 2013 Awards over 76,745 shares lapsed in 2013.
A charge of 100,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2012 Sharesave Scheme grant.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 107 19.
Employee Benefits continued Period Ended 1 January 2015 Awards over 106,680 shares lapsed in 2014.
A charge of 221,000 was recorded in the income statement for the period in respect of the 2012 and 2014 Sharesave Scheme grants.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP Period Ended 26 December 2013 Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years subject to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows: 30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share EPS calculated by comparingthe EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2015 is not less thanthe annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 3% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods: 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 is at least equivalent to the annual compound increase in the UK RPI plus 8% per annum compared and calculated for the same periods: and where the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2012 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2015 is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
Grants were made under the PSP scheme on 15 March 2013.
Under these grants, awards over 551,900 shares were made in total.
Awards over 317,228 shares were made with the performance conditions set out above.
Further awards over 234,672 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2013 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financialstatements.
Period Ended 1 January 2015 Further grants were made under the PSP scheme on 6 June 2014.
Under these grants, awards over 705,515 shares were made in total.
Awards over 563,210 shares were made with the performance conditions set out below.
30% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share EPS calculated by comparingthe EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 is not less thanthe annual compound increase of 10% per annum: 100% of the shares under the award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 is at least equivalent to theannual compound increase of 18% per annum: and Where the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 26 December 2013 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 is between the two limits above, the award shall vest on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
Further awards over 142,305 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with nospecified performance conditions attached.
EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financialstatements.
Awards over 368,423 shares lapsed during 2014.
A charge of 1,327,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP schemes.
The Company Share Option Plan CSOP Period Ended 26 December 2013 Grants under the CSOP were made on 15 March 2013.
Under these grants awards over 25,109 shares were made in total.
Awards over 3,587 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2013 PSP grant.
Awards over 21,522 shares were made with no performance conditions attached.
A charge of 29,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 CSOP schemes.
Period Ended 1 January 2015 Further grants were made under the CSOP on 6 June 2014.
Under these grants awards over 17,346 shares were made in total.
Awards over 2,891 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2014 PSP grant.
Awards over 14,455 were made with no performance conditions attached.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Employee Benefits continued EPS for the 2014 grant was defined as adjusted pro-forma diluted earnings per share as calculated in Note 5 to the financialstatements.
Awards over 11,120 shares lapsed during 2014.
A charge of 22,000 was recorded in the income statement in respect of the 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 CSOP schemes.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity settled schemes are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average exercise Number of exercise Number of price 2014 options price 2013 options 2014 2013  settled settled settled Outstanding at the beginning of the year 0.56 2,435,336 0.68 2,256,626 Adjustment due to rights issue 282,606 Exercised in shares during the year 0.52 401,885 0.44 272,811 Granted during the year 1.03 1,214,046 0.13 577,009 Lapsed during the year 0.47 486,223 1.09 125,488 Outstanding at the end of the year 0.77 3,043,880 0.56 2,435,336 Exercisable at the end of the year 2.08 10,662 1.98 15,090 The average share price during 2014 was 3.38 2013: 3.34.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2013 were: Share price Exercise Expected Dividend Risk at grant price volatility Expected life yield free rate Fair value Scheme name Date of grant % years % % PSP 15 March 2013 2.80 nil 42 3.0 4.7 0.51 2.43 CSOP 15 March 2013 2.80 2.79 42 310 years 4.7 0.51 0.58 Assumptions relating to grants of share options in 2014 were: Share price Exercise Expected Dividend Risk at grant price volatility Expected life yield free rate Fair value Scheme name Date of grant % years % % PSP 6 June 2014 3.49 nil 41 3.0 4.3 0.56 3.07 CSOP 6 June 2014 3.49 3.46 41 310 years 4.3 0.56 0.73 The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows: 52 week 52 week period ended period ended 25 December 26 December 2014 2013 m m Recognised in equity 1.4 1.2 Recognised in creditors 0.2 0.1 1.6 1.3 The share-based payment expense recognised in creditors relates to dividends accrued by the option holders over the vestingperiod.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 109 19.
The figures in this column for the Non-Executive Directors relate to taxable travel costs to attend Cineworld Board meetings, including related sustenance and accommodation.
2 Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees are able to acquire shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market value at grant.
The figures in this table relate to the value of this discount at the date of grant.
3 The gain on PSP shares and CSOP option vesting in the period has been calculated using a share price of 3.57, being the average price for the last three months of the period as they will not vest until 26 March 2015 and in the case of the PSP award includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener will amount to 37,116 and to Philip Bowcock will amount to 30,300.
4 Thomas McGrath and Stephen Wiener left the Company on 15 May 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively.
5 This CSOP option, although vested, had not been exercised and for comparison purposes a share price of 3.36, being the average price for the last three months of the period, has been used to calculate the value.
It was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 55.
6 Figure represents base salary and a special one-off salary supplement of 80,031 awarded to reflect the additional level of responsibility taken following the announcement that Stephen Wiener was leaving.
7 Exercised early so figure reflects actual value received, but relates to the period in question.
8 The gain on the PSP option vesting in this period was calculated using a share price of 3.36, being the average post rights issue for the last three months of the period as they did not vest until 29 March 2014 and included payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
The dividend equivalent payment to Stephen Wiener was 42,349.
The option was subsequently exercised and details of the gain made are set out on page 54.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Employee Benefits continued Executive Directors are invited to participate in a Group Personal Pension Plan, which is a money purchase plan or alternatively may receive a pension allowance in cash.
The Company contribution to this pension scheme for Executive Directors is 20% of salary.
All the Executive Directors except Stephen Wiener have elected not to participate in this scheme and instead receive a cash pension allowance of 20% of salary.
Share options were exercised by Stephen Wiener and Richard Jones during the year, details of the amounts exercised can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
Provisions Property Other Total provisions provisions provisions m m m Balance at 26 December 2013 Current 10.4 10.4 Non-current 0.7 0.4 1.1 11.1 0.4 11.5 Additional provisions due to acquisition 16.3 9.5 25.8 Provisions released to administrative expenses during the period 4.9 1.3 6.2 Utilised against rent during the period 5.0 5.0 Unwound against interest during the period 1.7 1.7 Balance at 1 January 2015 19.2 8.6 27.8 Current 1.5 5.1 6.6 Non-current 17.7 3.5 21.2 Total 19.2 8.6 27.8 Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations, market rent adjustments and other property liabilities.
Market rent provisions relate to the fair value of liabilities on leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B. V. The majority of the property provision relates to onerous leases, which is made on the acquisition of a cinema as part of a business, being the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it.
The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the lease net cost of exiting from the contract and is measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it, measured on a discounted basis.
The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease.
This is between one and 30 years see further analysis below.
1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions Analysed as: Within one year 1.5 0.7 Between one and two years 1.7 0.4 In the second to fifth years 7.7 1.8 Over five years 8.3 8.2 19.2 11.1 Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions Relating to Property Provisions The level of provision is dependent upon judgements in forecasting future cash flows and used in arriving at the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
The impact on the property provisions by applying different assumptions to the discount rate would be as follows: m Property provisions if discount rate was increased by 1% 0.3 Property provisions if discount rate was decreased by 1% 0.3 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 111 21.
Capital and Reserves Share Capital 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Cineworld Group plc Allotted, called up and fully paid 263,860,665 2013: 149,892,079 ordinary shares of 0.01 each 2.6 1.5 During the year rights issue shares were offered by way of rights to all qualifying shareholders on the basis of eight rights issue shares at 230 pence per rights issue share for every 25 Existing Ordinary Shares held and registered in their name at the close of businesson the record date.
The rights issue price of 230 pence per rights issue share represented a discount of approximately 41.3% to the closing price of an existing ordinary share of 392 pence on 9 January 2014 being the latest Business Day priorto the announcement of the Rights Issue and a 34.8% discount to the theoretical ex-rights price based on that closingprice.
During the year a total of 113,968,586 ordinary shares of nominal value 0.01 were issued.
299,305 2013: 210,475 ordinary shareswere part of the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance Share Plan, 87,278 2013: 53,080 ordinary shares were part of the CineworldGroup plc Company Share Option Plan, 15,302 2013: 9,256 were part of the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme, 47,965,465 were arose from the rights issue described above and 65,601,236 arose as part of the consideration for Cinema City, as described in Note 9.
Total consideration of 110,512,403 2013: 121,000 was received for shares issued in the yearexcluding the consideration shares described in Note 9.
This is after deducting transaction costs.
Translation Reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Merger Reserve In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions is recorded as a merger reserve.
Hedging Reserve The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swaps entered into, to hedge against variable interest payments on 141.5 2013: 55.0m of the total 283.9m 2013: 123.5m of bank debt.
As hedge accounting has been adopted thegains losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the income statement.
During the year a 1.9m loss was recycled through the Profit or Loss account in respect of the fair value of cashflow hedges on loans settled during the year.
Dividends The following dividends were recognised during the period: 2014 2013 m m Interim 10.0 6.1 Final for the preceding period 16.9 12.0 26.9 18.1 An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 2 October 2014 to ordinary shareholders 2013: 4.1p.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 9.7p per share, which will result in total cash payable of approximately 9.1m on 9 July 2015.
In accordance with IAS10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 1 January 2015.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Financial Instruments Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Group has in place a risk management programme and regular reports are made to the Audit Committee, which is tasked withgeneral oversight.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles andobligations.
The Groups Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks by the Group.
The Groups Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit.
Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
However, due to the nature of the Groups business, trade receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk.
The Groups trade receivables are disclosed in Note 15.
Of the total balance of 22.6m 2013: 6.2m due 68% 2013: 75% are within credit terms.
The bad debt provision as at 2014 is 11k 2013:11,000, with a bad debt expense in the period of nil 2013: nil.
Based on past experience the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of nettingagreements.
The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 113 22.
Financial Instruments continued 1 January 2015 Carrying Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5years m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 307.1 311.8 12.2 12.2 24.3 263.1 Finance lease liabilities 6.5 10.8 0.4 0.3 0.7 2.0 7.4 Trade and other payables 28.3 28.3 28.3 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swap 1 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.1 Interest rate swap 2 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.2 0.1 Interest rate swap 3 0.5 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Interest rate swap 4 0.5 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Interest rate swap 5 0.25 0.2 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 Interest rate swap 6 0.25 0.2 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 344.6 353.9 41.8 13.2 25.9 265.6 7.4 As part of the combination Cineworld Group plc restructured its debt financing, an element of which was drawn to part settle the cash consideration of 272m and 14.5m.
The residual of the facility has been drawn to refinance the existing facilities of the combined group and to fund general working capital requirements going forward.
160m 192m of the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting the composition of the combined group.
This financing arrangement became effective from 27 February 2014.
The bank loan is unsecured and subject to two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent EBITDA to net finance charges.
26 December 2013 Carrying Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than amount cash flows or less months years years 5years m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 122.7 129.5 3.9 3.9 7.6 114.1 Finance lease liabilities 6.7 11.2 0.4 0.3 0.6 2.0 7.9 Trade and other payables 21.1 21.1 21.1 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swap 1 0.95 1.3 0.1 0.6 0.5 0.1 Interest rate swap 2 0.95 1.3 0.1 0.6 0.5 0.1 152.4 164.4 25.6 5.4 9.2 116.3 7.9 Cash Flow Hedges The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk Following the acquisition of Cinema City the Group is subject to greater currency risk exposure.
Wherever possible, overseas operations will fund their day-to-day working capital requirements in local currency with cash generated from operations, naturally hedging the currency risk exposure to the Group.
Management will continually monitor the level of currency risk exposure, and consider hedging whereappropriate.
Currently the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the assetsand liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk The Groups policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoya reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt berestructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates.
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The revolver loan, of which 44.0m 2013: 38.5m was drawn down at the end of the period, is not hedged.
As a result, there is noimpact on the income statement relating to the hedged bank debt as a result of any changes in interest rates.
At the period endthe Group had six 2013 period end: two interest rate swaps which hedged 50% 2013: 65% of the Groups variable rate unsecured term loan.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 115 22.
Financial Instruments continued At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: Carrying amount 2014 2013 Fixed rates instruments Financial liabilities interest rate swap 2.7 1.9 Financial liabilities unsecured bank loans hedged portion 135.0 55.0 Finance lease liabilities 6.4 6.7 144.1 63.6 Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities unsecured bank loans unhedged portion 172.3 68.5 135m 2013: 55m of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swaps with the balance attracting a variableinterest rate.
In 2014 the balance is the additional 128.3m term loan and the revolving facility.
In 2013 the balance is the additional 30m term loan and the revolving facility.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps at fair value.
Hedge accounting was adopted from the year ended 27 December 2007 on the swap taken out in May 2007.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by 1.8m 2013: 1.2m or decreased equity by 1.8m 2013: 1.2m for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by nil 2013: nil.
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2013.
Profit or loss Equity 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp Effect in GBP thousands increase decrease increase decrease 1 January 2015 Variable rate instruments 3,200 3,200 3,200 3,200 Interest rate swap 1,400 1,400 1,400 1,400 Cash flow sensitivity net 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800 26 December 2013 Variable rate instruments 1,205 1,205 1,205 1,205 Interest rate swap 589 589 589 589 Cash flow sensitivity net 616 616 616 616 Fair Values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 1 January 1 January 26 December 26 December 2015 2015 2013 2013 m m m m Unsecured bank loans 307.1 311.8 122.7 123.5 Finance lease liabilities 6.5 6.5 6.7 6.7 Interest rate swaps 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9 316.3 321.0 131.3 132.1 The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Financial Instruments continued The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments based on valuations at 1 January 2015 and 26 December 2013.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values atany subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
Fair Value Hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined asfollows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly i. e. asprices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 1 January 2015 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 313.6 313.6 26 December 2013 Derivative financial instruments 1.9 1.9 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 129.4 129.4 There have been no transfers between levels in 2014.
No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items: 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 37.4 19.0 Bank loans 307.1 122.7 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 548.6 235.8 893.1 377.5 The Board of Directors constantly monitor the ongoing capital requirements of the business and have reviewed the current gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and consider it appropriate for the Groups current circumstances.
Ratios usedin the monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent EBITDA to net finance charges.
The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Operating Leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals commitments are as follows: Land and 1 January Land and 26 December buildings Other 2015 buildings Other 2013 m m m m m m Less than one year 85.6 0.1 85.7 52.1 0.1 52.2 Between one and five years 324.3 0.3 324.6 215.8 0.5 216.3 More than five years 1,016.3 1,016.3 851.0 851.0 1,426.2 0.4 1,426.6 1,118.9 0.6 1,119.5 The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are 5.4m 2013: 6.1m.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 117 24.
Capital Commitments Capital commitments at the end of the financial period for which no provision has been made: 1 January 26 December 2015 2013 m m Contracted 31.9 10.3 Capital commitments at the end of the current and preceding financial period relate to new sites.
Related Parties The compensation of the Directors is as follows: Salary and fees Compensation including for loss of Pension bonus office contributions Total 000 000 000 000 53 weeks ended 1 January 2015 Total compensation for Directors 2,341 89 252 2,682 Salary and fees Compensation including for loss of Pension bonus office contributions Total 000 000 000 000 52 weeks ended 26 December 2013 Total compensation for Directors 1,570 150 1,720 Share-based compensation benefit charges for Directors was 0.4m in 2013 2013: 0.5m.
Details of the highest paid Director canbe found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
Other Related Party Transactions Digital Cinema Media Limited DCM is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10July 2008.
Revenue receivable from DCM in the 53 week period ending 1 January 2015 totalled 15.6m 2013: 14.2m and as at1January 2015 nil 2013: nil was due from DCM in respect of receivables.
In addition the Group has a working capital loan outstanding from DCM of 0.5m 2013: 0.5m.
During the year the Group was charged expenses of 3.2m by companies under the ownership of Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, considered a related party of Group as Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are Directors of both groups see Note 9.
Details of subsidiaries held by the Group can be found in Note 29.
Post Balance Sheet Events On 31 January 2014, the Competition Commission published the report on their investigation into the Groups acquisition of Picturehouse Cinemas in 2012.
The Competition Commission ruled that the Group had to divest in cinemas in Aberdeen, Bury St Edmunds and Cambridge.
The contract to operate the Belmont Picturehouse in Aberdeen transferred out of the Group in April 2014, and the Abbeygate Picturehouse in Bury St Edmunds was sold in June 2014.
As at the year end, the process of disposing asite in Cambridge was still ongoing.
On 29 January 2015, the Group announced that Cineworld Cambridge had been sold to TheLight cinema chain for cash consideration of 8.0m.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
