Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements General information The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of James Fisher and Sons plc the Company, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities together referred to as the Group, for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and on an historical cost basis, modied to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as described below.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
Further information regarding the Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chairmans statement and Strategic report on pages 1 to 22.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the primary statements and in note 24.
In addition, note 26 of the financial statements includes the Companys objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risks.
The Group meets its day to day working capital requirements through operating cash ows, with borrowings in place to fund acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Group also has 81.4m of undrawn committed facilities none of which expire within twelve months.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current banking facilities.
The Group and Company present their financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company and consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2015.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement and related notes for the holding company have not been presented in these financial statements.
The profit after taxation in the holding company was 31.6m 2013: 47.5m.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements and those of the Company have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU as at 31 December 2014 and are applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
1 significant accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, is set out below.
During the year the Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations: New standards: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments to existing standards: IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 2011 IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Improvements to IFRS 2013 The adoption of these standards and interpretations had no financial impact on the Group.
Restatement ofincomestatement In order to provide an improved understanding of the Groups performance, the presentation of cost of sales and administrative expenses has been revised to better reect those variable and non-variable costs incurred in providing goods and services to our customers separately from those costs of selling, distribution and administration.
Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been reduced by 64.0m with administrative expenses increasing by the corresponding amount.
Basis of preparation of Group accounts The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses resulting from intra-group transactions that are recognised in assets and liabilities, are eliminated in full.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 significant accounting policies continued Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Losses applicable to the noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
Joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement over which the Group and one or more third parties have joint control.
These joint arrangements are in turn classied as: Joint ventures whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities: and Joint operations whereby the Group has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
The investment in joint ventures is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus the Groups post acquisition share in the change in net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment provision.
The income statement reects the Groups share of the post tax result of the joint ventures.
The Group's share of any changes recognised by the joint venture in other comprehensive income are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-controlling interests represent the proportion of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the income statement and within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
On the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between the consideration paid and the fair value of the share of net assets acquired is recognised in equity.
significant accounting judgements and estimates Financial and business risks The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial and business risks.
Where possible the Group seeks to minimise these risks through its risk management policies.
Pensions The Group primarily provides pensions to its employees through dened contribution schemes but also has dened benefit obligations.
The valuation of these dened benefit schemes is subject to a high degree of volatility arising from their exposure to changes in bond yields and equity values, and sensitivity to changes in actuarial assumptions, such as to life expectancy.
This makes it difficult to predict future potential liabilities with any certainty.
Details of the Group pension schemes, the assumptions underlying their current valuations and sensitivities in respect of these assumptions are set out in note 22.
Certain dened benefit obligations relate to industry-wide schemes which are funded by current and former employers to the shipping industry.
The risk of corporate failure of any of the participants could lead to an increase in the Group's share of liability.
Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any permanent impairment in accordance with the accounting policy on page 64.
Impairment of other assets The Group reviews the carrying value of all assets for indications of impairment at each balance sheet date.
If indicators of impairment exist the carrying value of the asset is subject to further testing to determine whether its carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount represents the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, which is determined by measuring the discounted cash ows arising from the asset including ultimate realisation on disposal.
Intangible assets The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on business combinations requires the performance of a review of the acquired business to assess whether such assets exist and can be identied separately and reliably measured.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration arises on acquisitions and is usually related to the achievement of financial performance targets relating to profits over an agreed period.
The outcome of these arrangements depends on a number of factors outside the control of the business including, but not limited to, competition, general economic conditions and the availability of resources within the business to meet its obligations to its customers.
The Group regularly assesses the likelihood of the targets being achieved during the performance period and makes appropriate adjustments to the provision for contingent consideration through the income statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
The timing of the transfer of risks and rewards will vary depending on the terms of the sales agreement, the evaluation of the specic risks associated with the performance of the contract for example design, construction and testing or generally accepted practice where there are no specic arrangements in the contract.
62 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions.
significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax risk issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such difference will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group has entered the UK tonnage tax regime under which tax on its ship owning and operating activities is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Income and profits outside this regime are taxed under normal tax rules.
This means that it is necessary to make estimates of the allocation of some income and expenses between tonnage and non tonnage tax activities.
These estimates are subject to agreement with the relevant tax authorities and may be revised in future periods.
Foreign currency i Group The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated from their functional currency into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences arising on monetary items forming part of the Groups net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings which are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary undertaking are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences on other foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are used to provide an effective hedge against Group equity investments in foreign currency are taken directly to the translation reserve.
Exchange differences on the net investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings are recognised in the translation reserve until such time as the subsidiary is disposed of at which time they are included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition are translated into Sterling at the period end exchange rate.
The income and expenses arising in foreign operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the reporting period.
All other exchange differences on transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on settlement of monetary items or on the retranslation of monetary items at rates different from those at which they were initially recognised are taken to the income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences included in the translation reserve are also dealt with in the translation reserve.
ii Company Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
All exchange differences on assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are taken to the income statement.
The Companys investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures at cost.
Income is recognised from these investments when its right to receive the dividend is established.
Financial assets The Group recognises three classes of financial assets: Loans and receivables Available for sale financial assets Derivatives a Loans and receivables These comprise non-derivative financial assets such as trade receivables, with xed or determinable payments, that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money may have a significant impact on their value less any impairment losses.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans or receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
If there is evidence of an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the estimated future cash ows after excluding amounts already provided against, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
If in a subsequent period the factors which indicated the original decision to impair the asset cease to exist, or are mitigated then the previously recognised impairment loss can be reversed subject to the revised carrying value of the asset not exceeding its amortised cost at the date the impairment is reversed.
Any reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.
A provision is made against a trade receivable only when there is objective evidence that the Group may not be able to recover all of the amount due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision for doubtful debts account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 significant accounting policies continued b Available for sale financial assets These are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classed as another category.
These are included as non-current assets unless intended to be disposed of within twelve months of the balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains and losses being recognised as a separate component of other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised or deemed to be impaired, at which point the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement in the period in which it arises.
Where investments are held in unlisted equity shares where there is no active market the investment is held at cost within non-current assets and is subject to annual impairment.
If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any previously recognised impairment loss, is transferred from other comprehensive income to profit or loss.
Reversal of impairment provisions are not recognised in profit or loss.
c Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Assets are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement unless designated as a hedging instrument.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are recorded at cost which represents the fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite or indefinite.
Intangible assets having nite lives are amortised over their useful economic life and are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that they are impaired.
The amortisation period is reviewed at the end of each accounting period.
The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the income statement.
The principal rates used are: Development costs 20% or over the expected period of product sales Intellectual property 5% to 33% Patents and licences 20% or over the period of the licence Other intangibles 20% Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets arising from that specic asset.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and business units from 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable to the vendor plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill on acquisitions between 1 January 2004 and 1 January 2010 represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill arising on each acquisition is reviewed annually for impairment but more regularly if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
When an impairment loss is recognised it cannot be reversed in a subsequent accounting period, even if the circumstances which led to the impairment cease to exist.
In assessing any potential impairment of purchased goodwill it is allocated against the appropriate combination of business units deemed to obtain advantage from the benets acquired with the goodwill.
These are designated as cash generating units CGU.
Impairment is then assessed by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant CGU with the carrying value of the CGUs assets and liabilities and related goodwill.
Recoverable amount is measured as the higher of the CGUs fair value less cost to sell and the value in use.
Where relevant, in order to assess the value of goodwill, the Group combines a number of CGUs.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill that arose on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 is carried at its amortised cost as at 1 January 2010, the date of transition to IFRS and subject to provision for impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 December 1997 was written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force, has not been reinstated in the balance sheet and will continue to be accounted for in reserves even if the business to which it relates is subsequently disposed.
Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those which management believe would provide a clearer indication of the underlying trading performance of the Group if they are removed from the underlying results and shown separately.
These are usually items which are significant in size or non-recurring in nature.
Warranty costs Provision is made for warranties offered with products where it is probable that an obligation to transfer economic benets to the customer in future will arise.
This provision is based on managements assessment of the previous history of claims and probability of future obligations arising on a product by product basis.
Provisions for warranty costs included in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 were 1.8m 31 December 2013: 0.9m.
64 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Ret costs relating to vessels are capitalised when incurred and amortised over 30 months, which is deemed to be the useful economic life of the asset.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benets associated with the asset to which it relates.
Depreciation is provided to write-down the cost of property, plant and equipment less accumulated depreciation to their residual value in equal annual instalments over their remaining estimated useful lives.
The principal rates used are: Freehold property 2.5% Leasehold improvements 2.5% or over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 5% to 20% Ships 4% to 10% No depreciation is charged on assets under construction.
Residual values for vessels are set initially at 20% of purchase cost or fair value at acquisition, which the Directors believe to be an approximation of current residual values.
Residual values and estimated remaining lives are reviewed annually by the Directors and adjusted if appropriate to reect the relevant market conditions and expectations, obsolescence and normal wear and tear.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes expenditure incurred during construction, delivery and modication.
Where a substantial period of time is required to bring the asset into use attributable finance costs are capitalised and included in the cost of the relevant asset.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment of assets At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there are any indications that an asset has been impaired.
If any indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset concerned.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
These calculations are determined for an individual asset unless that asset does not generate cash inows independently from other assets, in which case its value is determined as part of that group of assets.
Where the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
To assess the value in use the estimated future cash ows relating to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessment of the time value of money and risks specic to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing and discontinued operations are recognised in the income statement.
If an event occurs after the recognition of an impairment that leads to a decrease in the amount of the impairment loss previously recognised the impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Research and development costs Expenditure undertaken by the Group on research is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development which represents the application of research to the development of new products or processes is capitalised provided that specic projects are identiable, technically feasible, and the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The useful life of projects meeting the criteria for capitalisation is determined on a project by project basis.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over its expected useful life on a straight line basis.
Capitalised development costs are measured at costs less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Other development costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition, as follows: Raw materials, consumables stores and nished goods for sale - purchase cost on a first in first out basis: Work in progress and nished goods - cost of direct materials and labour plus attributable overheads allocated on a systematic basis based on a normal level of activity: Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and sale or disposal.
Long-term service contracts i General Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs relating to the construction contract are recognised in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract, in the period in which the work is performed.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to physical progress, attributable man hours and costs incurred measured against the expected outcome based on the most appropriate method for the specic type of contract.
Revenue from the contract is recognised under the percentage of completion method whereby recognition is determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Contract costs incurred that relate to future activity are deferred and recognised as inventory.
When a loss is expected to be incurred on a long-term contract it is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
When the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably no profit is recognised.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that costs incurred will be recovered.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 65 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 significant accounting policies continued ii Bid costs All bid costs incurred relating to contracts for the design, manufacture or operation of assets or the provision of services to third parties are expensed to the income statement as incurred, except for those costs incurred after the point at which the contract award is virtually certain.
Directly attributable costs incurred subsequent to this point are included within contract costs and amortised over the life of the initial period of the contract to which they relate.
Taxation Tonnage tax payable by those Group entities who have entered the tonnage tax regime is provided by reference to net tonnage of qualifying vessels at the current rate.
Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits from activities not qualifying for the tonnage tax regime and is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity, or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected corporation tax payable or receivable in respect of the taxable profit for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, less any adjustments to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities included in the financial statements and the amounts used for tax purposes, that will result in an obligation to pay more, a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: No provision is made where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: and No provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on all taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying temporary differences and unused tax losses and credits can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset is expected to be realised or liability settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax arising on actuarial gains and losses relating to dened benefit pension funds is recorded in other comprehensive income.
Where the cash contributions made to the schemes exceed the service costs recognised in the income statement the current tax arising is recorded in other comprehensive income.
No deferred tax is recognised on vessels which are subject to the tonnage tax regime.
Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group operates in international markets and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily relating to the US Dollar, Euro and Norwegian Kroner.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk arising from long-term borrowings.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage or hedge risk, in the form of foreign currency contracts, to manage foreign exchange risk and interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Fair value is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts with similar maturity proles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
The recognition of the gains or losses arising on these movements in fair value depends on whether a derivative is designated as a hedge and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group recognises two classes of hedges for derivative financial instruments: Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or recognised assets or liabilities cash ow hedge.
Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or an unrecognised rm commitment fair value hedge : Cash ow hedges These can include forward foreign currency contracts which the Group will enter into only if they meet the following criteria: The instrument must be related to a foreign currency risk of a rm commitment: It must involve the same currency as the hedged item: and It must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
These may also include interest rate swaps which must have the following characteristics: The instrument must be related to a recognised asset or a liability: and It must change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a xed rate.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash ow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Gains or losses arising on any portion deemed to be ineffective are recognised immediately in the income statement.
66 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Where the hedge relates to a rm commitment or forecast transaction which subsequently results in the recognition of an asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss relating to that item is removed from equity and included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
Otherwise the cumulative amount is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement at the same time as the related movements on the hedged transaction.
When the term of the hedging instrument expires or it is sold, or where the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until either the related forecast transaction occurs, in which case it is recognised in accordance with the policy stated above, or if the hedged transaction is not expected to take place, it is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value hedges Where a derivative is designated as a hedge of the variability in the fair value of an asset or liability of the Group it is designated as a fair value hedge.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement at the same time as the related movements in the hedged asset or liability.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of any derivatives which do not qualify for hedge accounting under any of the criteria outlined above are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Calculation of fair values The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using assumptions based on market conditions at the balance sheet date or discounted cash ow techniques.
Interest-bearing loans and other borrowings All interest-bearing loans and other borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, which represents the fair value of the consideration received net of any issue costs associated with other borrowings.
Finance charges, including any premiums payable on settlement or redemption of debt instruments including preference shares and the direct costs of issue, are accounted for on an amortised cost basis in the income statement.
Charges are calculated using the effective interest method, and are recognised in the income statement over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Accounting for leases i Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Lease payments under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
ii Finance leases A lease arrangement under which substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item rest with the lessee are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the related item or the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction in the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are expensed to the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
Pension plans i Dened contribution scheme Under this type of pension plan the Group pays a pre-determined contribution to a separate privately administered pension plan.
Other than this contribution the Group has no further legal or constructive obligation to make further contributions to the scheme.
Obligations for contributions to the scheme are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Dened benefit scheme A dened benefit scheme is a pension plan under which the amount of pension benefit that an employee receives on retirement is dened by reference to factors including age, years of service and compensation.
The schemes are funded by payments determined by periodic actuarial calculations agreed between the Group and the trustees of trustee-administered funds.
The cost of providing benets is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benets to the current period current service cost and to current and prior periods to determine the present value of the dened benefit obligation.
Current service costs are recognised in the income statement in the current year.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement immediately.
When a settlement which eliminates all obligations for benets already accrued or a curtailment which reduces future obligations as a result of a reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the gain or loss recognised in the income statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 significant accounting policiescontinued The interest element of the dened benefit cost represents the change in the present value of scheme obligations resulting from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the year.
The return on scheme assets is determined by multiplying the fair value of plan assets by the discount rate, as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking account of any changes in the plan assets held during the period as a result of contributions or benets payments.
The return on scheme assets and the interest cost are recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
A liability is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups net obligations to the schemes which is calculated separately for each scheme.
The liability represents the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The dened benefit obligations represent the estimated amount of future benets that employees have earned in return for their services in current and prior periods, discounted at a rate representing the yield on a high quality corporate bond at the balance sheet date, denominated in the same currency as the obligations, and having the same terms to maturity as the related pension liability, applied to the estimated future cash outows arising from these obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of economic benets available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the present value of economic benets, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply to the plan.
An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities.
When the benets of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit related to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
To the extent that the benets vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Actuarial gains and losses on experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions that arise subsequent to 1 January 2004 are recognised in the period in which they arise directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
Share based payments The Company operates executive share option schemes and a savings related share option scheme under which options have been granted to employees of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
For options granted since 7 November 2002, the fair value of employee services rendered in exchange for the grant of options is determined by the fair value of the option at the date of grant.
The total amount, which is expensed over the specified period until the options can be exercised the vesting period, is recognised cumulatively as an expense in the income statement with a corresponding credit to equity.
The fair value of the option is determined by the use of mathematical modelling techniques, including the Black-Scholes option pricing model and the Binomial model.
Non-market vesting conditions such as profitability and growth targets are excluded from the fair value calculation but included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The Company re-assesses its estimate of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Any adjustments to the original estimates are recognised in the income statement and equity over the remaining vesting period with any element of any adjustments relating to prior periods recognised in the current period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition such as the performance of the Group relative to a group or index composed of third party entities.
These are treated as vested irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied In addition to failure by the employee to exercise an option in accordance with the exercise period allowed by the scheme, an award made to an employee under a share option scheme is deemed to lapse when either the scheme is cancelled by the Company, or when an employee, who continues to qualify for membership of a scheme, ceases to pay contributions to that scheme.
In these circumstances the full remaining unexpired cost of the award will be expensed in the period in which the option lapses.
When awards are made to employees of a subsidiary, the award is treated as a capital contribution to the subsidiary with a corresponding increase in the cost of investment being reected in the Company balance sheet.
No reversal of previously recognised expense is made when options lapse.
Where the exercise of options is satisfied by the issue of shares by the Company the nominal value of any shares issued from the exercise of options is credited to share capital with the balance of the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, credited to share premium.
Short-term employee benets The Group recognises a liability and an expense for short-term employee benets, including bonuses, only when contractually or constructively obliged.
Treasury shares Shares issued by the Company which are held by the Company or its subsidiary entities including the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, are designated as treasury shares.
The cost of these shares is deducted from equity.
No gains or losses are recognised on the purchase, sale, cancellation or issue of treasury shares.
Consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity.
ESOP Trust Company shares are held in an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
The finance costs and administration costs relating to the ESOP are charged to the income statement.
Dividend income arising on own shares is excluded in arriving at profit before taxation and deducted from aggregate dividends paid.
The shares are ignored for the purposes of calculating the Groups earnings per share.
Revenue Revenue, after excluding trade discounts and value added tax, represents the provision of goods and services by the Group and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business and is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer.
The transfer of risks and rewards is assumed to pass to the customer on delivery of the goods or completion of the provision of the relevant services.
68 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Where services rendered relate to long-term contracts and are not completed at the balance sheet date, revenue is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction measured by reference to the proportion of total expected costs incurred.
Revenue is not recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due.
Rentals receivable under operating leases are credited to revenue on a straight line basis over the lease term.
There are no rental commitments in respect of long-term leasing arrangements.
Non-current assets held for sale On classication as held for sale, non-current assets are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classication as held for sale are included in profit or loss, as are any gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits included in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less from the original acquisition date.
Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash ow statement comprise cash and short-term deposits, net of bank overdrafts.
Other reserves Other reserves comprise the following: Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of operations whose financial statements are denominated in foreign currencies as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Intra-group financial instruments Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
2 Segmental information Operating segments Management has determined the operating segments reported based on information reviewed by the Board which is utilised to make strategic decisions.
The Group has four reportable operating segments, which the Board considers appropriately represent the nature of each division in terms of products, services and customer base.
Marine Support - includes the hire and sale of large scale pneumatic fenders and ship to ship transfer services, and the design and supply of systems for monitoring strain and stress in structures.
Offshore Oil - assembly and rental of equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry and the design and manufacture of specialist downhole tools and equipment for extracting oil.
Specialist Technical - provision of subsea services including submarine rescue and saturation diving including maintenance, asset management and consultancy services and the non-destructive testing, decommissioning and remote operations and monitoring services predominantly to the nuclear industry.
Tankships - engaged in the sea transportation of clean petroleum products in North West Europe.
The Board assess the performance of the segments based on operating profit before corporate costs, costs of business acquisition and the amortisation of acquired intangibles and after the Groups share of the post tax results of associates and joint ventures.
This is dened as underlying operating profit in the following tables.
The Board believes that such information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities which operate within these industries.
Inter segmental sales are made using prices determined on an arms length basis.
Geographical revenue is determined by the location in which the product or service is provided.
Where customers receive the product or service in one geographical location for use or shipment to another it is not practicable for the Group to identify this and the revenue is attributed to the location of the initial shipment.
The geographical allocation of segmental assets and liabilities is determined by the location of the attributable business unit.
These comprise costs incurred in acquiring businesses, adjustment to the provision for contingent consideration, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and profits and losses on the disposal of businesses.
Amortisation of acquired intangibles relates to the amortisation of the value attributed to customer relationships arising on the acquisition of certain subsidiaries.
Acquisition costs relate to businesses acquired during the period.
2014 2013 000 000 Acquisition costs 700 939 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1,019 799 Adjustment to provision for contingent consideration 4,100 - Acquisition related income and expense 2,381 1,738 profit on sale of joint venture undertaking - 6,613 Separately disclosed profit before taxation 2,381 4,875 Tax on separately disclosed items 243 270 2,624 5,145 The adjustment to the provision for contingent consideration of 4.1m 2013: nil relates to Divex Limited where the period to achieve orders for specic equipment expired on the 31 December 2014 and to Osiris, acquired in August 2013, where profitability targets to 30 June 2015 are no longer expected to be achieved.
On 19 August 2013 the Group disposed of its 25% interest in Foreland Holdings Limited for a gross consideration of 11.4m.
The gain of 6.8m is included in the Specialist Technical division.
In August 2013 the Group disposed of the marine leisure business of Fendercare Australia for a consideration of 1.4m.
This resulted in a loss on disposal of 0.2m which is included in the Marine Support division.
5 Operating profit This is stated after charging crediting : 2014 2013 000 000 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 1,044 476 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: ships 4,491 4,702 other 15,022 12,359 Total depreciation charge 19,513 17,061 Amortisation of intangible assets 2,556 1,499 Research and development costs 1,364 1,624 Net foreign currency gains losses 234 510 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 119,621 119,779 Operating lease rentals: property 3,928 4,578 ships 8,844 10,643 other 418 660 13,190 15,881 hire of vessels 13,527 14,186 26,717 30,067 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Auditors remuneration comprises the following: 2014 2013 000 000 Audit of the financial statements of the parent 129 152 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 406 378 535 530 Taxation services 96 124 Corporate finance services 20 31 Other services - 58 Total fees payable to Group auditor 651 743 6 Staff costs andDirectors emoluments Group 2014 2013 a Staff costs including Executive Directors 000 000 Wages and salaries 95,784 83,760 Social security costs 9,707 8,636 Pension costs 4,152 4,531 Share based compensation 1,226 1,205 110,869 98,132 The monthly average number of persons including Executive Directors employed by the Group was: Group 2014 2013 Number Number Technical and administrative 2,161 1,948 Seafarers 333 242 2,494 2,190 2014 2013 b Directors emoluments 000 000 Directors emoluments 1,190 1,098 Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of options 112 194 Pension contributions to dened contribution schemes 83 82 Number of Directors accruing benets under dened contribution schemes - 1 Full details of the emoluments of Directors are set out in the  report on page 41.
Compensation of key management to the Group 2014 2013 000 000 Short-term employee benets 1,931 1,645 Share based payments 611 545 2,542 2,190 Key management personnel include the Board of Directors of the Company and other senior members of the management team.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Finance income and finance costs 2014 2013 000 000 Bank interest receivable 197 256 Interest payable in respect of: Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 3,396 4,175 Preference dividend 3 4 Finance charges payable under finance leases 20 36 Net interest on pension obligations 976 1,097 Unwind of discount on contingent consideration 486 233 4,881 5,545 8 Taxation 2014 2013 The tax charge is as follows: 000 000 Current tax: UK corporation tax 7,636 4,808 Tax overprovided in previous years 947 674 Foreign tax 3,324 4,310 Total current tax 10,013 8,444 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,262 969 Total taxation on continuing operations 8,751 7,475 2014 2013 The total tax charge in the income statement is allocated as follows: 000 000 Income tax expense reported in Group income statement 8,751 7,475 Share of joint ventures current tax 228 485 Total income tax expense 8,979 7,960 2014 2013 Income tax on comprehensive income 000 000 Current tax: Current tax on foreign exchange losses on internal loans 21 14 Current tax on contributions to dened benefit pension schemes 1,134 1,287 Current tax relating to derivatives - 26 Deferred tax: Deferred tax relating to remeasurement gains and losses in dened benefit pension schemes 818 670 Deferred tax relating to fair value of derivatives 429 430 766 175 Reconciliation of effective tax rate The tax on the Groups profit on continuing activities differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the rate applicable under UK corporation tax rules as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 profit before tax from continuing operations 49,234 46,223 Tax arising on interests in joint ventures 228 485 49,462 46,708 At UK statutory tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 10,634 10,860 Difference due to application of tonnage tax to vessel activities 583 604 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 625 930 Over under provision in previous years: Current tax 947 674 Deferred tax 523 192 Tax rates on overseas income 60 385 Research and development relief 151 70 Non-taxable income 1,228 1,657 Impact of change of rate - 682 Other 46 50 8,979 7,960 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group has entered the UK tonnage tax regime under which tax on its ship owning and operating activities is based on the net tonnage of vessels operated.
Any income and profits outside the tonnage tax regime are taxed under the normal tax rules of the relevant tax jurisdiction.
The effective income tax rate on the underlying profit before tax is 19.2% 2013: 18.6%.
The effective rate on profit before income and tonnage tax from continuing operations is 17.8% 2013: 16.2%.
Unrecognised tax losses At 31 December 2014, the Group has unrecognised tax losses of 0.8m 2013: 0.1m.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses due to the uncertainty relating to their future recovery.
UK corporation tax rates are reducing from 28% to 20% over a period of four years from 2011.
The rate reduced to 21% on 1 April 2014 and a further reduction to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 has also been enacted.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax balance at 31 December 2014 has been calculated based on application of the reduced 20% UK corporation tax rate from the relevant date and the impact of the remeasurement has been included in the income statement and other comprehensive income as appropriate.
9 Deferred tax Deferred tax balances at 31 December relate to the following: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax assets Retirement benets 3,611 4,227 2,749 2,876 Share based payments 1,346 1,554 1,346 1,554 Derivative financial instruments 452 23 339 92 Losses carried forward - 107 - 107 Temporary differences - - 773 830 5,409 5,911 5,207 5,275 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 3,127 2,803 - - Intangible assets 2,812 2,531 - - Other items 2,679 1,061 - 9 3,260 4,273 - 9 Net deferred income tax asset 2,149 1,638 5,207 5,266 Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the consolidated balance sheet have been analysed according to the net exposures in each tax jurisdiction.
The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 1,638 1,826 5,266 5,246 Charged to comprehensive income 389 1,100 150 737 Charged to equity 178 483 178 483 Credited charged to income statement 1,262 969 31 274 Exchange adjustments 166 190 - - Acquisition of subsidiaries 350 730 - - Balance at 31 December 2,149 1,638 5,207 5,266 At 31 December 2014, the Group and the Company have no recognised deferred income tax liability 2013: nil in respect of taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Companys subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2014 the unrecognised gross temporary differences in respect of reserves of overseas subsidiaries is 27.7m 2013: 37.4m.
No deferred income tax liability has been recognised in respect of this temporary timing difference due to the foreign profits exemption, the availability of double taxation relief and the ability to control the remittance of earnings.
Deferred tax credited to the income statement in the year ending 31 December 2014 relates to the following: Group 2014 2013 000 000 Deferred tax assets 66 18 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment 324 488 Intangible assets 196 93 Other items 1,716 592 Deferred income tax credit 1,262 969 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 75 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, after excluding ordinary shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and held as treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
At 31 December 2014 182,124 options 2013: 172,227 were excluded from the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
The average market value of the Companys shares for purposes of calculating the dilutive effect of share options was based on quoted market prices for the period during which the options were outstanding.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following number of shares: Weighted average number of shares 2014 2013 Number of Number of shares shares For basic earnings per ordinary share 49,986,659 49,921,772 Potential exercise of share options and LTIPs 606,887 588,818 For diluted earnings per ordinary share 50,593,546 50,510,590 Excludes 153,192 2013: 154,170 shares owned by the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Adjusted earnings per share To provide a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group, an adjusted earnings per share on continuing activities is provided.
Adjusted earnings are before separately disclosed items.
2014 2013 000 000 profit attributable to owners of the Company 40,071 38,254 Adjustments: Separately disclosed items 2,381 4,875 Tax on separately disclosed items 243 270 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 37,447 33,109 pence pence Basic earnings per share on profit from operations 80.2 76.6 Diluted earnings per share on profit from operations 79.2 75.7 Adjusted basic earnings per share on profit from operations 74.9 66.3 Adjusted diluted earnings per share on profit from operations 74.0 65.6 11 Dividends paid and proposed 2014 2013 000 000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2013: 13.54p per share 2012: 11.83p 6,783 5,923 Interim dividend for 2014: 7.10p per share 2013: 6.46p 3,557 3,236 Less dividends on own shares held by ESOT 9 17 10,331 9,142 Proposed for approval at Annual General Meeting not recognised as a liability at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2014: 14.90p per share 2013: 13.54p 7,442 6,766 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 12 Goodwill Group 2014 2013 Cost and net book value: 000 000 At 1 January 104,176 86,390 Exchange differences 2,540 1,897 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12,742 19,683 At 31 December 114,378 104,176 Impairment of goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units CGUs.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each CGU by segment is: 2014 2013 000 000 Marine Support 32,790 25,717 Offshore Oil 39,105 40,732 Specialist Technical 32,224 27,468 Tankships 10,259 10,259 114,378 104,176 The recoverable amount of these units has been assessed based on value in use calculations using cash projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board for the next financial year together with projections derived from those budgets for the following four years.
A terminal value of cash ows beyond that date has been calculated at a growth rate in line with managements long-term expectations for the relevant market.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations include gross margin, discount rate, ination of overheads and payroll and growth rates.
Growth estimates are based on the levels achieved in the current and historic periods adjusted for management expectations of the impact of management actions and the future development of the relevant market.
Short-term growth rates for turnover vary between 2% and 44% which allows for significant growth in project based activities.
These growth rates are considered to be conservative and vary dependant on the market conditions in which the CGU operates.
Direct costs are expected to increase in line with turnover in initial periods before stabilising at a long-term inationary level of 2%.
Administrative costs are anticipated to increase at 1%.
Payroll ination reects the fact that the Group provides specialist services in a competitive market.
Payroll costs are therefore inuenced by the need to retain skilled staff.
As a result the initial growth rates for payroll costs range between 2% in mature business to up to 6% for specic posts in businesses located in areas where skilled staff are in short supply.
Discount rates reect managements estimate of the return required from the business to reect the cost of funds plus an appropriate risk premium.
This has been determined with reference to the CGUs weighted average cost of capital WACC, and adjusting it for risks specic to each CGUs cash ows.
The range of pre-tax discount rates used is 7.2% to 8.6% 2013: range of 9.5% to 10.6%.
An effective tax rate of 18.5% has been assumed.
Based on the value in use calculations performed no impairment of any of the cash generating units is required.
The key assumptions applied to each CGU are as follows: Marine Support: maximum short-term gross profit growth of businesses of between 3% and 55% with long-term growth of between 2% and 7%, maximum growth in direct costs of 34% with between 2% and 7% increase in the long-term.
Offshore Oil: maximum short-term gross profit growth of 18% with long-term growth of 2%, maximum growth in direct costs of 7% with 2% increase in the longterm.
Specialist Technical: maximum short-term gross profit growth of 32% with long-term growth between 2% and 7%, maximum growth in direct costs of 23% with between 2% and 7% increase in the long-term.
Tankships: maximum short-term gross profit growth of 13% with long-term growth of between 1% and 2% and maximum growth in direct costs between 1% and 2% increase in the long-term.
Sensitivity to impairment Sensitivity analysis has been performed to determine the impact of a reasonable change in a key assumption e. g. increase in discount rate by 1%, removal of long-term growth and no impairment issues were identied.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Otherintangible assets Group Development Intellectual Customer costs property relationships Total 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2013 5,691 590 1,417 7,698 Additions 1,370 57 3,444 4,871 Disposals 171 -- 171 Exchange differences - 8 153 161 At 31 December 2013 6,890 639 4,708 12,237 Additions 1,808 3,042 992 5,842 Exchange differences - 18 79 97 At 31 December 2014 8,698 3,663 5,621 17,982 Amortisation At 1 January 2013 397 374 684 1,455 Charge for the period 647 53 799 1,499 Disposals 118 -- 118 Exchange differences - 4 77 81 At 31 December 2013 926 423 1,406 2,755 Charge for the period 1,069 468 1,019 2,556 Exchange differences - 13 68 81 At 31 December 2014 1,995 878 2,357 5,230 Net book value at 31 December 2014 6,703 2,785 3,264 12,752 Net book value at 1 January 2014 5,964 216 3,302 9,482 Net book value at 1 January 2013 5,294 216 733 6,243 Intangible assets include intellectual property rights and patents and licences acquired by subsidiary companies relating to technology used in the subsidiarys principal operating activities, the fair value of customer relationships acquired and development costs relating to new products or processes.
Intangible assets are amortised evenly over their remaining useful life of between three and twenty years.
The amortisation charge is included in cost of sales in the income statement.
Based on an assessment of value in use there are no indications that any impairment of these assets has arisen during the period.
Included in ships are assets with a cost of 6.2m 2013: 5.2m and accumulated depreciation of 5.0m 2013: 4.2m which relate to assets held under operating leases.
Included in property, plant and equipment is aggregate interest capitalised of 1.1m 2013: 1.2m.
15Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements On 19 June 2014, as part of its acquisition of Testconsult Limited, the Group acquired a 50% equity interest in Eurotestconsult Limited, a company which provides monitoring, instrumentation and testing services.
The Group has a 45% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Fender Care Nigeria Limited, Silvertide Navigation Inc, Asteria Navigation Inc and FCN Limited and a 40% equity interest in Fendercare Marine M SDN BHD.
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of Fender Care Benelux BV and Fender Care Omega Limited.
These joint ventures, which are referred to as the FCM businesses, are marine services companies operating ship to ship transfers principally in the West Africa region and in Northern Europe and Asia.
The Group has a 50% equity interest in the ordinary shares of First Response Marine Pte Ltd FRM.
FRM provides submarine rescue services to the Singapore Government under a 20 year service contract which commenced in March 2009.
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Details of the principal joint ventures and associated undertakings are set out on page 104.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities and trading results of these joint venture entities at 31 December 2014, which are accounted for under the equity accounting method, are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Current assets 23,548 18,678 Non-current assets 23,347 24,759 Current liabilities 19,373 14,969 Non-current liabilities 20,129 20,734 Loans to associate 1,754 1,733 9,147 9,467 Revenue 16,951 23,009 Cost of sales 13,794 15,931 Administrative expenses 2,039 2,506 profit from operations 1,118 4,572 Finance income 3 4 Finance costs 707 1,713 profit before income tax 414 2,863 Taxation 228 485 profit after tax 186 2,378 Non-controlling interests 33 9 Net profit attributable to equity holders 153 2,387 Movement on investment in joint ventures: At 1 January 9,467 12,391 Acquisitions 30 - Disposals - 3,342 profit for the year 153 2,387 Dividends received 641 2,337 Share of fair value gains on cash ow hedges 133 703 Non-controlling interests 33 16 Exchange adjustments 238 319 At 31 December 9,147 9,467 There are no capital commitments or contingent liabilities in respect of the Groups interests in joint ventures.
16 Financial assets Available for sale 2014 2013 Group 000 000 At 1 January 1,378 1,370 Additions 100 - Acquisition of business - 8 At 31 December 1,478 1,378 Company At 1 January and 31 December 1,368 1,368 Available for sale financial assets include a 17.2% 2013: 17.2% equity interest in ordinary shares in SEML fide Co-operation Transmanche, an unlisted company incorporated in France, whose main activity is a port and ferry operator.
The Group has a 50% interest in DivexDomeyer GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany which provides in-service support and aftermarket services to the German Navy.
The Group does not actively participate in the operation and control of that business.
The investments listed above are in unquoted entities whereby the fair value of the shareholding cannot be readily ascertained or measured reliably.
The investments are therefore held at initial cost and are subject to an annual impairment review.
No impairment was required at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial assets continued Company Subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2013 84,371 155,245 239,616 Exchange adjustments - 549 549 Additions 5,667 74,368 80,035 Recapitalisations 66,888 66,888 - Repayments - 71,489 71,489 At 31 December 2013 156,926 91,785 248,711 Exchange adjustments --- Additions 387 50,171 50,558 Recapitalisations 2,351 2,351 - Repayments - 20,824 20,824 At 31 December 2014 159,664 118,781 278,445 Amount provided At 1 January 2013 445 388 833 Released - 40 40 At 31 December 2013 445 348 793 Released - 348 348 At 31 December 2014 445 - 445 Net book value at 31 December 2014 159,219 118,781 278,000 Net book value at 31 December 2013 156,481 91,437 247,918 A list of principal subsidiary undertakings is included on page 104.
17 Business combinations Year ended 31 December 2014 On 24 January 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Subsea Vision Limited Subsea, for a cash consideration of 2.2m.
Subsea owns and operates remotely operated vehicles providing underwater surveys, inspections and construction support to the oil and gas industry including oating production, storage and offtake vessels.
Subsea is included in the Marine Support division.
On 14 March 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Defence Consulting Europe AB DCE, for an initial cash consideration of 2.9m.
Contingent consideration is payable of up to 1.9m related to the achievement of profit targets and 1.0m is dependent on certain contractual obligations which are expected to be completed in the next twelve months.
The contingent consideration relating to future earnings has been discounted to reect the impact of the time value of money on the expected dates on which the consideration will be paid.
DCE provides a range of specialist swimmer delivery vehicles to the defence industry.
The business is included in the Specialist Technical division.
On 19 June 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Testconsult Limited Testconsult, for a net cash consideration of 8.0m.
Testconsult provides monitoring, instrumentation and testing services and is complementary to the Strainstall Monitoring business in the Marine Support division.
On 24 September 2014, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Solvapli Limited Solvapli, for a cash consideration of 50,000.
Solvapli provides downhole technological solutions to the offshore oil industry.
The Group also acquired intellectual property relating to this technology for a cash consideration of 1.2m.
The business is included in the Offshore Oil division.
82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out below.
Included in goodwill are certain intangible assets, including the anticipated impact on these businesses of distributing their products to existing Group customers, that cannot be individually separated and reliably measured due to their nature.
Accounting Fair Book policy value value adjustments adjustments Total Testconsult 000 000 000 000 Intangible assets -- 982 982 Investments 30 -- 30 Property, plant and equipment 669 - 25 644 Inventories 227 -- 227 Trade and other receivables 1,638 143 161 1,334 Cash and short-term deposits 1,502 -- 1,502 Trade and other payables 1,719 -- 1,719 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 35 -- 35 Deferred tax 44 - 196 240 Fair value of net assets acquired 2,268 143 600 2,725 Goodwill arising on acquisition 5,944 Cash consideration 8,669 Accounting Fair Book policy value value adjustments adjustments Total Otheracquisitions 000 000 000 000 Intangible assets -- 2,627 2,627 Property, plant and equipment 1,394 - 17 1,377 Inventories 1,081 159 314 608 Trade and other receivables 843 -- 843 Cash and short-term deposits 2,166 -- 2,166 Trade and other payables 4,883 -- 4,883 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 394 -- 394 Deferred tax 109 -- 109 Fair value of net assets acquired 98 159 2,296 2,235 Non-controlling interests 17 -- 17 Goodwill arising on acquisitions 6,796 9,048 Consideration: Cash 6,330 Contingent consideration 1,766 Deferred consideration 952 9,048 The book values of the acquired companies have been adjusted to reect adoption of the Groups income recognition policy and provision for warranty claims.
Fair value adjustments have been recognised in respect of intangible assets relating to customer relationships and intellectual property.
Trade receivables in the acquired entities comprise gross contracted amounts of 1.9m.
There is doubt over the collectability of 0.2m of this amount.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
Adjustments to provisional fair values No adjustments have been made to the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2013 to incorporate changes to the provisional fair values reported at that date.
Acquisition expenses The Group incurred acquisition expenses of 0.7m 2013: 0.9m in relation to these business combinations which have been charged to the income statement and included within administrative expenses.
Contribution to Group results The overall contribution of the businesses acquired during the period to the Groups profit after tax was 0.6m with 9.5m being contributed to Group revenues.
Had the business combinations taken place at the start of the financial year the contribution to Group profit from continuing operations for the year would have been 1.2m and the revenue from continuing operations would have been 14.9m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Business combinations continued Year ended 31 December 2013 On 5 March 2013, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Divex Limited and its subsidiaries Divex, for an initial cash consideration of 20.8m.
The principal activities of Divex are the design, supply and assembly of diving and subsea equipment.
Further contingent consideration was payable of up to 13.0m based on the future profitability from certain contracts during the five year period ending in December 2017.
Management has reviewed its forecasts at the end of December 2014 and has concluded that not all targets to achieve the full consideration will be achieved, as a result the provision has been revised down to 8.4m.
On 19 August 2013, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Osiris Marine Services Limited and Osiris Underwater Engineering Services Limited Osiris for an initial consideration of 3.3m.
The principal activities of Osiris are the supply of diving and subsea services to the renewable energy sector.
Further contingent consideration of up to a maximum of 1.3m was payable, linked to future annual profitability targets for the two years ended 30 June 2015.
Management has reviewed its forecasts at the end of December 2014 and concluded that it is unlikely that the target for the year to 30 June 2015 will be achieved.
The contingent consideration provided for that period has therefore been released to the income statement.
On 26 July 2013, the Group acquired the trade and assets of The Underwater Centre Freemantle Pty Ltd, a commercial diving training centre for a consideration of 0.7m.
During the year the Group also acquired the trade and assets of a maritime engineering consultancy for a consideration of 0.1m.
Disposals Year ended 31 December 2013 On 19 August 2013, the Group disposed of its 25% interest in Foreland Holdings Limited for a gross consideration of 11.4m.
The profit on disposal after related costs and provisions was 6.8m.
On 9 September 2013, the Group disposed of the marine leisure business of Fendercare Australia for a gross consideration of 1.4m, resulting in a loss on disposal of 0.2m.
18 Inventories Group 2014 2013 000 000 Work in progress 7,329 10,360 Raw materials and consumables 8,059 12,137 Finished goods 25,268 23,979 40,656 46,476 Group 2014 2013 000 000 Inventories stated at net realisable value 71 - Amount charged to the income statement in respect of inventory write-downs 778 547 Reversal of inventory write-downs 52 47 19 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Trade receivables 47,149 56,307 14 97 Amounts owed by group undertakings - - 1,476 997 Amounts owed by joint venture undertakings 6,069 1,134 - - Other non-trade receivables 7,880 4,878 2,895 1,098 Prepayments and accrued income 32,769 19,684 288 317 93,867 82,003 4,673 2,509 Construction contracts in progress 23,777 9,670 - - 117,644 91,673 4,673 2,509 At 31 December 2014, the aggregated amount of costs incurred and recognised profits less recognised losses to date under open construction contracts amounted to 23.5m 2013: 29.4m.
Retentions relating to construction contracts included in trade receivables are 0.1m 2013: nil.
Of the above other non-trade receivables of 0.3m 2013: 0.1m are expected to be recovered in more than one year.
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 20 Share capital Group and Company Authorised 66,320,000 ordinary shares of 25p each 100,000 3.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each Allotted, called up and fully paid 1 Cumulative 25p Ordinary shares preference shares In thousands of shares 2014 2013 2014 2013 In issue at 1 January 50,099 50,068 100 100 Exercise of share options - 31 - - In issue at 31 December 50,099 50,099 100 100 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Issued share capital 12,525 12,525 100 100 Rights attached to shares The shareholders have the following rights to receive dividends: 1 Cumulative preference shares receive 3.5% per annum on the par value: and 25p Ordinary shares as declared from time to time by the Directors.
Shares all carry equal voting rights of one vote per share held.
Neither type of share is redeemable.
In the event of a winding up order the amount receivable in respect of the cumulative preference shares is limited to their nominal value.
The ordinary shareholders are entitled to an unlimited share of the surplus after distribution to the cumulative preference shareholders.
Preference shares are treated as a liability in the balance sheet.
Treasury shares 2014 2013 000 000 153,192 2013: 154,170 ordinary shares of 25p 1,988 1,392 The Company has established an Employee Share Ownership Trust, the James Fisher and Sons plc Employee Share Ownership Trust, in connection with share option and long-term incentive schemes for employees.
These shares are classied as treasury shares in the accounts of the Group and Company.
The market value of these shares at 31 December 2014 was 1.8m 2013: 1.9m.
The Trust has not waived its right to receive dividends.
No ordinary shares of 25p were allotted on the exercise of share options in the year to 31 December 2014.
In the year ended 31 December 2013, 31,193 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 7,798 were issued under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme at an option price of 327p per share giving rise to total consideration of 102,001.
21 Trade and other payables Non-current liabilities Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Provision for contingent consideration 9,086 12,082 - - Accruals and deferred income 499 421 - - 9,585 12,503 - - Current liabilities Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 38,206 36,659 2,936 1,014 Amounts owed to group undertakings - - 12,881 11,077 Amounts owed to joint venture undertakings 1,506 2,278 - - Taxation and social security 5,371 3,005 239 63 Other payables 11,651 9,333 1,001 2,580 Accruals and deferred income 49,257 42,381 3,022 2,691 105,991 93,656 20,079 17,299 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Retirement benefit assets and obligations The retirement benefit obligations included in the Group and Company balance sheets relate to The James Fisher and Sons plc Pension Fund for Shore Staff Shore Staff : together with the Groups obligations to the Merchant Navy Ofcers Pension Fund MNOPF, an industry wide scheme which is also accounted for as a dened benefit scheme.
The Company has obligations under the Shore Staff and under the MNOPF scheme, the balance of which relates to its subsidiary, FT Everard & Sons Limited.
The valuations of the schemes have been updated to 31 December 2014 by qualied actuaries using agreed assumptions as detailed in the table of assumptions included below.
In 2014 the Group disposed of two dened benefit schemes located in Norway to an insurance company and is now operating a dened contribution scheme.
These were included in the 2013 table below at their fair value based on an actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2013.
The Groups obligations in respect of its pension schemes at 31 December 2014 were as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Shore staff pension scheme 10,522 9,777 10,522 9,777 MNOPF pension scheme 11,284 13,460 8,611 9,784 ScanTech pension scheme - 96 - - 21,806 23,141 19,133 19,561 Details of the schemes operated by the Group are as follows: James Fisher and Sons plc Pension Fund for Shore Staff The assets of this scheme are held in a separate trustee administered account.
The scheme was closed to new members in October 2001 when the Company changed to a dened contribution scheme for all new members.
The pension cost is assessed in accordance with the advice of professionally qualied actuaries.
These financial statements incorporate the latest full actuarial valuation of the Shore Staff Scheme carried out as at 31 July 2013, rolled forward to 31 December 2014.
The scheme closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010.
Contributions to the scheme from the Company amounted to 1.6m 2013: 1.6m.
Merchant Navy Ofcers Pension Fund In 2005 the High Court established that former as well as existing employers are liable to make payments in respect of the funding deficit of the MNOPF.
The Company was informed by the trustees as to the level of annual payments it will be required to make into the fund over a period of ten years commencing October 2005 representing its share of the deficit disclosed in the initial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2003.
As stated in note 27, the trustees have also indicated that they may make calls for further contributions in the future, if new deficits arise or if other employers liable for contributions are not able to pay their share.
The MNOPF is valued every three years and further deficits have typically been funded over a ten year period.
In May 2013, the trustees of the scheme concluded the triennial valuation of the scheme as at 31 March 2012.
The Groups share of the revised deficit was 4,163,000 and this was accounted for in the calculation of its 2013 liability.
The new liability will be funded over a ten year period from September 2013.
Since the Company has no control over the calls for contributions made from the MNOPF, it has determined that the fund should be accounted for as a dened benefit scheme and its liability recognised accordingly.
The share of the Group and Company in the MNOPF as advised by the trustees is Group 3.0% 2013: 3.0% and Company 1.4% 2013: 1.4%.
Disclosures relating to this scheme are based on these allocations.
The liability recognised represents the discounted value of committed cash ows.
Information supplied by the trustees of the MNOPF has been reviewed by the Companys actuaries.
The principal assumption in the review is the discount rate on the schemes liabilities which is 3.75% 2013: 4.65%.
The disclosures below relate to the Groups share of the assets and liabilities within the MNOPF.
Actuarial assumptions The last actuarial valuations performed have been updated to 31 December 2014 by the Companys actuary.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values on the respective balance sheet dates.
The overall expected rates of return on assets reect the risk free rate of return plus an appropriate risk premium based on the nature of the relevant asset category.
The principal assumptions used in updating the latest valuations for each of the schemes were: 2014 2013 Ination long-term rate after adjustment for short-term uctuations % 3.05 3.4 Rate of increase of pensions in payment - shore staff % 2.95 - 3.05 3.3 - 3.4 Discount rate for scheme liabilities % 3.75 4.65 Expected rates of return on assets % 3.75 4.65 Post retirement mortality years : Shore staff scheme Current pensioner at 65 - male 21.1 21.0 Current pensioner at 65 - female 23.4 23.3 Future pensioner at 65 - male 22.9 22.8 Future pensioner at 65 - female 25.3 25.2 ScanTech Produkt Current pensioner at 65 - male N A 21.8 Current pensioner at 65 - female N A 25.0 Future pensioner at 65 - male N A 22.4 Future pensioner at 65 - female N A 26.1 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The post retirement mortality assumptions allow for expected increase in longevity.
The current disclosures above relate to assumptions based on longevity in years following retirement at the balance sheet date, with future being that relating to a member who is currently 45 years old.
Investments The schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or used by the Group.
Sensitivities The key sensitivities on the major schemes may be summarised as follows: Shore staff scheme Key measure Change in assumption Change in deficit Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 3.2% Rate of ination Increase by 0.25% Increase by 1.5% Rate of mortality Increase in life expectancy of 1 year Increase by 3.2% MNOPF Key measure Change in assumption Change in deficit Discount rate Decrease of 0.25% Increase by 1.0% The assets and liabilities of the schemes at 31 December are: As at 31 December 2014 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Equities 7,135 5,140 - 12,275 7,135 2,419 9,554 Gilts corporate bonds - 31,674 - 31,674 - 14,905 14,905 Property - 75 - 75 - 35 35 Other investments 46,649 39,798 - 86,447 46,649 18,729 65,378 Cash net current assets 20 3,467 - 3,487 20 1,632 1,652 Fair value of scheme assets 53,804 80,154 - 133,958 53,804 37,720 91,524 Present value of scheme liabilities 64,326 91,438 - 155,764 64,326 46,331 110,657 Net pension liabilities recognised in the balance sheet 10,522 11,284 - 21,806 10,522 8,611 19,133 As at 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Equities 20,712 4,356 - 25,068 20,712 2,050 22,762 Gilts corporate bonds 23,611 7,836 232 31,679 23,611 3,687 27,298 Property - 954 - 954 - 449 449 Other investments 4,821 61,185 - 66,006 4,821 28,794 33,615 Cash net current assets 151 2,471 - 2,622 151 1,163 1,314 Fair value of scheme assets 49,295 76,802 232 126,329 49,295 36,143 85,438 Present value of scheme liabilities 59,072 90,262 136 149,470 59,072 45,927 104,999 Net pension liabilities assets recognised in the balance sheet 9,777 13,460 96 23,141 9,777 9,784 19,561 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued Expense recognised in the income statement included in administrative expenses and finance costs : Year ended 31 December 2014 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current service cost 30 -- 30 30 - 30 Expenses 143 -- 143 143 - 143 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,685 4,127 - 6,812 2,685 2,094 4,779 Return on scheme assets recorded in interest 2,264 3,572 - 5,836 2,264 1,681 3,945 594 555 - 1,149 594 413 1,007 Actual return on plan assets 5,757 5,757 Year ended 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current service cost 27 - 17 44 27 - 27 Settlement gains - 610 - 610 --- Expenses 141 -2 143 141 - 141 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,460 3,993 5 6,458 2,460 2,047 4,507 Return on scheme assets recorded in interest 2,062 3,291 8 5,361 2,062 1,687 3,749 566 92 16 674 566 360 926 Actual return on plan assets 4,027 4,027 Movements in the benefit liability asset during the year: Year ended 31 December 2014 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 As at 1 January 2014 9,777 13,460 96 23,141 9,777 9,784 19,561 Disposal -- 96 96 --- Expense recognised in the income statement 594 555 - 1,149 594 413 1,007 Contributions paid to scheme 1,655 3,051 - 4,706 1,655 1,818 3,473 Remeasurement losses 1,806 320 - 2,126 1,806 232 2,038 10,522 11,284 - 21,806 10,522 8,611 19,133 Year ended 31 December 2013 Group Company Shore ScanTech Shore staff MNOPF Produkt Total staff MNOPF Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 As at 1 January 2013 9,695 17,428 62 27,061 9,695 8,944 18,639 Expense recognised in the income statement 566 92 16 674 566 360 926 Contributions paid to scheme 1,654 8,485 - 10,139 1,654 1,689 3,343 Remeasurement loss gain 1,170 4,425 54 5,541 1,170 2,169 3,339 Effect of movement in exchange rates -- 4 4-- - 9,777 13,460 96 23,141 9,777 9,784 19,561 Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
The Directors do not consider it to be possible to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit recognised on transition to IFRS and taken directly to equity of 12.8m in the Group and Company is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since inception of those pension schemes.
Consequently the Directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have been recognised in the Group and Company statements of comprehensive income before January 2004.
Dened contribution schemes The Group operates a number of dened contribution schemes.
The pension charge for the year for these arrangements is equal to the contributions paid and was 4.4m 2013: 4.5m.
During the year the Company contributed 0.4m 2013: 0.3m into dened contribution schemes.
23 Share based payments The Company operates an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in respect of Directors and certain employees.
Details on these schemes are included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 46.
The Company also operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS scheme for eligible employees which is HM Revenue and Customs approved.
 2005 2005 ESOS Share options up to a maximum limit 100% of base salary may be awarded to Board Directors and senior executives.
The exercise price is equal to the market value at the date of grant.
The options vest depending on the Companys total shareholder return relative to the relevant comparator group.
If performance over a three year period is in the upper quartile, 100% of the options will vest.
For options granted before 31 December 2012, if performance is at the bottom of the median, second quartile 40% will vest.
For options granted thereafter 25% will vest at the median level.
The amount vesting will decrease on a straight line basis between the median and upper quartile.
If performance is below the median quartile no shares will vest.
A failure to meet these conditions during the performance period causes the options to lapse.
The contractual life of each option granted is ten years.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Awards were made under this scheme on 10 April 2014.
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS All employees, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, may apply for share options under an employee save as you earn plan which may from time to time be offered by the Company.
In order to comply with HM Revenue and Customs requirements an individuals participation is limited so that the aggregate price payable for shares under option at any time does not exceed the statutory limit.
Options granted under the plans will normally be exercisable if the employee remains in employment and any other conditions set by the Remuneration Committee have been satisfied.
Options are normally exercisable at the end of the related savings contract but early exercise is permitted in certain limited circumstances.
The performance period will not normally be less than three and a half years or greater than seven and a half years.
Awards were made under this scheme on 7 May 2014.
 LTIP Share options up to a maximum of 100% of base salary may be awarded to main Board Directors and senior executives.
The exercise price of the option is nil.
In respect of awards granted up to 31 December 2008, the options vest if the increase in the Companys diluted earnings per ordinary share over the performance period is at least equal to the rate of ination plus 9%.
A failure to meet this target increase during the performance period causes the options to lapse.
The contractual life of each option granted is three years.
For options granted since 31 December 2008, the options vest in full if the increase in diluted earnings per ordinary share over the performance period is at least equal to the rate of ination plus 18%.
If the increase is between 9% and 18% above the rate of ination the amount of shares vesting reduces on a pro rata basis until at growth of 9% one third of the options granted will vest.
Failure to reach the 9% plus the rate of ination threshold results in all options lapsing.
Awards were made under this scheme on 18 March 2014.
The expense recognised for share based payments relating to equity settled share based payments transactions is 1.2m 2013: 1.2m.
The Company has granted conditional awards in the form of options over shares or conditional rights to have shares transferred to certain employees under the LTIP scheme approved at the Annual General Meeting over 357,933 2013: 476,317 ordinary shares of 25p each.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of and movements in share options during the year.
In order to avoid distortion of the WAEP options having an exercise price of nil have been shown separately.
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3 years and 7 months 2013: 3 years and 10 months.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 8.12 2013: 5.40.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 3.27 - 14.89 2013: 3.27 - 10.50.
For the share options outstanding at 31 December 2014, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 4 years and 6 months 2013: 4 years and 10 months.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 14.30 2013: 5.74.
The fair value of equity settled share based payments has been estimated as at the date of grant using statistical models which will most appropriately determine the fair value of each type of scheme.
The Black-Scholes model has been used for the SRSOS and the LTIP schemes, the Binomial model for the 1995 ESOS and the Monte Carlo model for the 2005 ESOS.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 23 Share based payments continued The inputs to the models used to determine the valuations fell within the following ranges: 2014 2013 LTIP Dividend yield % 1.50% 2.00% Expected life of option years 3 3 Share price at date of grant 14.89 10.25 2005 ESOS Dividend yield % 1.50% 2.00% Expected life of option years 6.5 6.5 Share price at date of grant 14.65 10.46 Expected share price volatility % 25% 30% Risk free interest rate % 2.12% 1.11% SRSOS Dividend yield % 1.50% 2.00% Expected life of option years 3.26-7.26 3.26-7.26 Share price at date of grant 13.93 9.63 Expected share price volatility % 25% 30% Risk free interest rate % 1.38%-1.99% 0.45%-0.96% The expected share price volatility which is based on historic volatility, is the range within which the continuously compounded annual rate of return on the Companys shares is expected to fall approximately two thirds of the time.
There were no loans secured against the assets of the Group or Company in the current or prior period.
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts Group The Group uses finance leases in respect of certain items of plant and equipment.
The minimum future lease payments due under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are as follows: Group 2014 2013 000 000 Future minimum payments due: Within one year 65 154 Within two to five years 38 84 103 238 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods 15 27 88 211 Present value of minimum lease payments is analysed as follows: Within one year 54 71 Within two to five years 34 140 88 211 Company The Company does not have any outstanding finance lease commitments.
25 Reconciliation of net debt Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had 81.4m 2013: 68.8m of undrawn committed facilities none of which expire within twelve months.
The Group is required to maintain covenant ratios in respect of net debt to earnings before interest and depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, net interest costs to earnings before interest EBIT and EBIT and operating lease costs to net interest and operating lease costs.
The Group has met its covenant ratios for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Directors have prepared forecasts of the cash ows for the subsequent eighteen month period which indicate that taking into account the factors noted above the Group will meet its covenant requirements for this period.
The Group has a borrowing covenant which restricts the total amount that it is able to borrow under revolving credit facilities to a maximum of 150.0m 2013: 150.0m.
The Group manages its capital structure through maintaining close relationships with its bankers who provide the majority of funds used for acquisitions.
Capital is monitored by measuring the gearing ratio which is a measure derived from net debt divided by capital.
Net debt comprises interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Capital represents net equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
Return on capital employed is also monitored.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the expected growth in sustainable income streams after making provision for the retention of capital to invest in growth and acquisitions.
In evaluating growth investment opportunities the Group has a target of 15% pre tax return on the capital invested.
2014 2013 000 000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 79,953 78,160 Less cash and cash equivalents 17,719 23,982 Net debt 62,234 54,178 Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent 202,754 182,904 Gearing ratio 30.7% 29.6% The reasons for the change in gearing over the previous year are discussed in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 22.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Interest rate risk Foreign exchange risk Details of the Groups financial instrument risk management objectives, strategies and policies are set out on pages 1 to 22 of the Strategic report.
Further information on these risks is presented below and is included in other disclosures throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Creditrisk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
These arise principally from the Groups receivables from customers.
94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Available for sale financial assets 1,478 1,378 1,368 1,368 Receivables 108,142 84,655 4,385 2,598 Cash and cash equivalents 17,719 23,982 402 2,846 Interest rate swaps used for hedging: Assets 49 547 49 547 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Assets - 866 - 866 127,388 111,428 6,204 8,225 There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and the industry and country in which each customer operates.
The Group has a number of large customers including Government agencies in the UK and overseas, major oil companies and other multinational corporations.
The ten largest customers of the Group accounted for approximately 37% of Group revenue 2013: 30%.
No customer accounted for more than 7% 2013: 8% of Group revenue.
New customers are subject to creditworthiness checks and credit limits are subject to approval by senior management.
Goods are sold subject to retention of title clauses so that in the event of non-payment the Group may have a secured claim.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
At 31 December the value of trade debtors outstanding was: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Gross Allowance Gross Allowance Gross Allowance Gross Allowance 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Not past due 43,665 - 48,426 - 14 - 97 - Past due 26,075 815 13,018 1,074 -- -- 69,740 815 61,444 1,074 14 - 97 - The Group establishes an allowance for unrecoverable amounts, movements on which are as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 1,074 899 - - Exchange differences 1 68 - - On acquisition of subsidiaries 76 297 - - Provided in the year 247 494 - - Recoveries 343 197 - - Write offs 238 351 - - 815 1,074 - - The Group considers that the trade receivables that have not been provided against and are past due by more than 30 days are still collectable based on historic payment behaviour and extensive analysis of underlying customers credit ratings.
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that apart from the amounts included in the table above, no further impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables.
Liquidityrisk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group manages its cash resources to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due but in a manner designed to maximise the benefit of those resources whilst ensuring the security of investment resources.
The Group forecasts the prole of its cash requirements on a monthly basis and ensures that sufficient facilities are available to meet peak requirements which occur at predictable times in the year.
The Group manages the maturity prole of its borrowings by maintaining a regular dialogue with its lenders and ensuring that it commences the renegotiation of facilities sufciently early to allow a comprehensive review of its requirements before completion.
The Groups revolving credit facilities extend over several accounting periods and fall due for renewal in different accounting periods ensuring that the Group negotiations with individual lenders follow an orderly process which does not expose the Group to the possibility of a significant reduction in available facilities in a single period.
At 31 December 2014, the Group has available 81.4m of undrawn committed bank facilities 2013: 68.8m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments: 31 December 2014 Group Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount ows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 79,865 87,775 2,433 14,002 56,907 14,433 Finance lease liabilities 88 88 54 34 -- Trade and other payables 97,059 97,059 97,059 --- Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 651 1,723 577 323 808 15 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outow 1,664 1,563 1,563 --- Inow 23 13,564 13,564 --- 178,002 174,644 88,122 14,359 57,715 14,448 31 December 2013 Group Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount ows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 77,949 83,426 2,747 47,305 24,744 8,630 Finance lease liabilities 211 211 140 43 28 - Trade and other payables 98,639 98,639 98,639 --- Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 94 1,723 577 323 808 15 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outow 13 3,041 3,041 --- Inow 866 17,218 17,218 --- 175,852 169,822 87,926 47,671 25,580 8,645 31 December 2014 Company Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount ows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 103,809 111,719 26,377 14,002 56,907 14,433 Trade and other payables 17,055 17,055 17,055 --- Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 651 1,146 323 323 500 - Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outow 1,664 1,563 1,563 --- Inow 23 13,564 13,564 --- 121,854 117,919 31,754 14,325 57,407 14,433 31 December 2013 Company Contractual More Carrying cash Within 1 1 - 2 2 - 5 than amount ows year years years 5 years 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 94,621 100,098 19,419 47,305 24,744 8,630 Trade and other payables 15,904 15,904 15,904 --- Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps used for hedging 6 1,490 344 323 808 15 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging Outow 13 3,041 3,041 --- Inow 866 17,218 17,218 --- 109,666 103,315 21,490 47,628 25,552 8,645 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Foreign exchange risk The Group incurs foreign currency risks on sales, purchases and borrowings denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
The Groups principal transactional exposures are to the US Dollar and Euro.
The principal exposures arising from its net investment overseas is to the Norwegian Kroner.
The Groups objectives in managing its structural currency exposures are to maintain a low cost of borrowings and to minimise the risk of adverse currency movements to its cash ow.
Gains and losses arising from the Groups net investments overseas are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
A change in Angolan legislation effective from 1 July 2013 required in-country monetary transfers to be transacted in local currency.
Exchange control regulations can potentially impact the transferability of cash balances in certain countries of operation.
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its transactional exposures.
Most forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the balance sheet date.
Forward exchange contracts which qualify as effective cash ow hedges are included at their fair value in the hedging reserve and in current assets or short-term liabilities until the earlier of their maturity or the date the transaction to which they relate is recognised at which point they are transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the level of exchange rates will have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The following table shows the impact on earnings of a 5% strengthening in the exchange rate in the Groups key currencies against Sterling.
The obverse movements would be of the same magnitude.
These amounts have been calculated by applying changes in exchange rates to the Groups foreign currency profits and losses and to financial instruments denominated in foreign currency.
2014 2013 Equity profit or loss Equity profit or loss 000 000 000 000 US Dollar 1,433 3,477 158 42 Norwegian Kroner 246 140 325 280 Euro 131 266 3,485 3,183 UAE Dirham 365 44 277 157 Singapore Dollar 408 251 315 1,172 Australian Dollar 411 160 233 559 Malaysian Ringgit 40 18 40 124 3,034 3,788 2,603 5,517 Interest rate risk The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to uctuations in interest rates.
The interest rate prole of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out in the table below.
The Group has used interest rate swaps to convert interest rates on certain borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Details of the interest rate swaps are shown in the table below: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Fixed rate instruments Financial liabilities 100 100 100 100 Variable rate instruments Financial assets 17,719 23,982 402 2,846 Financial liabilities 79,865 77,949 103,809 94,621 62,146 53,967 103,407 91,775 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued Where hedging criteria are met the Group classies interest rate swaps as cash ow hedges and states them at fair value.
Over the longer term permanent changes in interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At 31 December 2014 a general increase of one percentage point would have had the following impact: 2014 2013 Equity profit or loss Equity profit or loss 000 000 000 000 Variable rate instruments - 621 - 540 Interest rate swap - 310 - 398 Cash ow sensitivity - 311 - 142 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Group 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note 000 000 000 000 Assets carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 49 49 866 866 Assets carried at amortised cost Receivables 19 108,142 108,142 84,655 84,655 Cash and cash equivalents 17,719 17,719 23,982 23,982 Other investments 16 1,478 1,478 1,378 1,378 127,339 127,339 110,015 110,015 Liabilities carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 1,685 1,685 13 13 Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives 6 6 -- Interest rate swaps - cash ow hedges 651 651 94 94 2,342 2,342 107 107 Liabilities carried at amortised cost Unsecured bank loans 24 79,865 74,727 77,949 74,071 Trade and other payables 21 87,973 87,973 86,557 86,557 Finance leases 24 88 90 211 227 Preference shares 20 100 100 100 100 168,026 162,890 164,817 160,955 Company 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note 000 000 000 000 Assets carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 49 49 866 866 Assets carried at amortised cost Receivables 19 4,385 4,385 2,598 2,598 Cash and cash equivalents 402 402 2,846 2,846 Other investments 16 1,368 1,368 1,368 1,368 6,155 6,155 6,812 6,812 Liabilities carried at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 1,685 1,685 13 13 Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives 6 6 -- Interest rate swaps - cash ow hedges 651 651 6 6 2,342 2,342 19 19 Liabilities carried at amortised cost Overdrafts 24 23,944 23,944 16,672 16,672 Unsecured bank loans 24 79,865 74,727 77,949 74,071 Trade and other payables 21 17,055 17,055 15,904 15,904 Preference shares 20 100 100 100 100 120,964 115,826 110,625 106,747 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Fair value has been determined by reference to the market value at the balance sheet date or by discounting the relevant cash ows using current interest rates for similar instruments.
The fair value of the financial assets has been assessed by the Directors with reference to the current prospects of the investments and risks associated with those prospects.
Fair value hierarchy The Group classies fair value measurement using a fair value hierarchy that reects the signicance of inputs used in making measurements of fair value.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: a Level 1 - Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
b Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and c Level 3 - Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments carried at fair value by the level of fair value hierarchy: Group Level 2 2014 2013 000 000 Financial assets measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 49 866 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 1,685 13 Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives 6 - Interest rate swaps - cash ow hedges 651 94 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Unsecured bank loans 74,727 74,071 Finance leases 90 227 77,159 74,405 77,110 73,539 Company Level 2 2014 2013 000 000 Financial assets measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 49 866 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Forward exchange contracts - cash ow hedges 1,685 13 Forward exchange contracts - other derivatives 6 - Interest rate swaps - cash ow hedges 651 6 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Unsecured bank loans 74,727 74,071 77,069 74,090 77,020 73,224 There have been no transfers between categories during the period.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts and forward exchange contracts are calculated by management based on external valuations received from the Groups bankers and is based on forward exchange rates and anticipated future interest yields respectively.
Hedges - Group and Company Fair value hedges At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the Group did not have any outstanding fair value hedges.
Cash ow hedges At 31 December 2014 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars and Euro.
The terms of the contracts are as follows: Exchange Fair value Maturity rate 000 Sell US$ 22,668,000 January 2015 - February 2016 1.7612 1,659 Buy Eur 1,955,587 April 2015 - January 2016 1.2513 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Financial instruments continued At 31 December 2013 the Group and Company held forward currency contracts designated to hedge future commitments in US Dollars.
The terms of the contracts are as follows: Exchange Fair value Maturity rate 000 Sell US$ 27,100,000 January 2014 - August 2014 1.5367 866 Buy Eur 3,637,040 January 2014 - July 2014 1.1956 9 The foreign exchange contracts have been negotiated to match the expected prole of receipts.
At 31 December 2014 these hedges were assessed to be highly effective and an unrealised loss of 2.6m 2013: 0.3m relating to the hedging instruments is included in equity.
Interest rate swaps The Group and Company entered into interest rate swap contracts in respect of Sterling denominated debt to swap a variable rate liability for a xed rate liability.
A subsidiary company, ScanTech Eiendom AS, entered into an interest rate swap in respect of a loan secured against the new build property included in its balance sheet.
On disposal of this business this instrument was reassigned to the external borrowings of James Fisher Norway AS.
This contractual arrangement ended on 30 June 2014.
These instruments have been allocated against the Group and Company debt in the tables shown above.
Details of the contracts and their fair values at 31 December are set out below: Amount Fair value 2014 2013 Fixed rate 2014 2013 000 000 Maturity % 000 000 Sterling interest rate swaps 31,000 41,500 30 January 2017 to 30 January 2019 1.03% - 3.71% 651 6 NOK000 NOK000 NOK interest rate swaps - 80,000 - 88 Derivative financial instruments not qualifying as hedges At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 the Group did not hold any derivative financial instruments which did not qualify for hedge accounting.
27 Commitments and contingencies Operating leases The future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Within one year 13,101 15,877 205 56 After one year but not more than five years 16,811 24,392 243 133 After five years 10,499 12,256 5 27 40,411 52,525 453 216 The Group has entered into leases on certain properties, vessels, plant and motor vehicles.
These leases have a life of between one and ten years and are renewable at the option of the lessee.
As noted in the contingent liabilities section below, certain of the lease liabilities in relation to bareboat charters are guaranteed by a member of the Group other than the entity holding the charter.
Capital commitments At 31 December capital commitments for which no provision has been made in these accounts amounted to: Group Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 3,895 2,439 - - 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Contingent liabilities a In the ordinary course of the Companys business, counter indemnities have been given to bankers in respect of custom bonds, foreign exchange commitments and bank guarantees.
b A Group VAT registration is operated by the Company and 27 group undertakings in respect of which the Company is jointly and severally liable for all amounts due to HM Revenue & Customs under the arrangement.
c A guarantee has been issued by the Group and Company to charter parties in respect of obligations of a subsidiary, James Fisher Everard Limited, in respect of charters relating to seven vessels.
The charters expire between 2015 and 2017. d Subsidiaries of the Group have issued performance and payment guarantees to third parties with a total value of 4,726,000 2013: 6,850,000. e The trustees of the Merchant Navy Ofcers Pension Fund MNOPF have indicated that under the terms of the High Court ruling in 2005 which established the liability of past employers to fund the deficit on the post-1978 section of the MNOPF, they may make calls for further contributions in the future if additional actuarial deficits arise or if other employers liable for contributions are not able to pay their share.
The Group and Company remains jointly and severally liable for any future shortfall in recovery of the deficit.
f The Group has given an unlimited guarantee to the Singapore Navy in respect of the performance of First Response Marine Pte Ltd, its Singapore joint venture, in relation to the provision of submarine rescue and related activities.
g In the normal course of business, the Company and certain subsidiaries have given parental and subsidiary guarantees in support of loan and banking arrangements.
h In 2011 the High Court established that past employers as well as current employers of the Merchant Navy Ratings Pension Fund MNRPF would be required to fund any deficit on the MNRPF.
The trustees of the scheme having consulted with past and present employers on the method to be used to calculate liability, applied to the High Court in late 2014 for a ruling that introducing a proposed new deficit contribution regime is a proper exercise of their amendment power.
The court gave conrmation early in 2015.
The trustees had previously indicated that they believe that the Group has a liability in respect of this scheme.
Due to the uncertainty associated with the timing and amount of this liability the Directors have concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision at this time.
28 Related party transactions Transactions with related parties Company The Company has entered into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings primarily in respect of the provision of accounting services, finance and the provision of share options to employees of subsidiaries.
The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings to the Company at 31 December 2014 was 118.8m 2013: 92.8m.
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings by the Company at 31 December 2014 totalled 12.9m 2013: 11.1m.
The Company has had no expense in respect of bad or doubtful debts of subsidiary undertakings in the year 2013: nil.
Group FCM businesses The Group has interests of between 40% and 50% in several joint ventures providing ship to ship transfer services in West Africa, Northern Europe and Asia through its wholly owned subsidiary, Fender Care Marine Services Limited.
First Response Marine The Group holds, through its James Fisher Marine Services subsidiary JFMS, a 50% interest in First Response Marine Pte Ltd FRM.
Included in the contract is the provision of a submarine rescue vessel acquired by FRM from JFMS.
FRM subcontracts part of the provision of the submarine rescue service to JFMS and its subsidiary James Fisher Singapore Pte Ltd. JFMS has also provided a loan to FRM of 1.8m to support its day to day operations.
The loan which is included in the Group balance sheet as part of the investment in joint ventures is interest bearing and is repayable at the end of the project.
Interest charged in the period amounted to 0.1m 2013: 0.1m.
Dividends received or receivable during the period included in the results of the Group are 0.5m 2013: 0.7m.
DivexDomeyer The Group through its Divex Limited subsidiary has a 50% stake in DivexDomeyer, an entity which provides in-service support and aftermarket services to customers in Germany.
Details of equipment sales to this entity are set out in the table overleaf.
Eurotestconsult The Group through its Testconsult Limited subsidiary has a 50% stake in Eurotestconsult, an entity which provides testing services to customers in Europe.
Details of service sales and recharges for labour and subcontractor works to this entity are set out in the table overleaf.
James Fisher AngolaLimitada In May 2012 a loan of 325,000 was advanced from James Fisher Angola Limitada to Bouclier Limitada a company controlled by the Groups joint venture partner.
This loan which is unsecured and does not carry interest, represents an advance payment in respect of the borrowers future entitlement to dividends from James Fisher Angola Limitada.
In November 2014, a further loan of 301,000 was advanced from James Fisher Angola Limitada to Bouclier Limitada.
These amounts remain outstanding at 31 December 2014.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 James Fisher and Sons plc Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Related party transactions continued Details of the transactions carried out with related parties are shown in the table below: Purchases Amounts Amounts Services to Sales to from owed by owed to related related related related related parties parties parties parties parties 000 000 000 000 000 Foreland Shipping Limited 2014 N A N A N A N A N A 2013 354 ---- FCM businesses 2014 - 9,332 658 5,159 1,506 2013 - 4,159 1,192 474 2,273 First Response Marine 2014 603 2,629 228 661 - 2013 2,676 -5 660 5 DivexDomeyer 2014 - 368 - 111 - 2013 - 397 - 171 - Eurotestconsult 2014 - 1,061 - 137 - No provision for bad debts has been made in respect of these balances 2013: nil.
No bad debts arose during the period relating to these transactions 2013: nil.
All transactions with related parties are priced on an arms length basis on terms equivalent to those provided to wholly external parties.
29 Post balance sheet events On 15 January 2015, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of High Technology Sources Limited HTSL, for cash consideration of 2.2m.
HTSL provides an extensive range of sealed industrial sources and reference and calibration sources through their exclusive UK distribution agreements.
HTSL will be included in the Groups Specialist Technical division.
On 10 February 2015, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of the National Hyperbaric Centre Limited NHC for an initial cash consideration of 3.5m with a further contingent consideration of up to a maximum of 1.0m based on specic future contracts undertaken post completion.
NHC operates hyperbaric testing chambers which are used for testing equipment for the subsea industry.
Its services include reception personnel for decompression, subsea equipment testing, training services to the diving industry and hyperbaric welding trials to customers worldwide.
It also operates a hyperbaric chamber for patients of the NHS Grampian.
NHC will be included in the Groups Specialist Technical division.
On 2 March 2015, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Subtech Group Holdings Pty Limited Subtech for an initial 3.4m with potential contingent consideration based on profitability between 2015 and 2019 of up to 14.7m.
Subtech is a Durban based marine services business with operations in Namibia and Mozambique, and will be included within in the Marine Support division.
Further disclosures relating to the acquisitions as required by IFRS 3 - Business Combinations, have not been included in this report as there has been insufficient time to obtain and review the relevant financial information from the companies and calculate the accounting treatment and disclosures for these business combinations.
