Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of James Fisher and Sons plc will be held at the Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness, LA13 0PA on Thursday 30April 2015 at 12 noon to consider and, if thought t, to pass Resolutions 1 to 16 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 17 to 19 as special resolutions.
Ordinary Business Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Accounts and the reports of the Directors and the auditor thereon for the year ended 31December 2014.
Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration policy report contained in the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31December 2014.
Resolution 3 To approve the Directors remuneration report other than the part containing the Remuneration policy report for the year ended 31December 2014.
Resolution 4 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31December 2014 of 14.9p per ordinary share.
Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr C J Rice as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr N P Henry as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Mr S C Kilpatrick as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 8 To re-elect Mr M S Paul as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 9 To re-elect Mr D G Moorhouse as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 10 To re-elect Mr M J L Salter as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 11 To elect Ms A I Comiskey as a Director of the Company.
Resolution 12 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Resolution 13 To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special Business Resolution 14 That the proposed amendments to the rules of the James Fisher Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP as referred to in the Appendix and explanatory notes to this Notice of AGM, and contained in the amended rules of the 2011 LTIP produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to implement such amendments, including renaming the updated 2011 LTIP as the James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Resolution 15 That the rules of the James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Sharesave Plan 2015 Sharesave as referred to in the Appendix and explanatory notes to this Notice of AGM and produced in draft to this meeting and, for the purposes of identication, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and the Directors be authorised to: a make such modications to the 2015 Sharesave as they may consider appropriate to take account of the requirements of HMRC and best practice, and for the implementation of the 2015 Sharesave and to adopt the 2015 Sharesave as so modied and to do all such other acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the 2015 Sharesave: and b establish further plans based on the 2015 Sharesave but modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual or overall participation in the 2015 Sharesave.
Resolution 16 That the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into, shares in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,174,918 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company or, if earlier, on 30June 2016, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and, that all authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot shares and grant Rights that remain unexercised at the commencement of this meeting be and are hereby revoked.
Resolution 17 Special Resolution That subject to the passing of Resolution 16, the Directors be hereby empowered to allot equity securities as dened in section 560 of the Act of the Company for cash either pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 16 and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the Act, in either case as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the Directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 626,238: and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 16 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
106 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Resolution 18 Special Resolution The Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of up to a maximum aggregate of 2,504,951 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company at a price per share exclusive of expenses of not less than 25p and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Ofcial List, for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, such authority will expire at the close of the next AGM of the Company, or, if earlier, on 30June 2016 save that the Company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date where such purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
Resolution 19 Special Resolution That any general meeting other than an AGM may be called by not less than 14 days clear notice.
By order of the Board Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 2March 2015 Registered ofce: Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR Registered in England number: 211475 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
Any member who has not elected to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2014 may obtain copies by writing to the Company Secretary, Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR.
Members who wish to receive the printed Annual Report and Accounts, free of charge, in future years should write to the Companys Registrars, FREEPOST CAPITA SAS.
Please note that delivery using this service can take up to 5 business days.
Any member entitled to vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting in order to represent a member.
A proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or if you wish the proxy to speak on your behalf another person who has agreed to attend and represent a member.
Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person as a proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person, in which case that members proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
Proxy forms, duly executed including any authority under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certied notarially, should be returned to Capita Asset Services, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU.
Alternatively you may submit your proxy form online by accessing the shareholder portal at www.
com, logging in and selecting the proxy voting link.
If you have not previously registered for electronic communications, you will first be asked to register as a new user, for which you will require your investor code which can be found on your proxy card, share certicate or dividend tax voucher, family name and post code if resident in the UK.
In each case your proxy instruction must be received no later than 12 noon on 28April 2015.
If you are a CREST member, see note 4 below.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions, and any attempt to amend a proxy appointment after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid proxy appointments are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
The right to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised by persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Person : they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s at the AGM.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the general meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
108 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 6.
Copies of the Directors service contracts, the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, together with a copy of the Companys Articles of Association and a copy of the proposed amended rules of the James Fisher Long-Term Incentive Plan and the new James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Sharesave will be available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and English public holidays excepted until the close of the AGM and are available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 11.30 a. m. on the date of the meeting until the close of the meeting.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting, that the members propose to raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditors no later than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website.
The Company must cause to be answered at the meeting any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting which is put by a member attending the meeting, except where: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
A member may not use any electronic address provided by the Company in this document or with any proxy appointment form or in any website for communication with the Company for any purpose in relation to the meeting other than as expressly stated in it.
Only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00pm on 28April 2015 or, if the meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
As at 2March 2015 being the latest practical date before the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 50,099,015 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and 100,000 preference shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 50,199,015.
There are no shares in treasury.
As soon as practicable following the AGM, the results of the voting at the meeting and the number of votes cast for and against and the number of votes withheld in respect of each resolution will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service and also placed on the Companys website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Ordinary Business Explanatory Notes Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report before the Company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the accounts, the auditors report, the Directors report, the Directors Remuneration report and the Strategic report.
The Company proposes, as an ordinary resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors remuneration policy In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors remuneration policy contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The proposed policy is set out on pages 35 to 39 of the Annual Report.
The vote on Resolution 2 is a binding vote and, if passed, will mean that the Directors can only make remuneration payments in accordance with the approved policy.
The Company is required to ensure that a vote on its Remuneration policy takes place annually unless the approved policy remains unchanged, in which case the Company will propose a similar resolution at least every three years.
Resolution 3 Approval of the Directors remuneration report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31December 2014.
The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 33 to 46 of the Annual Report and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors remuneration report containing the Directors remuneration policy which is set out on pages 35 to 39.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend can only be paid after it has been approved by the shareholders in general meeting and may not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.9p per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31December 2014.
If the meeting approves Resolution 4, the final dividend will be paid on 8May 2015 to ordinary shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 10April 2015.
It is proposed to pay the dividend.
Resolutions 5 to 11 Re-election and election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors will retire each year and that each Director must stand for re-election at least every three years.
However the UK Corporate Governance Code Code provides that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to re-election by their shareholders every year.
In accordance with this provision of the Code, the Board has decided that all Directors shall retire at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
Aedamar Comiskey who joined the Company on 1November 2014 as a Non-Executive Director will be proposed for election for the first time at this years AGM.
Following performance reviews the Chairman and the Board believe that each of the Directors standing for re-election or election continue to perform effectively and with commitment to their role including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and other duties.
The Board also considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent in character and judgement.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 11 shall be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Biographical details of each of our Directors appear on page 23 of the Annual Report.
Resolutions 12 and 13 Re-Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next such meeting.
These resolutions propose the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor to hold ofce from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and authorises the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
Special Business Explanatory Notes Resolutions 14 and 15 Updating the LTIP and establishing a new all employee share plan Resolution 14 seeks authority from shareholders to update the terms of the existing James Fisher Long-Term Incentive Plan 2011 LTIP.
The updated terms of the 2011 LTIP have been developed by the Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors to bring the 2011 LTIP into line with current market and best practice and to govern future award policy.
110 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As per under the existing rules of the 2011 LTIP, the updated form of the 2011 LTIP would continue to provide for discretionary annual share based awards ordinarily vesting three years from grant, subject to continued service and to the extent to which performance criteria are met over a three year measurement period.
Recent policy at the Company has been to deliver share incentive policy for Executive Directors through a mix of awards under the 2011 LTIP and also market price share option awards under the recently expired 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
It is currently intended that the updated form of the 2011 LTIP which would in connection with the proposed amendments also be renamed the James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP will be the primary long-term incentive arrangement for the Companys Executive Directors and senior management, with no further use of market price option awards.
A summary of the proposed amendments to the 2011 LTIP together with details of the performance conditions proposed for the first awards under it to the Companys Executive Directors is set out in the 1st Appendix to this Notice.
Resolution 15 seeks authority from shareholders for the implementation of a new all employee sharesave scheme, the James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Sharesave Scheme 2015 Sharesave, to replace the existing James Fisher and Sons plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which expires in 2015.
Sharesave schemes are all employee savings related share option plans under which UK based employees may be invited by the Company to sign up to savings contracts to save up to 500 per month over a three or five year savings term.
On the maturity of the contracts, participants can elect to use their savings and any interest to exercise a related share option to acquire shares on UK tax favoured terms or ask for the return of the savings and any interest.
A summary of the principal terms of the 2015 Sharesave is set out in the 2nd Appendix to this Notice.
Resolution 16 Authority to allot shares Authority is given to the Directors to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, and convert any security into shares in the Company up to a total nominal amount of 4,174,918 16,699,672 ordinary shares representing approximately 33% of the nominal value of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital as at 2March 2015 being the latest practical date before publication of this Notice.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2016, or, if earlier, on 30June 2016 and replaces an authority granted on 1May 2014 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
At 2March 2015 the Company does not hold any treasury shares.
Resolution 17 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders This resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to renew the authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Other than in connection with a rights or other similar issue or scrip dividend where difficulties arise in offering shares to certain overseas shareholders and in relation to fractional entitlements the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal value of 626,238 representing 2,504,951 ordinary shares which represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued equity share capital as at 2March 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this notice.
The renewed authority will remain in force until the date of the next AGM or on 30June 2016, whichever is the earlier and replaces the authority granted on 1May 2014 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
It is a standard resolution for most UK listed companies each year.
In line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three years and the Directors confirm their intention to follow the best practice set out in the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles which provides that companies should not issues shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolution 18 Authority to purchase own shares This special resolution, gives the Company authority to purchase in the market up to 2,504,951 of its ordinary shares of 25p each representing approximately 5% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital.
The minimum and maximum prices at which such shares can be purchased is as stated in the resolution.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2016, or on 30June 2016, whichever is earlier, and replaces a similar authority granted on 1May 2014 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued If any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority are not held by the Company as treasury shares then such shares would be immediately cancelled in which event the number of ordinary shares in issue would be reduced.
As at 2March 2015, being the latest practical date before publication of this Notice, there were options over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company representing 2.59% of the Companys total issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full and those shares were subsequently cancelled, these options would represent 2.72% of the Companys total issued share capital.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority and in reaching their decision to purchase ordinary shares will take into account, amongst other things the Companys cash resources and capital requirements, the effect of any purchase on earnings per share and whether it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Resolution 19 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
This special resolution renews an authority given at last years AGM and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006 Act coming into force.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice.
In order to be able to preserve this ability, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Resolution 19, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks such approval.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the exibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and to its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings of shares in the Company.
112 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1st Appendix Proposed amendments to the rules of the 2011 LTIP As per under the existing rules of the 2011 LTIP, the updated form of the 2011 LTIP would continue to provide for discretionary annual share based awards ordinarily vesting three years from grant, subject to continued service and to the extent to which performance criteria are met over a three year measurement period.
A summary of the proposed amendment to the rules of the 2011 LTIP is set out below.
Please note, for the purpose of the summary below, for ease of context, we refer to the proposed amended form of the 2011 LTIP as the 2015 LTIP.
Increase in individual award limit The rules of the 2011 LTIP currently provide that in any plan year a participant may receive awards of market value at grant of up to 100% of annual base salary.
As the Remuneration Committees Committee intention is for future award policy to be governed solely through the 2015 LTIP with no tandem award policy under a market price share option plan such as the recently expired ESOS it is proposed that the 2015 LTIPs limit would be set at a market value calculated on such basis as the Committee reasonably determines of up to 200% of annual base salary.
The Committees current intention is that, in practice, awards under the 2015 LTIP are unlikely to be granted in excess of 150% of annual base salary.
Flexibility to set different performance conditions for future awards The rules of the 2011 LTIP currently provide that awards must solely be subject to earnings per share EPS growth performance condition.
It is proposed that first awards under the 2015 LTIP would be subject to the following two independent performance conditions.
70% of an award EPS Element will be subject to a performance condition based on the Companys EPS growth over a performance period of three financial years starting with the financial year in which the award is granted Performance Period.
To ensure that the targets remain suitably challenging throughout the Performance Period, the Committee will have discretion to adjust the calculation of EPS growth to ensure a consistent basis of calculation following any changes to accounting standards.
The following vesting schedule for the EPS Element of such awards would apply: Consolidated EPS growth in excess of RPI over the Performance Period Percentage of the EPS Element that vests Less than 9% 0% 9% 25% Between 9% and 18% On a straight line basis between 25% and 100% 18% or more 100% The remaining 30% of each of the first award TSR Element proposed under the 2015 LTIP would be subject to performance based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the Performance Period relative to the TSR performance over the same period of a comparator group of companies as at the start of the Performance Period.
The following vesting schedule for the TSR Element of such awards would apply: Rank of the Companys TSR performance relative to the TSRs of the comparator group companies over the Performance Period Percentage of the TSR Element that vests Below median 0% Median 25% Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 25% and 100% Upper quartile or above 100% The relevant TSR gures may be calculated by reference to an averaging period at the beginning and end of the Performance Period.
Any such period will be specified by the Committee prior to the grant of the awards.
Under the terms of the 2015 LTIP the Committee would retain discretion to set such alternative targets as it considered appropriate for subsequent awards.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued For example, this could include the Committee using EPS and TSR measures but varying the relative weighting between the EPS and TSR measures, or to choose other financial measures to apply to future awards, to reect the evolving priorities for the business.
The terms of the 2015 LTIP will also include discretion for the Committee to vary the performance conditions applying to awards following their grant under the 2015 LTIP if an event has occurred which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied targets are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original performance conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Include the exibility to award dividend equivalents to the extent awards vest The terms of the 2015 LTIP will include a new feature under which the Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the settlement of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the shares subject to such awards between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
This amount may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Include the exibility to structure future awards as nil or nominal cost options In line with current market practice, the 2015 LTIP will provide exibility to structure awards either as condition share awards as per the 2011 LTIP or as nil or nominal cost options if it so decides nil cost options currently are not catered for under the 2011 LTIP.
Once vested, awards in the form of nil or nominal options granted to individuals who are tax resident in the UK would be exercisable up until the day before the tenth anniversary of grant, unless they lapse earlier under the terms of the 2015 LTIP.
Fixed vesting date for 2015 awards only In light of the fact that the proposed amendments to the 2011 LTIP require shareholder approval before awards can be granted under the amended terms, the award date for the 2015 awards will be delayed from the normal April date to May 2015.
As a result, in respect of the 2015 awards only, the terms of the 2015 LTIP will permit the vesting period for the 2015 awards to be slightly shorter than three years so that the awards may vest on 6April 2018, subject to continued service, and the three year performance conditions being met.
Recovery and withholding The terms of the 2015 LTIP will provide that the Committee may decide at any time between the grant of an award and the third anniversary of the date of its vesting that the award will be subject to recovery and withholding where there has been a material misstatement in the Companys financial results, miscalculation, serious reputational damage to the Company or in the event it is discovered the participant committed serious misconduct that could have warranted summary dismissal.
The recovery and withholding may be satisfied by way of a reduction in the amount of any future bonus and or subsisting award held under an incentive arrangement vested or otherwise and or by way of a requirement to make a cash payment.
114 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2nd Appendix Summary of principal terms of the James Fisher and Sons plc 2015 Sharesave Scheme 2015 Sharesave Operation The operation of the 2015 Sharesave will be supervised by the Board of Directors of the Company Board.
It will be UK tax advantaged under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and implemented in order to provide UK tax advantaged options to UK employees.
Eligibility Employees and full time Directors of the Company and any designated participating subsidiary who are UK resident tax payers are eligible to participate.
The Board may require employees to have completed a qualifying period of employment of up to five years before the grant of options.
The Board may also allow other employees to participate.
Grant of options Options can only be granted to employees who enter into HMRC savings contracts, under which monthly savings are normally made over a period of three or five years.
Options must be granted within 30 days or 42 days if applications are scaled back of the first day by reference to which the option price is set.
The number of shares over which an option is granted will be such that the total option price payable for those shares will correspond to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract.
An option may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the 2015 Sharesave.
Options are not transferable, except on death.
Individual participation Monthly savings by an employee under all savings contracts linked to options granted under any sharesave scheme may not exceed the statutory maximum currently 500.
The Board may set a lower limit in relation to any particular grant.
Option price The price per share payable upon the exercise of an option will not be less than the higher of: i 80per cent of the average middle market quotation of a share on the London Stock Exchange on the five days preceding a date specified in an invitation to participate in the 2015 Sharesave or such other day or days as may be agreed with HMRC : and ii if the option relates only to new issue shares, the nominal value of a share.
The option price will be determined by reference to dealing days which fall within six weeks of the announcement by the Company of its results for any period or at any other time when the Board considers there to be exceptional circumstances which justify offering options under the 2015 Sharesave.
Exercise of options Options will normally be exercisable for a six month period from the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the related savings contracts.
Earlier exercise is permitted, however, in the following circumstances: following cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, a relevant transfer under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006, or the business or company that the employee works for ceasing to be part of the Companys group: where employment ceases more than three years from grant for any reason other than dismissal for misconduct: and in the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the Company, except in the case of an internal corporate re-organisation when the Board may decide to exchange existing options for equivalent new options over shares in a new holding company.
Except where stated above, options will lapse on cessation of employment or directorship with the Companys group.
Shares will be allotted or transferred to participants within 30 days of exercise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 James Fisher and Sons plc Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Overall plan limits The 2015 Sharesave may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the 2015 Sharesave and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of these limits unless the institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Variation of capital If there is a variation in the Companys share capital then the Board may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of shares under option and the option price.
Rights attaching to shares Any shares allotted when an option is exercised under the 2015 Sharesave will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Alterations to the 2015 Sharesave The Board may amend the provisions of the 2015 Sharesave in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares to be acquired and the adjustment of options.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the 2015 Sharesave, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Companys group.
Overseas sharesave plans The shareholder resolution to approve the 2015 Sharesave will allow the Board, without further shareholder approval, to establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the 2015 Sharesave, but modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation in the 2015 Sharesave.
