124 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Key judgements Corporate information In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made the following judgements based on the Glencore plc formerly Glencore Xstrata plc, the Company, relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic Parent, the Group or Glencore, is a leading integrated circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying producer and marketer of natural resources, with worldwide agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts activities in the production, refinement, processing, storage, recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
transport and marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, Allocation of acquisition goodwill to cash generating units CGUs marketing and distributing physical commodities sourced from notes 8, 9 and 25 third party producers and own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and The allocation of goodwill created as a result of a business food processing industries.
Glencore also provides financing, combination is a significant judgement which is, in part, impacted logistics and other services to producers and consumers of by the identification of synergies expected to be realised as a commodities.
In this regard, Glencore seeks to capture value result of a business combination and allocating those synergies throughout the commodity supply chain.
Glencores long to the CGUs which are expected to benefit from the synergies.
experience as a commodity producer and merchant has allowed it The allocation of goodwill impacts the carrying value of CGUs to develop and build upon its expertise in the commodities which it and the associated assessment of impairment in connection with markets and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier those CGUs.
The most significant judgements in respect of goodwill and customer base across diverse industries and in multiple allocation relate to the acquisition of Xstrata, which was completed geographic regions.
No goodwill was recognised in conjunction with any of the business combinations occurring in 2014.
Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements note 35 on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements.
This requires an These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue assessment of the relevant activities those relating to the operating in accordance with a Directors resolution on 17 March 2015. and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, Statement of compliance remunerating and terminating the key management personnel The accounting policies adopted are prepared in accordance with: or service providers of the operations and when the decisions in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and require unanimous consent.
interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 31 December 2014: and Judgement is also required in determining the classification of a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as of the arrangement.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions method or proportionate consolidation method.
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Exploration and evaluation expenditure notes 7 and 30 financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and The application of Glencores accounting policy for exploration and expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploitation and other factors, including expectations of future events that are or sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage that permits believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, areasonable assessment of the existence of reserves resource.
independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, industry standard modelling techniques.
Actual outcomes could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets orliabilities affected in future periods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical to understanding Glencores financial position as they require management to make complex and or subjective judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that areinherently uncertain: 125 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Credit and performance risk note 26 to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates.
This could generally result when there are significant changes in any of the The Groups global marketing operations expose it to credit factors or assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum and performance the risk that counterparties fail to sell or reserves and resources, notably changes in the geology of the purchase physical commodities on agreed terms risks: these arise reserves and resources and assumptions used in determining particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility the economic feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in reserves with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global and and resources could similarly impact the useful lives of assets or regional macroeconomic conditions are weak.
depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited to the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is the underlying reserves and resources.
Estimates of proven required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are and probable reserves and resources are prepared by experts in recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received.
extraction, geology and reserve determination.
Assessments of Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and may materially impact both non-current and current assets as theoperating and development plan are performed regularly.
recognised in the statement of financial position.
Impairments notes 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 Recognition of deferred tax assets note 6 Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves an assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully and a judgement as to whether there will be sufficient taxable recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty and therefore, the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates there can be a material increase or decrease in the amounts which are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted recognised in the consolidated statement of income in the period using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations inwhich the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred tax about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about assets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and are reviewed regularly by management.
resources, operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital expenditures.
Changes in such estimates could impact Key estimates and assumptions recoverable values of these assets.
Estimates are reviewed regularly In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, by management.
management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
Provisions note 22 The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, a significant impact on the financial position and the results of contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate operations, are described below.
Actual results may differ from of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and may materially affect financial results or the financial position uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
The Group assesses reported in future periods.
its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements.
Valuation of derivative instruments note 28 These provisions may require settlement in future periods and Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore as such may be materially impacted by the time value of money.
evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data The determination of the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 2 to reflect time value of money is a source of estimation uncertainty and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair values which could impact the carrying value of these provisions at the are determined in the following ways: externally verified via balance sheet date.
comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models with externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs note 22 using alternative procedures such as comparison to comparable A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and instruments and or using models with unobservable market decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be inputs requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude Level 3.
Level 3 inputs therefore include the highestlevel of of the possible disturbance, the timing, extent and costs of the estimation uncertainty.
required closure and rehabilitation activities and of the risk adjusted discount rates used to determine the present value of Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, deferred the future cash outflows.
To the extent that the actual future mining costs and plant and equipment note 7 costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded Mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and certain and the consolidated statement of income could be impacted.
plant and equipment are depreciated amortised using the Units The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained of Production basis UOP.
The calculation of the UOP rate of therein are reviewed regularly by management.
depreciation amortisation, and therefore the annual charge 126 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Amendments to IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Fair value measurements notes 9, 12, 25, 26, 27 and 28 The amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, Measurement clarify the criteria required to be met such that there as discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and would be no need to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most derivative was novated.
notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
IFRIC 21 Levies In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged The interpretation clarifies that an entity recognises a liability at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are for a levy no earlier than when the activity that triggers payment, therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs.
It also clarifies actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be that a levy liability is accrued progressively only if the activity derived from publicly available information, they are estimated that triggers payment occurs over a period of time, in accordance using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, with the relevant legislation.
For a levy that is triggered upon the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally reaching a minimum threshold, no liability is recognised before verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject the specified minimum threshold is reached.
The interpretation to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based requires these same principles to be applied in interim financial transactions rarely exist.
IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and is applied retrospectively.
It is Adoption of new and revised Standards applicable to all levies imposed by governments under legislation, other than outflows that are within the scope of other standards In the current year, Glencore has applied a number of new and e. g. IAS 12 Income Taxes and fines or other penalties for breaches revised IFRS standards and interpretations which were adopted as of legislation.
of 1 January 2014: The adoption of these new amendments and interpretations Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities hashad no material impact on the Group.
These amendments provide an exception to the consolidation requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment New and revised Standards not yet effective entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial The exception to consolidation requires investment entities to statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.
are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS 11 Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods The amendments, effective for year-ends beginning on or after of Depreciation and Amortisation effective for year-ends beginning on 1 January 2016, but with early adoption permitted, were early orafter 1 January 2016 adopted in conjunction with the acquisition of Caracal Energy Inc.
The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment These amendments address how a joint operator should account prohibits entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for the acquisition of an additional interest in a joint operation in for items of property, plant and equipment and the amendments which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a business.
to IAS 38 Intangible Assets introduce a rebuttable presumption IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, as amended now requires that such that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of transactions shall be accounted for using the principles related to intangible assets.
business combinations according to IFRS 3 Business Combinations and other standards and that any previously held interests in the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for existing joint operation is not to be remeasured to fair value.
year-ends beginning on or after 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and Liabilities replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS.
The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to The amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
clarify the requirements relating to the offset of financial assets and liabilities.
Specifically, the amendments clarify the meaning IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for year-ends beginning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and onorafter 1 January 2018 simultaneous realisation and settlement.
IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosure for Nonclasses of financial assets and liabilities.
The most significant Financial Assets change is to rationalise from 4 to 2 primary categories of financial assets.
The amendments to IAS 36 Impairments of Assets: Presentation clarify the disclosure required in relation to the recoverable amount The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new and of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs revised standards may have on the financial statements of Glencore.
127 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Basis of preparation The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains control liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control of amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income exchange for goods and services.
The principal accounting policies from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore adopted are set out below.
ceases to control the subsidiary.
The Directors have assessed that the financial statements be Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income prepared on a going concern basis after their consideration of the are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the nonGroups budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, including controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review and in accordance interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having with the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of a deficit balance.
UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements for managing its capital and financial risks are detailed in note 26. of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full functional currency of Glencores operations.
Principles of consolidation Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with statements of the Company and entities including structured any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries.
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to equity holders of Glencore.
variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is has all of the following: calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are withthe investee: and accounted for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting theinvestee including: under IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on initial recognition ofan investment in an associate or a joint venture.
the size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the sizeand dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders: Investments in associates and joint ventures potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders Associates and joint ventures together Associates in which orother parties: Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
128 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencores Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an purchased goodwill.
Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
For the purpose of impairment Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in the acquisition date, allocated to the CGUs that are expected to that Associate.
benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for as a or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount by be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the value of the consideration received being recognised directly in the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to consolidated statement of income.
the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is Joint operations recognised directly in profit or loss.
An impairment loss recognised A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that for goodwill is not able to be reversed in subsequent periods.
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, on disposal.
Glencore applies the proportionate consolidation method and recognises: If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly: Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly: for additional information obtained during the measurement its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date the joint operation: about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint that date.
operation: and its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net revenues and expenses.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in that inanother IFRS.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of Business combinations and goodwill interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets are recognised at their fair value at Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal thedate of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will inthe consolidated statement of income as incurred.
be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores and the sale is highly probable.
Non-current assets held for sale are previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains costs of disposal.
control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in theconsolidated statement of income.
129 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Revenue recognition Borrowing costs Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold.
to the financing of construction or development of qualifying Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured.
Retirement benefits In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded the customers premises.
by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance companies equal the contributions that are required under the For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a plans and accounted for as an expense.
provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and booking.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair statement of income so as to recognise current and past service value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that the consolidated statement of income.
The retirement benefit the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of obligation asset recognised in the consolidated statement of income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised on financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant Glencores defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, byreference calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in interest rate.
future contributions to the plans.
Foreign currency translation Glencore also provides post retirement healthcare benefits to Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
themajority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit tobe the principal currency of the economic environment in pension plans, however are unfunded.
Share-based payments Foreign currency transactions Equity-settled share-based payments Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting year-end are converted at year-end rates.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
Translation of financial statements For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of companies whose functional currency is in a currency other the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result than the US dollar are translated into US dollars using year-end ofthe effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the using average rates of exchange for the year.
consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition retained earnings.
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of shareholders equity and have no consolidated statement of income impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
130 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Property, plant and equipment Cash-settled share-based payments Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards to the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated based performance conditions.
Subsequently, at each reporting depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated statement of income.
residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine Income taxes LOM, field or lease.
Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end The major categories of property, plant and equipment are on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax depreciated amortised on a UOP and or straight-line basis payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised as follows: for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding Buildings 10 45 years tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted Freehold land not depreciated or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary difference.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only Mineral and petroleum rights UOP recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
Deferred mining costs UOP Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks benefit will be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate the expenditures for which are charged against income over to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has theaccounting periods covered by the lease term.
both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of Mineral and petroleum rights certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal reasonably determined are not recognised.
Exploitable Mineral of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
Mineral resources are included in These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income Exploration and evaluation expenditure in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly resources and includes costs such as exploration and production in equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a licenses, researching and analysing historical exploration data, business combination.
exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of prefeasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred of an income tax including being imposed and determined except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from in accordance with regulations established by the respective future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned governments taxation authority and the amount payable is based to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached or as a percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is commercially recoverable reserves, in which case theexpenditure provided on the same basis as described above for other forms iscapitalised.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are oftaxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that donot satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions and included in cost of goods sold.
131 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
As the intangible c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the component i. e. licenses represents an insignificant and improved access can be reliably measured.
indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future exploitation, these If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs costs along with other capitalised exploration and evaluation are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they expenditure is recorded as a component of property, plant are incurred.
The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, an accumulated impairment losses.
assessment is performed for each area of interest or at the CGU level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to Biological assets be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in exploration area are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning term of the permit.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted Development expenditure using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the to construction in progress, a component within the plant and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
All subsequent development expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds from the sale of created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at product extracted during the development phase are netted against their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement development expenditure.
Upon completion of development and of income as extraction progresses.
commencement of production, capitalised development costs are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by production method UOP or straight-line basis.
recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided Deferred mining costs the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated Mainly comprises of certain capitalised costs related to capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised underground mining as well as pre-production and in-production cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in stripping activities as outlined below.
Deferred mining costs are the consolidated statement of income.
In the case of closed sites, amortised using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the which those costs relate.
Deferred stripping costs Intangible assets Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a ofconstructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
the life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation calculated on a straight-line In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable basis over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of if any.
improved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity asset, are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all the Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the following conditions are met: related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement ofincome and other comprehensive income in the period in which a it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the expenditure is incurred.
the stripping activity will be realised: b the component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be identified: and 132 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable method and period are reviewed annually and impairment amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment amount may not be recoverable.
Other than goodwill which is not loss had not been recognised.
Goodwill impairments and depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot be indefinite life.
The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line Provisions basis as follows: Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation Port allocation rights 30 - 40 years legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can Licences, trademarks and software 3 - 20 years be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
Royalty arrangements 30 - 40 years Acquired offtake arrangements 5 - 10 years The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties Other investments surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of determinable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in fair the time value of money is material.
value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value Onerous contracts movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured Impairment as provisions.
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any Unfavourable contracts indications of impairment.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
A formal impairment test involves determining whether the Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
the economic loss and amortised into income over the term An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its ofthe contract.
fairvalue less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do Inventories not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
The vast majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value less costs of disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, or net realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as incurred.
133 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Cash and cash equivalents Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of recognised in cost of goods sold.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised Financial instruments asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii a Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly investments or available for sale financial assets depending probable transaction.
upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value other investments, derivatives and marketable securities or amortised A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge-reserve Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released to at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated Convertible bonds statement of income when it occurs.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge a market rate for a similar non-convertible instrument.
The liability no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative component is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders using the effective interest method.
The equity component is equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised as the difference between the fair value of the proceeds income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately as a whole and the fair value of the liability component and it recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, is not subsequently remeasured.
On conversion, the liability if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is the consolidated statement of income and upon expiry of the immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
conversion rights, any remaining equity portion will be transferred to retained earnings.
A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments and Own shares atthedate of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated fromthe host contract and accounted for as a standalone The cost of purchases of own shares are deducted from equity.
derivativeif the criteria for separation are met.
The host contract Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no isaccounted for inaccordance with its relevant accounting policy.
gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
Derivatives and hedging activities Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
134 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amounts represent Glencores share of income related to Xstrata prior Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in 3 core to the date of acquisition in May 2013 and other unallocated business segments metals and minerals, energy products and Group related expenses including variable pool bonus charges.
agricultural products, with each business segment responsible Statement of financial position amounts represent Group for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial related balances.
investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the The financial performance of the segments is principally performance of Glencore.
evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and The business segments contributions to the Group are administrative expenses plus share of income from other associates primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share physical marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical of underlying Adjusted EBIT EBITDA of certain associates and commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add joint ventures which are accounted for internally by means of services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities proportionate consolidation.
net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as underlying key commodities: those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates and joint ventures.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, Antamina copper zinc mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, mine 33% owned are considered to be associates as they are refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% relevant commodities: owned is considered to be a joint venture.
Associates and joint Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencores financial metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: and analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencores Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported of the investments.
The balances as presented for internal reporting by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures as port facilities.
outlined in the following tables.
135 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products andother Total Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983 Marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1,515 524 856 105 2,790 Depreciation and amortisation 30 41 140 211 Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 565 996 105 3,001 Industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 3,674 486 136 380 3,916 1 Depreciation and amortisation 3,403 2,355 77 12 5,847 Adjusted EBITDA 7,077 2,841 213 368 9,763 Total adjusted EBITDA 8,622 3,406 1,209 473 12,764 Depreciation and amortisation 3,433 2,396 217 12 6,058 Total adjusted EBIT 5,189 1,010 992 485 6,706 2 Significant items 3 Other expense net 1,073 4 Share of associates exceptional items 74 5 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments andother 221 6 Interest expense net 1,457 7 Gain on sale of investments 715 8 Income tax expense 2,152 Income for the year 2,444 1 Includes an adjustment of $610 million 2013: $447 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $430 million 2013: $271 million and Energy products segment $180 million 2013: $176 million, see table below, page 138.
2 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
4 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Lonmin, relating mainly to various costs incurred in connection with the prolonged platinum strikes in South Africa.
5 Comprises the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions of $187 million 2013: $261 million.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
The balance comprises an adjustment of $34 million 2013: $nil arising from losses incurred as a result of typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
6 Includes an adjustment of $14 million 2013: $6 million to interest income related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: interest income of $18 million and Energy products segment interest expense of $4 million, see table below, page 138.
8 Includes an adjustment of $343 million 2013: $329 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $266 million and Energy products segment $77 million, see table below, page 138.
136 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued 2013 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate Total 1 US$ million minerals products products andother Restated Revenue 65,321 139,768 30,039 138 235,266 Marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1,622 629 198 93 2,356 Depreciation and amortisation 21 37 185 243 Adjusted EBITDA 1,643 666 383 93 2,599 Industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 2,742 907 6 29 3,614 2 Depreciation and amortisation 2,554 1,623 67 9 4,253 Adjusted EBITDA 5,296 2,530 61 20 7,867 Total adjusted EBITDA 6,939 3,196 444 113 10,466 Depreciation and amortisation 2,575 1,660 252 9 4,496 Total adjusted EBIT 4,364 1,536 192 122 5,970 3 Significant items 4 Other expense net 11,488 5 Share of associates exceptional items 51 6 Mark-to-market loss on certain natural gas contracts 95 7 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 261 8 Interest expense net 1,394 9 Loss on sale of investments 40 10 Income tax expense 583 Loss for the year 7,942 1 Other expense net adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 4 and 25.
2 Includes an adjustment of $447 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $271 million and Energy products segment $176 million, see table below, page 138.
3 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
5 Share of associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various costs incurred by Xstrata in connection with its acquisition by Glencore.
6 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between spot and forward prices in respect of certain aluminium commercial hedging activities where such amounts will reverse in future periods.
Due to the hedging being done on a portfolio basis, hedge treatment for IFRS accounting purposes where such amounts would not impact the consolidated statement of income is not achievable.
7 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
8 Includes an adjustment of $6 million to interest expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: interest income of $1 million and Energy products segment interest expense of $7 million, see table below, page 138.
10 Includes an adjustment of $329 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis.
Metals and minerals segment: $299 million and Energy products segment $30 million, see table below, page 138.
137 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products andother Total Current assets 29,620 14,433 6,758 447 50,364 Current liabilities 11,334 17,264 2,870 474 31,942 Allocatable current capital employed 18,286 2,831 3,888 921 18,422 Property, plant and equipment 38,663 28,039 2,899 509 70,110 Intangible assets 3,728 4,097 902 139 8,866 Investments in associates and other investments 9,660 3,561 525 13,746 Non-current advances and loans 1,834 2,518 138 107 4,597 Allocatable non-current capital employed 53,885 38,215 4,464 755 97,319 1 Other assets 4,522 4,522 2 Other liabilities 68,783 68,783 Total net assets 72,171 35,384 8,352 64,427 51,480 Capital expenditure 6,982 2,294 249 2 9,527 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
2013 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate Total 1 US$ million minerals products products andother Restated Current assets 26,737 17,164 6,554 316 50,771 Current liabilities 10,456 15,671 2,708 529 29,364 Allocatable current capital employed 16,281 1,493 3,846 213 21,407 Property, plant and equipment 36,533 27,173 3,195 332 67,233 Intangible assets 3,755 4,374 883 146 9,158 Investments in associates and other investments 9,439 3,191 430 19 13,079 Non-current advances and loans 987 2,461 141 406 3,995 Allocatable non-current capital employed 50,714 37,199 4,649 903 93,465 2 Other assets 10,626 10,626 3 Other liabilities 72,817 72,817 Total net assets 66,995 38,692 8,495 61,501 52,681 Capital expenditure 7,114 2,696 293 4 10,107 1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
3 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale.
138 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 2.
SEGMENT INFORMATION continued The reconciliation of certain associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT to Share of net income from associates and joint ventures for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows: 2014 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products andother Total Revenue Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 2,156 754 2,910 Revenue reported measure 63,894 131,226 25,821 132 221,073 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 1,292 260 1,552 Depreciation and amortisation 430 180 610 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 862 80 942 Net finance costs 18 4 14 Income tax expense 266 77 343 Net finance costs and income tax expense 248 81 329 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures 614 1 613 Share of income from other associates 36 3 58 25 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 578 2 58 638 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 6,982 2,294 249 2 9,527 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 368 99 467 Capital expenditure reported measure 6,614 2,195 249 2 9,060 2013 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products andother Total Revenue Revenue 65,321 139,768 30,039 138 235,266 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 1,973 599 2,572 Revenue reported measure 63,348 139,169 30,039 138 232,694 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA 1,249 238 1,487 Depreciation and amortisation 271 176 447 Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBIT 978 62 1,040 Net finance costs 1 7 6 Income tax expense 299 30 329 Net finance costs and income tax expense 298 37 335 Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures 680 25 705 Share of income from other associates 37 45 7 126 141 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 643 70 7 126 846 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure 7,114 2,696 293 4 10,107 Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 376 144 520 Capital expenditure reported measure 6,738 2,552 293 4 9,587 139 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT of certain associates and joint ventures.
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation.
The reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT EBITDA to the reported measures is as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 Reported measures Revenue 221,073 232,694 Cost of goods sold 214,344 227,145 Selling and administrative expenses 1,304 1,206 Share of associates and joint ventures 638 846 Dividend income 19 39 6,082 5,228 Adjustments to reported measures Share of associates exceptional items 74 51 Mark-to-market valuation on certain contracts 95 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination 221 261 295 407 Net finance and income tax expense impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 329 335 Adjusted EBIT 6,706 5,970 Depreciation and amortisation 5,448 4,049 Depreciation impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 610 447 Adjusted EBITDA 12,764 10,466 Geographical information 2013 1 US$ million 2014 Restated 2 Revenue from third parties The Americas 47,274 54,675 Europe 70,595 78,782 Asia 86,619 84,835 Africa 8,206 8,688 Oceania 8,379 5,714 221,073 232,694 3 Non-current assets The Americas 23,471 23,817 Europe 9,316 9,331 Asia 5,922 5,692 Africa 23,642 21,524 Oceania 28,899 28,183 91,250 88,547 1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
3 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
140 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 3.
GAIN LOSS ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS US$ million 2014 2013 Gain on sale of Las Bambas 715 Loss on sale in investment in associates 40 Total 715 40 On 31 July 2014, the Las Bambas sale transaction was completed, resulting in a gain of $715 million.
Tax of $531 million was paid upon completion, resulting in a net gain of $184 million see note 15.
The net loss on sale of investments in associates in 2013 comprised primarily an accounting dilution loss following an Xstrata share issuance in April 2013, which saw Glencores ownership reduce.
OTHER EXPENSE NET 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated Impairments 5 1,101 9,730 Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading net 134 308 Foreign exchange loss 76 126 Acquisition related expenses 10 330 Premium on bond buybacks 95 Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses net 1,160 2 Changes in mark-to-market valuation of certain coal forward contracts 87 3 Other expense net 75 79 Total 1,073 11,488 1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 This item, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
All other amounts in Other expense net are classified byfunction.
3 Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprises a $75 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
Other expense net for the year ended 31 December 2013 includes a $15 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and $37 million of income relating to the Agrium and Richardson assets which were acquired and subsequently sold as part of the Viterra acquisition.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expenses net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise tothem are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expenses net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations and acquisitions, restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading net Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencores interest in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. and Century Aluminum Company cash settled swaps accounting for the majority of the movement seenote 10.
Acquisition related expenses 2014 acquisition related expenses were incurred in connection with current year acquisitions see note 25.
2013 acquisition related expenses occurred in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25 and comprise $59 million of costs incurred with the required cancellation of the Nyrstar offtake agreement, $98 million of professional advisers fees related to the acquisition and $137 million of stamp duty and restructuring costs.
In addition, there was $36 million of Viterra acquisition related expenses in 2013.
Premium on bond buybacks In June, Glencore tendered for and cancelled 25% of its outstanding convertible bonds and Canadian dollar bonds originally issued by the Viterra Group acquired by Glencore in 2012, booking the premium over book carrying value as an expense of $70 million see note 20 and $25 million respectively.
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses net In May 2013, Glencore completed the acquisition of the additional 66% interest in Xstrata it did not previously own see note 25.
At the dateof acquisition, the previously owned interest was revalued to its fair value based on the share price at 2 May 2013 the Acquisition Date as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and as a result, a $1,160 million loss was recognised.
141 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Changes in mark-to-market valuation of certain coal forward contracts This previously represented movements in the fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodecos future production, into which it planned to physically deliver.
Following the legal re-acquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an accounting perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as own use or as cash flow hedges, which would have deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
As at year-end 2013, all tonnes of suchcoal had been physically delivered.
IMPAIRMENTS 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment 8,124 Available for sale instruments 10 446 Non-current advances and loans 11 300 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 8 886 779 Investments 10 135 2 Non-current inventory and other 80 81 3 Total impairments 1,101 9,730 1 The Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment has been adjusted by $ 466 million as a result of the finalisation of the fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of Xstrata seenote 25.
2 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
3 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $791 million 2013: $8,933 million, Energy products $247 million 2013: $797 million and Agricultural products $63 million 2013: $nil.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets During the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required as part of our regular portfolio review, the following impairment charges resulted: 2014 Following the steep decline in iron ore prices and the decision to slow down development at our Mauritanian and Congo iron ore operations Metals and minerals segment their carrying values were impaired by $431 million, to their estimated recoverable value of $50 million.
Upon further review and evaluation of our exploration activities at the Matanda Oil field in Cameroon Energy product segment, it was determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying value of $212 million was impaired.
The continued challenging platinum market conditions resulted in the carrying value of our South African platinum operations Metals and minerals segment being written down to their estimated recoverable value, resulting in an impairment charge of $146 million being recognised.
The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $53 million, $26 million and $18 million being recognised in our Agricultural products, Energy products and Metals and minerals segments respectively.
2013 Following the continuing low nickel price forecasts, the carrying value of our Murrin Murrin operation Metals and minerals segment was impaired by $454 million, to its estimated recoverable amount of $434 million.
Further to the decision to suspend the mine shaft expansion project, the carrying value of our Cobar copper operations Metals and minerals segment was impaired by $137 million, to its estimated recoverable value of $329 million.
Resulting primarily from an evaluation of below expectation exploration programmes none of which were individually material, further impairment charges of $124 million and $64 million were recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy product segments respectively.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and 3 year business plans both of which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations.
The valuation models use the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 5.5% 13% 2013: 7.5% 12%.
The valuations remain sensitive to price and further deterioration improvements in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairments reversals.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years.
142 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 5.
IMPAIRMENTS continued Investments As noted above, in relation to iron ore prices and the associated development activity, our investment in the El Aouj Joint Venture, Mauritania was impaired by $58 million.
In addition, an impairment charge of $77 million was recognised related to a copper minority investment, Mineracao Caraiba S. A. in Brazil, due to operational challenges.
Post these charges, the estimated recoverable values of these investments amounted to $51 million and $28 million respectively.
The recoverable amounts of the investments were determined using similar valuation techniques and inputs as described above.
Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment In accordance with IFRS 3, following a comprehensive process to identify and determine the fair value of all acquired assets and liabilities inconnection with the Xstrata acquisition see note 25, Glencore recognised goodwill of $13.1 billion of which $5.0 billion was allocated to the metals and coal marketing cash-generating units CGUs see notes 8 and 9 and $8,124 million was allocated to the Xstrata mining operations CGUs.
The goodwill allocated to the metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses was based on the value of expected margin synergies tobe realised by the Groups existing marketing operations as a result of increased product flows from Xstrata, while the residual balance of $8,124 million was allocated to the Xstrata mining operations.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires that CGUs containing goodwill be tested for impairment whenever there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
As at the Acquisition Date the assets and liabilities of the Xstrata mining operations were then recorded at fair value including reserves and resources and expected operational synergies following the finalisation of the extensive valuation process as at the Acquisition Date, there wasanindicator that the goodwill allocated to these operations was impaired.
Accordingly, Glencore completed an impairment test of the Xstrata mining operations based on the results of the final purchase price allocation process see note 25 and determined that the allocated goodwill was impaired and therefore recorded an impairment charge atacquisition of $8,124 million.
The key circumstances that led to the impairment were: The IFRS 3 requirement to measure the consideration paid by reference to Glencores share price at the Acquisition Date and the significant time lag between pricing the acquisition in September 2012 and the Acquisition Date: and The negative broader macro-economic environment facing the extractive industry, particularly around the actual and perceived heightened risks associated with greenfield and large scale expansion projects during the first half of 2013.
The recoverable amount of the Xstrata mining operations was measured based on fair value less cost of disposal determined in accordance with IFRS 13 and was primarily based on discounted cash flow techniques using, where possible, market based forecasts andassumptions and discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 8 13%.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques.
Available for sale instruments Glencore accounts for its interest in United Company Rusal plc UC Rusal as an available for sale investment at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income OCI.
At 31 December 2013 it was determined that previously recognised negative fair value adjustments were of a prolonged nature and thus were reclassified from OCI to the consolidated statement of income as required under IAS 39 see note 10.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, there was a recovery in UC Rusals share price and as such a positive mark-to-market movement of $501 million was recognised in OCI.
143 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 6.
INCOME TAXES Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2014 2013 Current income tax expense 1,447 737 Deferred income tax expense credit 362 483 Total tax expense 1,809 254 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: 2013 1 US$ million 2014 Restated Income Loss before income taxes and attribution 4,253 7,688 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures 638 846 Parent Companys and subsidiaries income loss before income tax and attribution 3,615 8,534 Income tax expense credit calculated at the Swiss income tax rate 542 1,280 Tax effects of: Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 971 605 Non-deductible Xstrata related revaluation and goodwill impairment charges 1,218 Tax exempt income 150 192 Items not tax deductible 488 19 Foreign exchange fluctuations 851 240 Changes in tax rates 20 2 Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences 915 122 Other 2 2 Income tax expense 1,809 254 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 2014 includes $636 million of available capital deductions not previously recognised.
144 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 6.
INCOME TAXES continued Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are attributable to the items detailed in the table below: 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated 2 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,417 1,861 Other 250 244 Total 1,667 2,105 2 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 5,894 5,784 Mark-to-market valuations 87 11 Other 454 903 Total 6,435 6,698 Total Deferred tax net 4,768 4,593 Reconciliation of deferred tax net 1 January 4,593 1,395 Recognised in income for the year 362 483 Recognised in other comprehensive income 86 89 Disposal of business 25 40 Business combination 25 52 4,134 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 156 310 Other 3 192 31 December 4,768 4,593 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31 December 2014, $3,355 million 2013: $2,520 million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards that have been brought to account, of which $1,417 million 2013: $1,861 million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$528 million 2013: $725 million of net deferred tax assets arise in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in either 2014 or 2013.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised.
145 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 1 year 204 200 2 years 49 215 3 years 38 70 Thereafter 2,543 1,449 Unlimited 1,022 1,778 Total 3,856 3,712 As at 31 December 2014, unremitted earnings of $63,245 million 2013: $43,407 million have been retained by subsidiaries and associates for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Freehold land and Plant and Mineral and Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes buildings equipment petroleum rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 1 January 2014 Restated 5,301 47,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715 Business combination 25 37 302 1,634 204 2,177 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 1 28 74 103 Additions 138 6,847 354 245 487 8,071 Disposals 28 348 14 60 3 453 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 83 611 329 1,023 Other movements 204 1,104 379 147 429 55 31 December 2014 5,568 52,840 23,416 1,285 2,330 85,439 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 1 January 2014 Restated 542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 14 14 Depreciation 245 3,699 1,144 224 5,312 Disposals 9 231 58 1 299 Impairments 5 20 257 39 555 871 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 8 83 26 117 Other movements 15 58 136 54 249 94 31 December 2014 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329 Net book value 31 December 2014 4,793 42,435 20,529 604 1,749 70,110 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
146 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 7.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued Freehold Mineral and land and Plant and petroleum Exploration and Deferred US$ million Notes buildings equipment rights evaluation mining costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1 January 2013 2,609 17,349 8,267 407 743 29,375 1 Business combination 25 1,585 25,012 13,279 559 866 41,301 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 131 555 686 Additions 308 8,099 601 28 452 9,488 Disposals 49 756 65 3 873 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 110 1,267 588 1,965 Other movements 1,089 100 102 171 641 75 31 December 2013 Restated 5,301 47,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1 January 2013 397 4,030 1,047 130 148 5,752 Depreciation 200 2,698 863 165 3,926 Disposal of subsidiaries 25 2 9 11 Disposals 25 534 21 26 606 Impairments 556354990 779 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 33 15 72 268 358 31 December 2013 542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482 Net book value 31 December 2013 Restated 4,759 40,947 19,526 693 1,308 67,233 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $9,862 million 2013: $11,149 million and a net book value of $536 million 2013: $412 million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets of $98 million 2013: $94 million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,287 million 2013: $3,905 million and in selling and administrative expenses $25 million 2013: $21 million.
During 2014, $348 million 2013: $310 million of interest was capitalised, $263 million 2013: $231 million within property, plant and equipment and $85 million within assets held for sale 2013: $79 million.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used todetermine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.3% 2013: 3.5%.
147 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Port Licences, Royalty and allocation trademarks acquired offtake US$ million Goodwill rights and software arrangements Total Cost: 1 1 January 2014 Restated 14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490 2 Business combination 1 12 13 Additions 17 11 28 Disposals 26 2 28 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 235 5 3 243 Other movements 52 29 81 31 December 2014 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 1 January 2014 Restated 8,124 57 69 82 8,332 3 Amortisation expense 44 35 57 136 4 Impairment 15 15 Disposals 21 2 23 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 7 1 8 Other movements 14 9 23 31 December 2014 8,124 94 111 146 8,475 Net carrying amount 31 December 2014 5,998 2,275 254 339 8,866 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
3 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Port Licences, Royalty and allocation trademarks acquired offtake 2 2 US$ million Goodwill rights and software arrangements Total Cost: 1 January 2013 962 1,101 151 32 2,246 1 Business combination 13,154 1,998 271 156 15,579 2 Disposal of subsidiaries 43 43 Additions 59 85 144 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 6 473 3 470 Other movements 22 109 165 34 31 December 2013 Restated 14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2013 16 12 11 39 3 Amortisation expense 25 44 54 123 4 Impairment 8,124 8,124 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 16 13 17 46 31 December 2013 Restated 8,124 57 69 82 8,332 Net carrying amount 31 December 2013 Restated 5,998 2,547 257 356 9,158 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
148 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 169 169 Total 5,998 5,998 Grain marketing business Goodwill of $829 million 2013: $829 million was recognised as part of the acquisition of Viterra in 2012 attributable to synergies associated with the grain marketing division CGU.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $13,154 million was recognised in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25 and allocated to the metals and minerals marketing CGU, the coal marketing CGU and the Xstrata mining operations CGUs on a basis consistent with the expected benefits arising from the business combination.
The metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing synergies were fair valued at $5.0 billion based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
The residual balance of the goodwill $8.1 billion was allocated tothe acquired mining operations of Xstrata and subsequently impaired see note 5.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of $169 million 2013: $169 million relates to the Pacorini metals warehousing business CGU.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations.
The rights are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business combination.
This amount is amortised on a unit of production basis through to 2027, the expected mine life.
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive certain products produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time.
These rights are amortised on a straight line basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 15 years.
149 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 9.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage the goodwill as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 Grain marketing business 829 829 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 169 169 Total 5,998 5,998 In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed insubsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD compared against a VIU cash flow projection which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2015 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 11.5 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: the recoverable amount of the metals warehousing business is determined by reference to its VIU which utilises pre-tax cash flow projections based on the approved financial budgets for 3 years which includes key assumptions, such as inventory levels, volumes andoperating costs key assumptions are based on past experience and, where available, observable market data, discounted to present value at a rate of 10%.
The cash flows beyond the 3 year period have been extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.5% per annum, which is the projected inflation rate: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques inboth years.
150 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 10.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Investments in associates and joint ventures 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated 1 January 12,156 18,764 Additions 372 76 Disposals 38 40 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 638 846 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 23 26 Dividends received 1,129 551 Impairments of investments 5 135 Reclassification 396 Loss on revaluation of previously held interest on acquisition 4 1,160 Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary Xstrata 25 15,142 2 Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary Other 212 3 Assumed in business combination 25 9,689 Other movements 37 140 31 December 12,274 12,156 Of which: Investments in associates 9,066 8,675 Investments in joint ventures 3,208 3,481 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 In July 2013, Glencore completed the planned merger of Mutanda and Kansuki, previously an associate of the Group.
The transaction did not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3 and therefore has been accounted for as an acquisition of assets.
3 Comprises primarily investments in Cerrejn Coal mine, Antamina Copper Zinc mine, Collahuasi Copper mine and Lonmin plc.
As at 31 December 2014, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $1,487 million 2013: $1,487 million, using published price quotations a Level 1 fair value measurement was $1,394 million 2013: $1,212 million.
In 2014 and 2013, this predominantly comprises Century Aluminum Century and Lonmin plc Lonmin.
The 2014 carrying value of the Groups investment in Century and Lonmin is $792 million 2013: $734 million and $560 million $604 million respectively.
In May 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of an effective 25.05% economic interest in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Australia for $250 million.
The acquisition was affected through a jointly controlled entity owned 50:50 by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation.
Based on the contractual arrangement between Glencore and Sumitomo, the joint investment constitutes a joint arrangement subject to joint control by virtue of the shareholders agreement as defined under IFRS 11 as unanimous consent is required for all key decisions regarding the relevant activities of the joint investment.
As the investment has been structured through a separate legal entity with both Glencores and Sumitomos risks equating to their net investment in the entity, the investment is deemed to be a joint venture and therefore accounted for using the equity method required by IFRS 11.
151 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total Total material material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures Non-current assets 2,838 4,181 7,019 4,918 4,918 11,937 Current assets 771 952 1,723 1,073 1,073 2,796 Non-current liabilities 959 634 1,593 1,006 1,006 2,599 Current liabilities 217 443 660 451 451 1,111 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 238 228 466 124 124 590 1 Current financial liabilities 9 270 279 2 2 281 1 Non-current financial liabilities 9 9 81 81 90 Net assets 31 December 2014 2,433 4,056 6,489 4,534 4,534 11,023 Glencores ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,494 2,121 3,615 1,213 1,213 4,828 Carrying value 2,305 3,490 5,795 3,208 3,208 9,003 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2014, is set out below.
Total of Total of material material Total of material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2014 Revenue 2,263 2,504 4,767 2,980 2,980 7,747 Loss income for the year 4 1,319 1,315 385 385 1,700 Other comprehensive income 8 8 8 Total comprehensive loss income 4 1,319 1,315 377 377 1,692 Glencores shares of dividends paid 239 343 582 440 440 1,022 The above profit for the year includes thefollowing: Depreciation and amortisation 541 565 1,106 543 543 1,649 Interest income 1 1 1 12 Interest expense 17 2 19 8 8 27 Income tax expense credit 232 114 118 691 691 809 152 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 10.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS continued Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total Total material material Total material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures Non-current assets 2,787 3,902 6,689 4,929 4,929 11,618 Current assets 793 1,419 2,212 1,334 1,334 3,546 Non-current liabilities 1,489 684 2,173 767 767 2,940 Current liabilities 273 565 838 640 640 1,478 The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 198 224 422 92 92 514 1 Current financial liabilities 196 196 4 4 200 1 Non-current financial liabilities 100 100 19 19 119 Net assets 31 December 2013 1,818 4,072 5,890 4,856 4,856 10,746 Glencores ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0% 2 Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,543 2,012 3,555 1,344 1,344 4,899 2 Carrying value 2,149 3,386 5,536 3,481 3,481 9,017 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
2 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the period post the acquisition of Xstrata until 31 December 2013, is set out below.
Total of Total of material material Total of material associates and US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi joint ventures joint ventures 2013 Revenue 1,798 2,631 4,429 2,466 2,466 6,895 Income for the year 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839 Glencores share of dividends paid 84 226 310 207 207 517 The above profit for the year includes thefollowing: Depreciation and amortisation 529 359 888 341 341 1,229 Interest income 1 1 1 Interest expense 12 7 19 6 6 25 Income tax expense 90 555 645 254 254 899 153 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: US$ million 2014 2013 The Groups share of income 26 141 The Groups share of other comprehensive loss income 23 26 The Groups share of total comprehensive income 3 167 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 3,271 3,139 Glencores share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint venture discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint ventures as at 31 December 2014 was $354 million 2013: $463 million.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $310 million 2013: $648 million.
Other investments US$ million 2014 2013 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 895 394 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
149 204 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 223 95 Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 55 Caracal Energy Inc. 15 Other 150 160 577 529 Total 1,472 923 In July 2014, Glencore acquired the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal Energy Inc. see note 25.
154 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 11.
ADVANCES AND LOANS 2013 1 US$ million 2014 Restated 2 Loans to associates 548 909 Rehabilitation trust fund 327 317 1 Other non-current receivables and loans 3,722 2,769 Total 4,597 3,995 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: 2013 1 US$ million 2014 Restated Counterparty Russneft loan 984 984 Rosneft trade advance 109 500 2 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 1,347 995 Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL power advances 232 138 Chad State National Oil Company 426 Other 624 152 Total 3,722 2,769 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The weighted average interest rate of the advances and loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
In December 2013, an impairment charge of $300 million was recognised following non-performance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing of product supply and a recoverable value provision was recorded in respect of other advances and loans see note 5.
Russneft loans In December 2013, OAO Russneft Russneft refinanced part of its debt and repaid Glencore $1.0 billion, which followed earlier repayments of $88 million and $135 million respectively, amounting to a total of $1,223 million received by Glencore in 2013.
As part of the 2013 refinancing, Glencore and Russneft agreed to amend the terms of the outstanding loan balance, requiring Glencore to convert aminimum of $900 million of the outstanding debt into an equity stake in Russneft during 2014, subject to finalisation of due diligence and valuation.
Until conversion, interest and repayment terms remain materially unchanged.
During 2014, no agreement was reached onthe debt to equity conversion and an extension to the existing conversion term was agreed, which did not result in a material change to the existing conversion terms.
Negotiations regarding a potential conversion will continue through 2015.
The outstanding loan balance and or any equity resulting from the conversion to shares in Russneft has been pledged as a guarantee for a loan between Russneft and athird party bank.
Rosneft trade advance In March 2013, Glencore signed a long-term crude and oil products supply contract with Russian oil producer OJSC Neftyanaya Companiya Rosneft Rosneft while simultaneously participating with $500 million in a large financing facility to Rosneft.
In March 2014, part of the prepayment was sold, at its carrying value, to a third party bank for $350 million.
The remaining prepayment is to be repaid through future deliveries of oil over 3 years starting March 2015.
Of the amount advanced, $109 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $41 million is due within 12 months and as such is included within Accounts receivable.
SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations will contribute $306 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2017.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2017.
The loans will be repaid via discounts on future electricity purchases by Katanga and Mutanda upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company At 31 December 2014, Glencore had advanced a net $512 million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through future oil deliveries over 4 years.
The advance is net of $1,023 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $426 million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $86 million is due within 12 months and as such is included within Accounts receivable.
155 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 12.
INVENTORIES US$ million 2014 2013 Production inventories 4,938 6,108 Marketing inventories 19,498 16,645 Total 24,436 22,753 Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts and work in process.
Marketing inventories are saleable commodities held primarily by the marketing entities as well as finished goods and certain other readily saleable materials held by the industrial assets.
Marketing inventories of $16,297 million 2013: $12,997 million are carried at fair value less costs of disposal.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 28 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of marketing inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 20.
As at 31 December 2014, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $1,707 million 2013: $2,246 million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,558 million 2013: $1,829 million.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE US$ million 2014 2013 1 Trade receivables 14,466 18,029 1 Trade advances and deposits 4,596 3,516 1 Associated companies 359 452 Other receivables 2,035 2,539 Total 21,456 24,536 1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 27 days 2013: 29 days.
As at 31 December 2014, 8% 2013: 8% of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 6% 2013: 5% were greater than 60 days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below: US$ million 2014 2013 1January 252 212 Released during the year 62 46 Charged during the year 168 125 Utilised during the year 65 39 31 December 293 252 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
In each case, the receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2014, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $1,733 million 2013: $4,034 million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,283 million 2013: $3,200 million.
156 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 14.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS US$ million 2014 2013 Bank and cash on hand 2,093 2,341 Deposits and treasury bills 731 508 Total 2,824 2,849 As at 31 December 2014, $17 million 2013: $18 million was restricted.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE In accordance with the Merger Remedy Commitments made to the Ministry of Commerce of the Peoples Republic of China MOFCOM in respect of the Xstrata acquisition, Glencore commenced a process to sell its entire interest in the Las Bambas copper mine project in Peru.
As a result, assets of $4,366 million restated and liabilities of $539 million restated acquired in the Xstrata acquisition see note 25 were classified as held for sale within the metals and minerals segment.
Subsequent to the acquisition date, further capital expenditure was incurred and liabilities settled as they fell due, such that the assets held for sale decreased to $5,636 million and liabilities held for sale increased to $501 million as at 31 December 2013 and were classified as non-recurring Level 2 fair value measurements in accordance with IFRS 13.
In April 2014, Glencore reached an agreement to sell its entire interest in Las Bambas for cash consideration of $5.85 billion, plus reimbursement for all capital expenditure and other costs incurred in developing the mine in the period from 1 January 2014 to completion of the sale.
On 31 July 2014, the sale completed with Glencore receiving proceeds, net of tax, of approximately $6.5 billion, which resulted in a net gain of $184 million see note 3.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$ million US$ million Authorised: 31 December 2014 and 2013 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2013 Ordinary shares 7,099,456 71 26,688 2 May 2013 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata 6,163,949 62 30,073 27 December 2013 Ordinary shares issued to satisfy employee share awards see note 19 15,000 78 Distributions paid see note 18 2,062 31 December 2013 Ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 54,777 1 January 2014 13,278,405 133 54,777 Distributions paid see note 18 2,244 31 December 2014 Ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 52,533 Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% of the issued and outstanding equity of Xstrata see note 25 that the Group did not previously own, through the issuance of 6,163,949,435 new ordinary shares of the Company, of which 212,743,594 shares were issued to the Orbis Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of certain stock and option awards held by Xstrata employees.
Own shares Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Companys share buyback programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Orbis Trust the Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of the Xstrata acquisition see note 19.
The Trust also coordinates the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares are acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trustee is permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
The Trust has waived the right to receive distributions from the shares that it holds.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
As at 31 December 2014, 293,740,462 shares 2013: 156,789,593 shares, equivalent to 2.2% 2013: 1.2% of the issued share capital were held ata cost of $1,493 million 2013: $767 million and market value of $1,368 million 2013: $813 million.
157 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total Number Share Number Share Number Share of shares premium of shares premium of shares premium thousand US$ million thousand US$ million thousand US$ million Own shares: 1 January 2013 Own shares assumed on acquisition of Xstrata 212,744 1,041 212,744 1,041 Own shares purchased during the year 3,087 13 3,087 13 Own shares disposed during the year 59,041 287 59,041 287 31 December 2013 156,790 767 156,790 767 1 January 2014 156,790 767 156,790 767 Own shares purchased during the year 143,278 758 7,000 37 150,278 795 Own shares disposed during the year 13,328 69 13,328 69 31 December 2014 143,278 758 150,462 735 293,740 1,493 Other reserves Equity portion Net ownership Translation of Convertible Cash flow Net unrealised changes in US$ million adjustment bonds hedge reserve gain loss subsidiaries Other reserves Total 1 January 2013 191 89 70 706 10 868 Exchange loss on translation offoreign operations 1,126 1,126 Loss on cash flow hedges, netof tax 287 287 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 1 1 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 138 138 31 December 2013 1,317 89 356 844 10 2,418 1 January 2014 1,317 89 356 844 10 2,418 Exchange loss on translation offoreign operations 846 846 Gain on cash flow hedges, net of tax 415 415 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 1 1 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 501 501 Equity portion of repaid convertible bond 89 89 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 29 29 31 December 2014 2,163 58 501 815 10 2,409 158 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 17.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated Profit loss attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 2,308 8,046 2 Interest in respect of convertible bonds Profit loss attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 2,308 8,046 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 13,098,766 11,093,184 Effect of dilution: Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 52,579 2 Convertible bonds thousand 20 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 13,151,345 11,093,184 Basic earnings loss per share US$ 0.18 0.73 Diluted earnings loss per share US$ 0.18 0.73 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 In 2014, the convertible bonds were repaid upon maturity and or repurchased.
In 2013 the convertible bonds were anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2 2013 as issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: Headline earnings: 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated Profit loss attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 2,308 8,046 Loss on acquisitions no tax and non-controlling interest impact 10 1,160 Net gain loss on disposals no non-controlling interest impact 790 25 Net loss gain on disposals tax 550 6 Impairments 5 1,101 9,730 Impairments non-controlling interest 99 17 Impairments tax 270 245 Headline earnings for the year 2,800 2,601 Headline earnings per share US$ 0.21 0.23 Diluted headline earnings per share US$ 0.21 0.23 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
DISTRIBUTIONS US$ million 2014 2013 Paid during the year: Final distribution for 2013 $0.111 per ordinary share 2012: $0.1035 per ordinary share 1,457 1,355 Interim distribution for 2014 $0.06 per ordinary share 2013: $0.054 per ordinary share 787 707 Total 2,244 2,062 The proposed final distribution of $12 cents per ordinary share amounting to $1,558 million, excluding any distribution on own shares, andthe proposed distribution in specie of the Groups 23.9% stake in Lonmin are subject to approval by shareholders attheAnnual General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Distributions declared in respect ofthe year ended 31 December 2014 will be paid in May 2015.
The 2014 interim distribution was paid on 19 September 2014.
159 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 19.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Number of Number of awards awards Number of Fair value at outstanding outstanding Expense Expense awards granted grant date 2014 2013 recognised 2014 recognised 2013 thousand US$ million thousand thousand US$ million US$ million Deferred Bonus Plan 2012 Series 3,442 20 1,680 2013 Series 4,958 24 3,717 4,958 24 2014 Series 3,633 20 3,633 20 Performance Share Plan 2012 Series 3,375 18 1,049 2,235 4 10 2013 Series 11,065 60 7,472 5,295 36 3 2014 Series 15,611 86 15,611 10 Total 31,482 14,168 70 37 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of 1 to 2 years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service conditions however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including distributions paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated expense is recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular expense for performance bonuses.
Performance share plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to 1 ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in 3 or 5 equal tranches on 30 June or 31 December of the years following the year of grant.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting.
Share-based awards assumed upon acquisition of Xstrata Total options Weighted outstanding average exercise thousands price GBP 1 January 2013 Assumed in business combination 212,744 2.83 Forfeited 3,807 3.76 1 Exercised 53,776 0.13 31 December 2013 155,161 1 January 2014 155,161 3.74 Forfeited Lapsed 42 4.93 Exercised 6,557 1.71 31 December 2014 148,562 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share-based awards was GBP3.42 2013: GBP3.34.
The completion of the acquisition of Xstrata by Glencore triggered the change in control vesting criteria for all options and free shares of the former Xstrata award plans, comprising a total of 212,743,594 underlying shares, which, in accordance with the acquisition agreement, were replaced with equivalent Glencore instruments.
These instruments had a fair value of $383 million and were included in the consideration paid for the acquisition see note 25.
160 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 19.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued The options were valued at a weighted average of $1.53 per option determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions on a weighted average basis: share price of $4.89, exercise price of $5.72, option life of 6.9 years, dividend yield of 4%, risk free interest rate of 1.65% and an expected volatility of 32% based on the historical volatility of Glencore and Xstrata shares prior to the acquisition.
Free share units were valued at $4.89 per unit based on Glencores share price at the date of acquisition.
As at December 31, 2014, a total of 148,561,546 options 2013: 155,161,370 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 2013: GBPnil to GBP3.914 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.825 2013: GBP3.741.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2015 to February 2022 2013: March 2014 to March 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 3.4 years 2013: 6.2 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
BORROWINGS 2013 1 US$ million Notes 2014 Restated Non-current borrowings Capital market notes 30,877 30,900 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 7,933 5,702 Finance lease obligations 30 425 344 Other bank loans 1,453 1,766 Total non-current borrowings 40,688 38,712 Current borrowings Committed secured inventory receivables facilities 12 13 435 1,353 Uncommitted secured inventory receivables facilities 12 13 2,406 3,676 Other committed and uncommitted secured facilities 890 590 Convertible bonds 2,236 U. S. commercial paper 813 1,645 Capital market notes 3,504 1,750 Finance lease obligations 30 51 49 2 Other bank loans 3,906 5,162 Total current borrowings 12,005 16,461 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facility In June 2014, Glencore signed new revolving credit facilities for a total amount of $15.3 billion.
These facilities refinanced earlier $12,990 million of one-year and three-year revolving credit facilities with the three-year tranche repaid and cancelled and amended extended the $4,350 million five-year revolving credit facility signed in June 2013.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 50 to 90 basis points per annum.
The new and amended facilities comprise: an $8.7 billion 12 month revolving credit facility with a 12 month term-out option and 12-month extension option: and a $6.6 billion 5 year revolving credit facility with two 12 month extension options.
Convertible bonds In 2014, Glencore repaid and or purchased and subsequently cancelled convertible bonds with a nominal value of $2,295 million for consideration of $2,365 million, resulting in a premium cost of $70 million, which is recognised within other expenses see note 4.
U. S. commercial paper Glencore has in place a standalone U. S. commercial paper programme for $4,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&Ps and Moodys rating agencies.
The notes issued under this programme carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 397daysfrom the date of issue.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 35 to 70 basis points per annum.
BORROWINGS continued 2014 Bond issuances AUD bonds In September 2014, Glencore issued 5 year AUD 500 million, 4.50% fixed coupon bonds.
Euro bonds In April 2014, Glencore issued in two tranches EUR 1.1 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 7 year EUR 600 million, 2.750% fixed coupon bonds: and 12 year EUR 500 million, 3.750% fixed coupon bonds.
In September 2014, Glencore issued EUR 700 million, 1.625% fixed coupon bonds due January 2022.
Swiss Franc bonds In December 2014, Glencore issued 6 year CHF 500 million, 1.25% fixed coupon bonds.
US$ bonds In April 2014, Glencore issued in 2 tranches $2 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 5 year $1,000 million, 3.125% fixed coupon bonds: and 10 year $1,000 million, 4.625% fixed coupon bonds.
In May 2014, Glencore issued 4 year $200 million, Libor plus 1.20% coupon notes.
Committed secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2014 2013 US$ LIBOR Syndicated metals inventory receivables facility Jan Mar 2015 503 120 bps 435 US$ LIBOR Oil receivables facility May Aug 2014 1,250 120 bps 1,250 US$ LIBOR Secured facilities on various equity stakes July 2015 750 80 bps 540 US$ LIBOR Equipment financing April 2016 150 2.25% margin 50 US$ JPY LIBOR Metals receivables facilities Jan 2014 197 80 200 bps 103 Total 435 1,943 21.
DEFERRED INCOME Unfavourable Total 1 US$ million Notes contracts Prepayment Restated 1 January 2013 554 163 717 1 Assumed in business combination 25 1,099 7 1,106 Utilised in the year 156 8 164 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 177 177 31 December 2013 1,320 162 1,482 Current 121 24 145 Non-current 1,199 138 1,337 1 January 2014 1,320 162 1,482 Utilised in the year 122 27 149 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 60 60 31 December 2014 1,138 135 1,273 Current 129 24 153 Non-current 1,009 111 1,120 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
163 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Unfavourable contracts In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2045 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayment In 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver, dependant on mine production, up to 4.75 million ounces per year of silver, a by-product from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received an upfront payment of $285 million.
The outstanding balance represents the remaining portion of the upfront payment, which is released to revenue at a rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quantities delivered.
As at 31 December 2014, 22.7 million ounces 2013: 19.3 million ounces have been delivered.
PROVISIONS Post retirement benefits Employee Rehabilitation Onerous 1 US$ million Notes note 23 entitlements costs contracts Other Total 1 January 2013 284 147 951 400 1,782 Provision utilised in the year 528 108 116 94 286 1,132 Accretion in the year 2 37 14 53 2 Assumed in business combination 25 1,271 266 3,065 2,007 972 7,581 Additional provision in the year 60 156 3 57 276 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 47 4 130 8 173 31 December 2013 Restated 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387 Current 25 105 193 323 Non-current 980 363 3,938 1,825 958 8,064 1 January 2014 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387 Provision utilised in the year 285 125 369 229 243 1,251 Accretion in the year 1819 190 Assumed in business combination 25 10 4 14 Additional provision in the year 455 72 102 36 283 948 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 80 2 51 20 4 157 31 December 2014 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131 Current 86 129 361 576 Non-current 1,070 308 3,750 1,601 826 7,555 1 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
Employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from 2 to in excess of 50 years with the majority of the costs expected to be incurred in the final years of the underlying operations.
Onerous contracts Upon the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25, Glencore recognised a liability related to assumed contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision will be released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
164 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 23.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, were $6,011 million and $5,012 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $5,083 million 2013: $4,157 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
The plans provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on the employees years of service.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $235 million in 2014 2013: $145 million.
Defined benefit plans The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US.
Approximately 80% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Contributions to the Canadian plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal taxation rules.
Glencore also operates post-employment medical benefit plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
The movement in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets of pension plans over the year is as follows: Present value of defined benefit Fair value of Post retirement US$ million obligation plan assets benefits 1 January 2014 4,643 3,663 980 Current service cost 81 81 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 Settlement 40 26 14 Interest expense income 200 160 40 Total expense income recognised in consolidated statement of income 240 134 106 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 254 254 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 89 89 Loss from change in financial assumptions 448 448 Loss from actuarial experience 22 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses 31 31 Actuarial losses gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome 508 254 254 Employer contributions 190 190 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the Company 39 39 Benefits paid from plan assets 248 248 Net cash outflow inflow 285 95 190 Exchange differences 382 302 80 Other 382 302 80 31 December 2014 4,724 3,654 1,070 165 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Present value of defined benefit Fair value of Post retirement US$ million Note obligation plan assets benefits 1 January 2013 631 347 284 Current service cost 75 75 Past service cost plan amendments 1 1 Past service cost curtailment 4 4 Interest expense income 142 101 41 Total expense income recognised in consolidated statement of income 212 101 111 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 100 100 Loss from change in demographic assumptions 20 20 Gain from change in financial assumptions 441 441 Loss from actuarial experience 10 10 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses 48 48 Actuarial gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 363 100 463 Employer contributions 176 176 Employee contributions 2 2 Benefits paid directly by the Company 26 26 Benefits paid from plan assets 176 176 Net cash outflow inflow 200 24 176 Assumed in business combinations 22 4,562 3,291 1,271 Exchange differences 199 152 47 Other 4,363 3,139 1,224 31 December 2013 4,643 3,663 980 The Group expects to make a contribution of $153 million to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.
The present value of defined benefit obligations accrued to date in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the balance sheet and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Groups defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2014 does not exceed $205 million 2013: $189 million.
2014 US$ million Canada Other Total Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,739 985 4,724 of which: amounts owing to active members 889 494 1,383 of which: amounts owing to not active members 142 217 359 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,708 274 2,982 Fair value of plan assets 3,026 628 3,654 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 713 357 1,070 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 13 166 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 23.
PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued 2013 US$ million Canada Other Total Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,749 894 4,643 of which: amounts owing to active members 1,028 500 1,528 of which: amounts owing to not active members 100 186 286 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,621 208 2,829 Fair value of plan assets 3,034 629 3,663 Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2013 715 265 980 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 18 13 The actual return on plan assets amounted to $112 million 2013: $50 million.
The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2014 2013 Securities quoted in an active market Cash and short-term investments 80 91 Fixed income 2,056 1,900 Equities 1,379 1,496 Other 139 176 Total 3,654 3,663 1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $60 million 2013: $50 million.
The fair value of plan assets includes negligible amounts of Glencores own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term.
Glencore believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, inmost cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases willtherefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
167 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2014 2013 Discount rate 3.8% 4.6% Future salary increases 2.9% 3.1% Future pension increases 0.4% 0.4% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at 31 December 2014, these tables imply expected future lifetimes, for employees aged 65, 16 to 24 years for males 2013: 16 to 24 and 20 to 26 years for females 2013: 20 to 26.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2014 is set out below.
Increase decrease Increase decrease Increase decrease inpensionobligation inpensionobligation inpensionobligation US$ million Canada Other Total Discount rate Increase by 100 basis points 399 150 549 Decrease by 100 basis points 458 188 646 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 16 31 47 Decrease by 100 basis points 17 32 49 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 733 40 Decrease by 100 basis points 6 32 38 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by 1 year 82 18 100 24.
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE US$ million 2014 2013 Trade payables 22,896 21,815 Trade advances from buyers 1,479 640 Associated companies 473 648 Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,033 2,938 Total 26,881 26,041 168 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES 2014 Acquisitions In 2014, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Caracal Energy Inc Caracal, Zhairemsky GOK JSC Zhairemsky and other immaterial entities.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition dates detailed below: US$ million Caracal Zhairemsky Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1,799 351 27 2,177 Intangible assets 1 12 13 1 1 1 Advances and loans Deferred tax assets 1 1 1,801 351 40 2,192 Current assets Inventories 98 17 1 Accounts receivable 86 8 20 114 Cash and cash equivalents 31 17 48 117 34 28 179 2 Non-controlling interest 8 8 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 52 52 Other financial liabilities 3 5 8 Provisions 1 13 14 1 68 5 74 Current liabilities Borrowings 161 161 Accounts payable 149 9 53 211 310 9 53 372 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,607 308 2 1,917 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 77 77 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 31 17 48 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,499 291 2 1,792 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
169 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Caracal On 8 July 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal, an oil and gas exploration and development company with operations in the Republic of Chad, Africa, for a total consideration of $1,607 million.
This increased Glencores ownership from 13.2% to 100% and provides Glencore the ability to exercise control over Caracal.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $56 million and additional attributable loss of $25 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $101 million and $80 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
The acquisition of Caracal adds further value and expertise to Glencores growing oil business in Africa, with the enlarged portfolio allowing Glencore to take further advantage of opportunities across the African oil sector, as they arise.
Zhairemsky On 11 December 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Zhairemsky GOK JSC, located in Kazakhstan, for cash consideration of $308 million.
The acquisition enhances and complements Glencores existing operations in Kazakhstan, including an expectation that the additional zinc lead resources will significantly increase Kazzincs weighted average own-source life of mine.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78 million andadditional attributable loss of $2 million.
From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $6 million and $1 million of revenue and attributable loss, respectively.
Other Other comprises primarily the acquisition of an additional 16.99% interest in Energia Austral, increasing Glencores ultimate ownership to65.99%.
From the date of acquisition, 1 January 2014, the operations contributed $25 million and $15 million to Glencores revenue and attributable income, respectively.
2014 Disposals In 2014, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Las Bambas that was acquired as part of the Xstrata business combination in May2013.
Other consists primarily of the disposal of Frieda River, a copper project in Papua New Guinea.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: US$ million Las Bambas Other Total Property, plant and equipment 89 89 Accounts receivable 9 9 Assets held for sale 6,884 6,884 Accounts payable 2 2 Liabilities held for sale 604 604 Non-controlling interest 16 16 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 6,280 80 6,360 Cash and cash equivalents received 6,449 33 6,482 Future consideration receivable 15 34 49 Total consideration 6,464 67 6,531 Net gain loss on disposal 184 13 171 170 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 25.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued 2013 Acquisitions In 2013, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Xstrata and other immaterial entities.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below: Xstrata provisional Fair value fair values adjustments to Total as reported at the provisional Xstrata Other Total US$ million 31 December 2013 allocation fair values fair values fair values Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 41,381 274 41,107 194 41,301 Intangible assets 2,314 105 2,419 6 2,425 Investments in associates and joint ventures 10,240 551 9,689 9,689 1 Advances and loans 1,163 100 1,063 1,063 Deferred tax asset 253 253 253 55,351 820 54,531 200 54,731 Current assets Inventories 6,068 6,068 47 6,115 1 Accounts receivable 3,693 3,693 38 3,731 Other financial assets 518 518 518 Cash and cash equivalents 1,684 1,684 1 1,685 Assets held for sale 3,616 750 4,366 4,366 15,579 750 16,329 86 16,415 Non-controlling interest 924 176 1,100 9 1,109 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 17,587 12 17,575 4 17,579 Deferred income 973 60 1,033 1,033 Deferred tax liabilities 4,270 85 4,355 32 4,387 Other financial liabilities 325 325 9 334 Provisions 7,312 19 7,293 14 7,307 30,467 114 30,581 59 30,640 Current liabilities Borrowings 1,726 1,726 17 1,743 Accounts payable 4,981 4,981 30 5,011 Deferred income 73 73 73 Provisions 215 59 274 274 Other financial liabilities 91 91 91 Liabilities held for sale 314 225 539 539 7,400 284 7,684 47 7,731 Total fair value of net assets acquired 32,139 644 31,495 171 31,666 Goodwill arising on acquisition 12,480 644 13,124 30 13,154 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 15,142 15,142 15,142 Less: Fair value of ordinary shares issued 29,094 29,094 29,094 Less: Fair value of share-based awards 383 383 383 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 1,684 1,684 1 1,685 Acquisition related costs 275 275 275 Net cash received from used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,409 1,409 200 1,209 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
3 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
171 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Xstrata On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% which it did not previously own of the issued and outstanding equity of Xstrata, a leading global diversified mining group, for consideration of $29.5 billion.
The acquisition was completed through an all share exchange which gave Xstrata shareholders 3.05 Glencore shares for every Xstrata share, valuing Xstratas equity at approximately $44.6 billion.
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised.
The final fair value adjustments to the provisionally reported values primarily relate to adjustments to property, plant and equipment and investments in associates and joint ventures resulting from revisions to assumptions that existed at the acquisition date regarding mine plans, ramp-up schedules, expected processing capacity and classification of acquired joint arrangements.
Additionally, the Las Bambas assets and liabilities held for sale were reassessed to reflect the fair value less cost of disposal, resulting from finalisation of the sales process.
The acquisition of Xstrata creates a unique global natural resources group, well positioned to seize opportunities in a world where trends continue to evolve towards a new global map, reflecting the degree to which changes are unfolding relating to where natural resources are consumed and supplied, especially as a result of demand from and emerging supply growth in developing economies.
If the acquisition had been effective 1 January 2013, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $9,443 million and an increase in attributable income of $259 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operations contributed $16,769 million and $1,485 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
Other Other acquisitions primarily consist of the acquisition of an 89.5% controlling interest in Orion Minerals LLC, an entity holding 2 operations in northern Kazakhstan, for cash consideration of $175 million.
If the other acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2013, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $4 million and additional attributable income of $1 million.
From the date of acquisition, the other acquisitions contributed $51 million and $7 million to Glencores revenue and attributable income, respectively.
2013 Disposals In 2013, Glencore disposed of controlling interests in various businesses that were acquired as part of the Viterra business combination in December 2012.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: Dakota Growers Joe White US$ million Pasta Company Maltings Total Property, plant and equipment 320 355 675 Intangible assets 42 1 43 Inventories 35 23 58 Accounts receivable 24 38 62 Cash and cash equivalents 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 40 40 Accounts payable 21 33 54 Financial liabilities 3 3 Total carrying value of net assets disposed 363 381 744 Cash and cash equivalents received 366 381 747 Less: cash and cash equivalent disposed 3 3 Total consideration received 363 381 744 Gain loss on disposal 26.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets andseeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
172 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 26.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Paramount in meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Glencores current credit ratings are Baa2 stable from Moodys and BBB stable from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives The Company intends to return excess capital to its shareholders by pursuing a progressive distribution policy with the intention of maintaining or increasing its total ordinary distribution each year, supplemented through other capital management initiatives, including share buy-backs, as and when appropriate.
Distributions are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually with the half-year results and the preliminary full-year results.
Interim distributions are expected to represent approximately one-third of the total distribution for any year.
Distributions will be declared and paid in US dollars, although Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distributions in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the JSE will receive their distributions in South African Rand.
Commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100 million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
The consolidated VaR limit of $100 million wasnot exceeded during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history for a one day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Market risk VaR one day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 Year-end position 39 35 Average during the year 36 32 High during the year 65 63 Low during the year 16 20 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
173 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead, coal, iron ore, oilnatural gas and main risks in the agricultural products business segment grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used tomonitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2014 would decrease increase by $95 million 2013: $105 million.
Currency risk The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the US dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into USdollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the USDollar, Swiss franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian peso and South African rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss franc, Sterling and Australian dollar denominated bonds see note 20.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average 1 US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2014 15,289 15 1,727 2019 Cross currency swap agreements 2013 16,658 167 2018 1 Refer to note 20 for details.
Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
174 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 26.
FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 2.5% 2013: 2.5% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 3.5% of its revenues over the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: 3%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk including performance risk see below, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets see note 27.
Performance risk Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the future, tophysically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond 3 months, with the main exceptions being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter-term fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2013: $3 billion.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
As at 31 December 2014, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $9,409 million 2013: $12,878 million.
175 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 27.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value of financial instruments The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate the fair values with the exception of $52,693 million 2013: $55,173 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2014 was $53,285 million 31 December 2013: $56,723 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
2014 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 895 577 1,472 Advances and loans 4,597 4,597 Accounts receivable 21,456 21,456 Other financial assets see note 28 4,036 4,036 4 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,855 2,855 Total financial assets 26,053 895 7,468 34,416 Liabilities Borrowings 52,693 52,693 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 28 980 980 Accounts payable 26,881 26,881 Other financial liabilities see note 28 3,956 3,956 Total financial liabilities 79,574 4,936 84,510 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of $1,354 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $118 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
176 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 27.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued 2013 Carrying Available Total 1 2 3 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Restated Assets 4 Other investments 394 529 923 Advances and loans 3,995 3,995 Accounts receivable 24,536 24,536 Other financial assets see note 28 2,904 2,904 5 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,885 2,885 Total financial assets 28,531 394 6,318 35,243 Liabilities Borrowings 55,173 55,173 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 28 1,044 1,044 Accounts payable 26,041 26,041 Other financial liabilities see note 28 2,366 2,366 Total financial liabilities 81,214 3,410 84,624 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
4 Other investments of $772 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $151 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost.
5 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 were as follows: Total as presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated not subject statement of 2014 Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting financial US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position Derivative assets 19,282 17,115 2,167 483 497 1,187 1,869 4,036 Derivative liabilities 19,022 17,115 1,906 483 924 499 2,050 3,956 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Total as presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated not subject statement of 2013 Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting financial US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position Derivative assets 4,001 2,905 1,096 237 262 597 1,808 2,904 Derivative liabilities 3,624 2,905 719 237 285 197 1,647 2,366 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure isgiven to the party or bankruptcy.
177 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the measurement date: or Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly: or Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than 1 year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than 1 year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes and applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value ofcertain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Refer to notes 12 and 27 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Other financial assets 2014 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 1,008 183 1,191 Options 21 27 1 49 Swaps 133 771 904 Physical forwards 21 1,101 339 1,461 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 158 158 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 2 271 273 Total 1,185 2,511 340 4,036 2013 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 444 261 705 Options 26 2 28 Swaps 65 94 159 Physical forwards 701 481 1,182 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 519 519 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 41 270 311 Total 576 1,847 481 2,904 178 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Other financial liabilities 2014 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 5808 588 Options 199 12 40 251 Swaps 118 98 216 Physical forwards 4 893 264 1,161 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 1,281 1,281 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 459 459 Current other financial liabilities 901 2,751 304 3,956 Non-current other financial liabilities Non-discretionary dividend obligation 295 295 Put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-current other financial liabilities 980 980 Total 901 2,751 1,284 4,936 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
2 A p ut option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda is exercisable in 2 equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018.
The exercise price of the put option is subject to the fair value of Mutanda at the date of exercise, see note 33.
2013 US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 542 84 626 Options 15 4 31 50 Swaps 27 72 99 Physical forwards 9572 266 847 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 512 512 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 60 172 232 Current other financial liabilities 653 1,416 297 2,366 Non-current other financial liabilities Non-discretionary dividend obligation 359 359 Put option over non-controlling interest 685 685 Non-current other financial liabilities 1,044 1,044 Total 653 1,416 1,341 3,410 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
179 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Loans and Total US$ million Notes forwards Options other Level 3 1 January 2013 96 456 360 Business combination 25 13 359 372 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 220 30 190 Put option over non-controlling interest 266 266 Realised 88 36 52 31 December 2013 215 716 359 860 1 January 2014 Business combination 215 716 359 860 Total loss recognised in cost of goods sold 34 39 73 Put option over non-controlling interest 64 64 Realised 106 31 75 31 December 2014 75 724 295 944 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The following table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2014 2013 Futures Level 1 Assets 1,008 444 Liabilities 580 542 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Futures Level 2 Assets 183 261 Liabilities 8 84 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 1 Assets 21 26 Liabilities 199 15 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 27 2 Liabilities 12 4 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None 180 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 28.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS continued Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2014 2013 Options Level 3 Assets 1 Liabilities 40 31 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including: Volatility: and Credit risk.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials move in symmetry with each other, e. g. a decrease in volatility leads to a decrease in credit risk, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
Swaps Level 1 Assets 133 65 Liabilities 118 72 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 771 94 Liabilities 98 72 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 1 Assets 21 Liabilities 4 9 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 1,101 701 Liabilities 893 572 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of nonperformance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 339 481 Liabilities 264 266 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply and demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% 50% of the overall value of the instruments.
These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase decrease in one input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
181 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2014 2013 Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 158 519 Liabilities 1,281 512 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 1 Assets 2 297 Liabilities 191 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 271 14 Liabilities 459 41 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 295 359 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: and Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
Significant unobservable inputs: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying miningoperation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease tothe value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associatedincreases decreases inthe assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
There are noreasonable changes in assumptions which would result in a material change to the fair value of the underlying liability.
Put option over non-controlling interest Level 3 Assets Liabilities 685 685 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: and Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
182 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 29.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION US$ million 2014 2013 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 4 7 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 20 24 Audit-related assurance services 5 5 Total audit and related assurance fees 29 36 Corporate finance services 1 1 Taxation compliance services 2 2 Other taxation advisory services 2 6 Other assurance services 1 1 Other services 2 3 Total non-audit-fees 8 13 Total professional fees 37 49 1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listed subsidiaries.
FUTURE COMMITMENTS Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31 December 2014, $2,497 million 2013: $2,817 million, of which 80% 2013: 74% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, asignificant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31 December 2014, $255 million 2013:$623 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 23% 2013: 55% are for commitments to be settled overthe next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
As at 31 December 2014, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $1,728 million 2013: $1,433 million, of which $540 million 2013: $578 million are with associated companies.
37% 2013: 55% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next 2 years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
As at 31 December 2014, $16,307 million 2013: $13,886 million of such commitments have been issued on behalf ofGlencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively $279 million and $203 million for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Future net minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2014 2013 Within 1 year 142 105 Between 2 and 5 years 275 216 After 5 years 255 114 Total 672 435 183 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted Present value of minimumleasepayments minimumleasepayments US$ million 2014 2013 2014 2013 Within 1 year 76 70 51 49 Between 1 and 5 years 236 276 173 188 After 5 years 280 201 252 156 Total minimum lease payments 592 547 476 393 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 116 154 Present value of minimum lease payments 476 393 476 393 Future development and related commitments On 12 December 2014, Glencore agreed to acquire Prokon Pflanzenl GmbH, a German producer of biodiesel and rapeseed oil for a consideration of $134 million.
The acquisition is subject to standard regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2015.
On 19 December 2014, Glencore agreed to acquire a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain export terminal in northern Brazil for a consideration of $115 million.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2014 was $nil 2013: $nil.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31 December 2014 and 2013 it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Tax audits Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved.
The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties including Xstrata preacquisition and Century, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 11, 13, and 24.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In 2014, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted to $1,200 million 2013: $1,924 million and $3,178 million 2013: $5,008 million respectively.
184 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 32.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued Remuneration of key management personnel Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $8 million 2013: $7 million.
There were no other long-term benefits orshare-based payments provided to key management personnel 2013: $nil.
Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 99.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: 2013 1 US$ million 2014 Restated Kazzinc 1,404 1,436 Optimum 271 326 Alumbrera 182 279 Mutanda 2 105 2 Other 1,079 1,432 Total 2,938 3,368 1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata see note 25.
2 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda 31 December 2014 Non-current assets 5,085 1,755 458 4,747 Current assets 1,118 77 373 711 Total assets 6,203 1,832 831 5,458 Non-current liabilities 1,168 628 299 2,247 Current liabilities 402 346 167 322 Total liabilities 1,570 974 466 2,569 Net assets 4,633 858 365 2,889 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,229 587 183 2,887 Non-controlling interests 1,404 271 182 2 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0% 2014 Revenue 2,517 592 1,037 1,604 Expenses 2,552 653 943 1,259 Profit for the year 35 61 94 345 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 25 41 47 238 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 10 20 47 107 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 35 61 94 345 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 10 144 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 232 47 235 484 Net cash outflow from investing activities 714 100 59 241 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 460 141 166 128 Total net cash outflow inflow 22 6 10 115 185 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda 31 December 2013 Non-current assets 4,841 1,927 475 4,694 Current assets 1,106 87 641 586 Total assets 5,947 2,014 1,116 5,280 Non-current liabilities 814 827 295 3,790 Current liabilities 408 180 263 977 Total liabilities 1,222 1,007 558 4,767 Net assets 4,725 1,007 558 513 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,289 681 279 618 Non-controlling interests 1,436 326 279 105 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0% 2013 Revenue 2,587 751 718 1,204 Expenses 2,437 706 705 1,011 Profit for the year 150 45 13 193 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 103 30 7 142 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 47 15 6 51 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 150 45 13 193 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 142 Net cash inflow from operating activities 451 74 93 68 Net cash outflow from investing activities 425 122 46 185 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 43 46 441 96 Total net cash outflow 17 2 394 21 Mutanda In July 2013, Glencore completed the merger between Mutanda and Kansuki which was accounted for as an asset acquisition as the acquired assets and liabilities of Kansuki did not meet the definition of a business.
In addition, Glencore concurrently entered into a put and call option arrangement, whereby Glencore has a right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire the remaining 31% interest in Mutanda at fair market value in two 15.5% tranches in July 2016 and July 2018.
The present value of the put option, $685 million at acquisition date, has been accounted for within other financial liabilities see note 28 with the corresponding amount recognised against non-controlling interest.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Glencore agreed to acquire Prokon Pflanzenl GmbH, a German producer of biodiesel and rapeseed oil and a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain export terminal in Brazil, see note 30.
On 11 February 2015, Glencore announced its intention to divest its non-core 23.9% stake in Lonmin during the first half of 2015.
The divestment is currently proposed to be actioned by way of a distribution in specie to Glencore shareholders, subject to shareholder approval at Glencores Annual General Meeting, see note 18.
In response to the challenging market environment, Glencore has decided to curtail coal production in South Africa and Australia over the course of 2015, by 5 million and 15 million tonnes of export coal respectively.
The reduction is expected to be driven by production initiatives across a number of sites, the financial effect, positive or negative, is not determinable.
On 17 March 2015, Glencore issued in 2 tranches EUR 2 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 6 year EUR 1,250 million, 1.25% fixed coupon bonds: and 10 year EUR 750 million, 1.75% fixed coupon bonds.
186 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 35.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2014 2013 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals Allied Alumina Inc. Sherwin USA 100.0 100.0 Alumina production 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Las Bambas Mining S. A. Peru 0.0 100.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 2 Sagittarius Mines Inc Philippines 62.5 62.5 Copper production 3 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 75.3 75.2 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 69.0 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 0.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 49.0 Hydroelectric project African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 88.2 88.2 Iron Ore Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Falconbridge Dominican S. A. Dominican Rep. 85.3 85.3 Nickel production 4 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Eland Platinum Mines Pty Limited South Africa 74.0 74.0 Platinum production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 90.0 62.7 Zinc production Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the 4 board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Overall legal ownership is 26.959%: effective ownership is 62.5%.
3 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
TO and principal place of business is DRC.
4 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
187 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2014 2013 Main activity Metals and minerals continued AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation Pty Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production Energy products Cook Resources Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Togara Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Optimum Coal Holdings Limited South Africa 67.6 67.6 Coal production 5 Shanduka Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production 6 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 48.7 43.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production 7 Glencore E&P Canada Inc. Caracal Canada 100.0 1.3 Oil exploration production Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 89.2 Oil storage and bunkering Agricultural products Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Biofuel production Moreno Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Zaklady Tluszozowe w Bodaczowie Sp.
z. o. o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production Viterra Group Canada Australia 100.0 100.0 Grain handling Glencane Bioenergia S. A. formerly Rio Vermelho Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane ethanol production Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo.
Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling 5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
7 Prior to acquisition of the remaining issued shares of Caracal on 8 July 2014 see note 25, the Group acquired shares on the open market resulting in an investment of 13.2% at acquisition date.
188 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements 35.
PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2014 2013 Main activity Other operating and finance Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Europe S. A. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Projects Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Grain B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating 8 Principal joint ventures 9 Clermont Coal Mines Limited Australia 25.1 0.0 Coal production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 44.0 44.0 Iron Ore 10 Principal joint operations Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia 80.0 80.0 Coal production Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production 8 The principal joint ventures are accounted for as joint arrangements as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely or jointly control the entities.
9 The Groups effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
10 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are note structured through separate vehicles.
189 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2014 2013 Main activity Principal joint operations continued Donkin Joint Venture Canada 0.0 75.0 Coal production ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 37.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates Renova S. A. Argentina 50.0 33.3 Biofuel production Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 33.4 33.4 Coal terminal Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd Australia 37.0 37.0 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.6 28.6 Copper production 11 Century Aluminum Company USA 46.6 46.6 Diversified production 12 Russneft Group Russia 40.049.040.049.0 Oil production 13 Lonmin plc UK 24.5 24.5 Platinum production Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production 11 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 41.8% 2013: 41.8% voting interest and 4.8% non-voting interest 2013: 4.8%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in various subsidiaries of the Russneft Group, it has limited management influence and therefore does not have significant influence.
13 Lonmin plcs business year-end is 30 September and principal place of business is South Africa.
Lonmin is publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol LMI.
L. 190 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Additional information In this section 191 Glossary 197 Production by quarter Q4 2013 to Q4 2014 204 Shareholder information IBC Forward looking statements
