Definitions KPI definitions Further financial definitions The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: Group organic revenue growth Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has the incremental effect of acquisitions and divestments.
included within its published financial statements, non-GAAP measures including trading profit and underlying earnings results.
Trading profit has Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates been defined as operating profit from continuing operations excluding the The year-on-year increase in underlying profit after taxation, stated at impacts of business acquisition and divestment related activity and business constant translation exchange rates, divided by the weighted average restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded are changes in the number of ordinary shares.
marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed by the Directors to be Operating cash conversion of an exceptional nature.
Operating cash flow as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets Return on invested capital recognised on acquisition, revaluation gains and losses arising on the original Trading profit as a percentage of the average invested capital during the year.
equity interests on stepped acquisitions, adjustments to businesses held for sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, retirement up on acquisition, other direct costs associated with business combinations benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, and terminated divestments and adjustments to contingent consideration provisions and other financial assets.
Intangible assets recognised on business related to previously acquired businesses.
Business restructuring costs relate combinations are grossed up to their original cost before amortisation and an to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio which are incremental to normal adjustment is also made to reinstate the historic goodwill previously written off operations.
These relate to the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired directly to reserves.
PV investment Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance Private Venture PV or company funded Research and Development R&D costs, which excludes acquisition related items, and after deducting associated measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
Staff safety major accident incident rate Operating cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities before The number of accidents resulting in more than three days absence per payment of tax, interest, restructuring costs and M&A related costs but after 100,000 employees.
cash flows from the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets.
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow Voluntary staff turnover as a percentage of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures.
The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number of employees over the period, excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends or retired.
received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments relating to M&A related activities.
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
When providing sectoral analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue to US based customers on programmes that could be designated as export and is therefore non-US defence security from a market analysis perspective.
com 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Find more online Our website provides further information including shareholder services and governance, details of our COBHAM PROTECTS LIVES products and services, corporate responsibility and sustainability and more at: AND LIVELIHOODS WITH ITS www.
com DIFFERENTIATED TECHNOLOGY AND KNOW-HOW.
IT OFFERS AN INNOVATIVE RANGE OF TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES TO SOLVE CHALLENGING PROBLEMS IN HARSH ENVIRONMENTS Corporate responsibility and sustainability Investor information and share price performance Products and service offerings www.
com  Employing more than 12,000 people on five continents, Cobham has customers and partners in over 100 countries, with market leading positions Front cover image: Inside cover image: Designed and produced by: This document is printed on Amadeus coated 50 silk, in wireless, audio, video and data Lockheed Martin A2100 Satellite: Inmarsat: Global Xpress Satellite Addison Group a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% post consumer Affordability, Performance and Reliability Cobham Semiconductor Solutions supplies www.
net and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin fibre sourced communications, including: satellite Cobham Semiconductor Solutions is at the a wide range of component and subsystem from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
communications: defence electronics: forefront of the space-based telecommunications solutions used on the Inmarsat Global Xpress Printed by: The pulp used in this product is bleached using an revolution.
It is a partner on the Lockheed Martin GX satellite, the first commercial service air-to-air refuelling: aviation services: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
elemental chlorine free ECF process.
A2100 satellite platform, one of the most to offer global mobile broadcast coverage.
life support and mission equipment.
powerful flight-proven commercial spacecraft Cobhams content ranges from discrete Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System available, supplying microelectronics for vital components to complete major subsystems is certified to ISO 14001. subsystems including the command and that are delivered ready for high level system data handling subsystem the brains of the integration.
Cobham SATCOM is also a launch When you have finished with this report, please pass it on to other interested spacecraft and microelectronics service partner with Inmarsat supplying maritime and 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are parties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
solutions to enable mission success.
recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with thisproduction will be recycled.
Front cover: Image courtesy of Lockheed Martin Corporation.
Inside front cover: Image courtesy of Boeing.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com C O B H A M 1 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The most important thing we build is trust The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK www.
