Glossary Acronym Full name Description A330MRTT Airbus A330 MRTT A military derivative of the A330, designed as a multi role air-to-air refuelling and transport aircraft.
A350 Airbus A350 XWB A twin engine extra wide body jet aircraft for commercial use.
The aircraft entered service in 2014.
A400M Airbus A400M A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties within challenging operating conditions: short-medium range flights: long range flights: and the ability to provide aerial refuelling capabilities.
AMDR Air and Missile Defense Radar An advanced radar suite for US Navy destroyers currently in development.
It provides protection against advanced anti-ship and ballistic missile threats.
AMRAAM Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile A new generation of air-to-air missile with an all-weather, beyond-visual-range capability.
B787 Boeing 787 Dreamliner A family of efficient airplanes with new passenger pleasing features that bring the economics of large jet transports to the mid-size aircraft market.
COSO ERM Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the An integrated framework which helps businesses assess Treadway Commission, Enterprise Risk Management and enhance their internal control systems.
The framework is used to control activities and to better achieve established objectives.
DAS Distributed Antenna Systems Communication systems for infrastructure such as buildings, tunnels and metros.
Covering a wide range of frequencies, it encompasses both public safety and cellular bands, providing wireless coverage for network operators, transportation and public safety authorities.
DREX Digital Receiver Exciter An electronic subsystem which enables military platforms to simultaneously operate its own radar systems, while also jamming hostile radar systems.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning An IT system which integrates all business processes, including manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing, distribution, and inventory into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to data across many business functions.
E190 Embraer 190 A next generation narrow body, twin engine jet airliner.
Eurofighter Eurofighter Typhoon A multi-role combat aircraft covering a full spectrum of air operations, from air policing, to peace support, through to high intensity conflict.
Explorer 5075 GX Explorer 5075 Global Xpress An auto-deploy flyaway SATCOM system that is lightweight, rugged and highly portable.
It is a land based system that is configured specifically for operation on the GX network.
F-# USAF designated fighter aircraft Designation given by the US Air Force to aircraft designed for air-to-air combat or for multiple roles, including ground support missions.
com 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OTHER INFORMATION Acronym Full name Description FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project to replace the UKs air-to-air refuelling fleets, and elements of the air transport work previously undertaken by the RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets.
GX Inmarsat Global Xpress A satellite service, with global coverage expected at the start of the second half of 2015, which will be the worlds first to offer global mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress will provide increased data speeds and bandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
IED Improvised Explosive Device Homemade bombs which have been the weapons of choice for terrorists due to their availability and destructiveness.
Jaguar SEPECAT Jaguar A supersonic low-level strike fighter created by a joint venture between Britain and France.
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
The KC-46, which had its first flight at the end of 2014, offers improved cargo and passenger capability.
KC-390 Embraer KC-390 A medium-lift military transport and aerial refuelling tanker aircraft currently being developed by Embraer.
Production is scheduled to commence in 2016.
MRJ Mitsubishi Regional Jet A next generation regional jet which will give class leading operational economy and outstanding cabin comfort.
NASA The National Aeronautics and A US government agency responsible for a civilian space Space Administration programme as well as aeronautics and aerospace research.
Sailor 100 GX Sailor 100 Global Xpress An advanced 3-axis stabilized Ka-band antenna system designed for the Inmarsat GX satellite network.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables voice and data communications such as telephone calls, television or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare Improvement Program An evolutionary series of enhancements to the US Navys AN SLQ-32 electronic warfare system for surface ships.
TeraVM TeraVM A comprehensive internal protocol network and application performance test and measurement solution.
TM500 TM500 A family of offload test platforms that enable networks including 4G and LTE to offload to Wifi connectivity.
com Cobham plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
