GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Financial Statements Index Consolidated Income Statement 76 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 77 Consolidated Balance Sheet 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 79 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 80 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 1.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt 92 10.
Investments in joint ventures and associates 96 14.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale 100 18.
Share based payments 112 28. Business combinations 113 29.
com Cobham plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated Income Statement For the year ended 31 December 2014 m Note 2014 2013 Revenue 3 1,851.7 1,789.7 Cost of sales 1,290.1 1,220.9 Gross profit 561.6 568.8 Selling and distribution costs 100.3 84.7 Administrative expenses 403.9 328.4 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 0.2 3.1 Operating profit 57.6 158.8 Finance income 5 6.4 5.3 Finance costs 5 39.7 37.5 Profit before taxation 24.3 126.6 Taxation 6 4.7 12.1 Profit after taxation for the year 29.0 114.5 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 28.8 114.3 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 29.0 114.5 Earnings per ordinary share 8 Basic 2.60p 10.70p Diluted 2.58p 10.65p Trading profit is calculated as follows: m Note 2014 2013 Operating profit 57.6 158.8 Adjusted to exclude: Business restructuring 52.2 56.1 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 21.8 2.2 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 113.6 103.9 Impairment of goodwill 63.0 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 62.1 Exceptional legal costs 0.8 Other business acquisition and divestment related items 40.7 0.1 Trading profit 2 286.7 317.6 Underlying EPS 18.48p 21.60p The definitions of trading profit and underlying EPS are shown in note 1.
com 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended 31 December 2014 m Note 2014 2013 Profit after taxation for the year 29.0 114.5 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit retirement benefit obligations 23 27.7 25.6 Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 23 0.7 Tax effects 6 5.0 4.1 23.4 21.5 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Net translation differences on investments in overseas subsidiaries 26 18.7 11.1 Reclassification of cash flow hedge fair values 26 1.3 4.5 Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 26 1.6 0.6 Tax effects 6 0.9 1.2 16.7 7.2 Total other comprehensive expense for the year 40.1 28.7 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 11.1 85.8 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 11.3 85.6 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 11.1 85.8 www.
com Cobham plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheet As at 31 December 2014 m Note 2014 2013 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 10 1,997.2 1,162.2 Property, plant and equipment 11 390.0 350.8 Investment properties 12 10.4 9.9 Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 3.1 3.1 Trade and other receivables 16 53.3 22.2 Other financial assets 15 6.1 6.1 Deferred tax 21 10.5 9.9 Derivative financial instruments 22 7.6 5.1 2,478.2 1,569.3 Current assets Inventories 14 431.4 315.9 Trade and other receivables 16 436.6 317.7 Current tax receivables 0.4 0.8 Derivative financial instruments 22 8.7 6.6 Cash and cash equivalents 9 225.6 200.7 Assets classified as held for sale 17 2.1 8.2 1,104.8 849.9 Liabilities Current liabilities Borrowings 18 1.5 48.1 Trade and other payables 19 503.6 370.3 Provisions 20 54.1 34.4 Current tax liabilities 119.2 112.2 Derivative financial instruments 22 20.7 4.6 Liabilities associated with assets classified as held for sale 17 5.2 699.1 574.8 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 18 1,446.8 606.0 Trade and other payables 19 36.2 38.0 Provisions 20 13.3 8.6 Deferred tax 21 157.8 52.9 Derivative financial instruments 22 15.5 7.4 Retirement benefit obligations 23 102.0 87.3 1,771.6 800.2 Net assets 1,112.3 1,044.2 Equity Share capital 25 30.4 28.9 Share premium account 301.9 126.6 Other reserves 26 42.7 55.2 Retained earnings 736.4 832.7 Total equity attributable to the owners of the parent 1,111.4 1,043.4 Non-controlling interests in equity 0.9 0.8 Total equity 1,112.3 1,044.2 The financial statements on pages 76 to 117 were approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the Board on 4 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Bob Murphy Simon Nicholls Directors Cobham plc www.
com 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31 December 2014 Total Share Other attributable NonShare premium reserves Retained to owners of controlling Total m capital account note 26 earnings the parent interests equity Total equity at 1 January 2013 28.9 126.6 64.2 834.1 1,053.8 0.6 1,054.4 Profit for the year 114.3 114.3 0.2 114.5 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 21.5 21.5 21.5 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 7.2 7.2 7.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 7.2 92.8 85.6 0.2 85.8 Net purchase of treasury shares 1.8 1.8 1.8 Dividends note 7 96.6 96.6 96.6 Share based payments note 27 1.7 1.7 1.7 Release of hedge reserve 1.5 1.5 1.5 Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings 4.2 4.2 Tax effects note 6 2.6 2.6 2.6 Total equity at 31 December 2013 28.9 126.6 55.2 832.7 1,043.4 0.8 1,044.2 Profit for the year 28.8 28.8 0.2 29.0 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 23.4 23.4 23.4 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss 16.7 16.7 16.7 Total comprehensive expense for the year 16.7 5.4 11.3 0.2 11.1 Issue of shares note 25 1.5 175.3 176.8 176.8 Net proceeds from treasury shares 3.3 3.3 3.3 Dividends note 7 108.3 108.3 108.3 Share based payments note 27 6.1 6.1 6.1 Transfers of other reserves to retained earnings 3.3 3.3 Tax effects note 6 1.5 1.5 1.5 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Total equity at 31 December 2014 30.4 301.9 42.7 736.4 1,111.4 0.9 1,112.3 www.
com Cobham plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2014 m Note 2014 2013 Operating profit 57.6 158.8 Non-cash items: Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 0.2 3.1 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 62.1 Depreciation and amortisation including impairment 190.8 235.1 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 1.1 Business acquisition and divestment related items 23.8 1.6 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 22 21.8 2.2 Pension contributions in excess of pension charges 23 16.9 14.5 Share based payments 27 6.1 1.7 Operating cash movements: Increase in inventories 11.9 0.3 Increase in trade and other receivables 68.3 26.2 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 17.3 0.3 Increase decrease in provisions 12.9 3.9 Tax paid 37.0 37.6 Interest paid 31.5 33.7 Interest received 3.7 5.0 Net cash from operating activities 167.9 210.6 Cash flows from investing activities Dividends received from joint ventures 31 3.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 63.7 58.0 Purchase of intangible assets 12.4 11.7 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.3 8.0 Investment in other financial assets 6.1 Loans repaid by joint ventures 2.1 Investment in loan notes 9.0 18.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash or debt acquired 28 846.1 126.0 Contingent consideration paid 28.5 2.5 Proceeds of business divestments 6.6 0.5 Net cash used in investing activities 950.8 208.3 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of share capital 176.8 Dividends paid 7 108.3 96.6 Purchase of treasury shares 5.5 15.3 Proceeds on allocation of treasury shares 8.8 13.5 New borrowings 9 1,467.5 67.0 Repayment of borrowings 9 699.9 7.7 Net cash from used in financing activities 839.4 39.1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 56.5 36.8 Exchange movements 31.2 14.4 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 199.0 250.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 224.3 199.0 A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents to the Balance Sheet and movement in net debt is detailed in note 9.
com 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group Financial Statements Failure by Cobham to execute or deliver a project or programme gives rise 1.
Accounting Policies to the risk of increased programme costs, contract penalties, litigation and other financial liabilities, reduced future profitability and reputational risk.
General information Judgement is therefore required as regards the final costs of technical solutions, These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements of the outcome of negotiations with customers, the amounts recoverable under Cobham plc the Company, a public company limited by shares, registered these contracts and any provisions required.
and domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
The Directors take account of the advice of experts in quantifying Basis of preparation the expected costs of future adverse outcomes.
Due to the inherent These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance uncertainty associated with such matters, the timing and determination with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the total costs or amount of any payments under any claims could interpretations of the IFRS Interpretations Committee and those parts of the differ from the amounts provided.
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Intangible assets recognised on acquisition note 28 These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by under the historical cost convention, unless otherwise stated.
recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised where they Principal accounting policies are separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied value that can be measured reliably.
For the Group, these intangible unless otherwise stated, are as set out below.
assets usually comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships and technology based assets, but can also include acquired patents, Accounting developments software rights and licences and development costs.
New standards and amendments to standards which have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2014 are: In establishing the fair value for intangible assets recognised on acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account of the individual IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements: circumstances of the entity acquired.
Factors considered include trading data, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements: the value and duration of contracts acquired and the strength, duration and IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in other Entities: degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers.
Valuation estimates IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate Financial Statements: are also used, including the estimation of likely external royalty rates that IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and Joint Ventures: could be associated with technology and branding assets and attributable Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: transition guidance: future cash flows.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities: Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation on offsetting Impairment of goodwill note 10 Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities: Amendments to IAS 36, Recoverable amount disclosures for A review of the carrying value of goodwill is completed at least once a year to Non-financial Assets: ensure that it is not impaired.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the Amendments to IAS 39, Novation of Derivatives and Continuation cash generating units CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the of Hedge Accounting : and value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future IFRIC 21, Levies.
cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
No changes to previously published accounting policies or other adjustments were required on their adoption.
Inventory provisions note 14 The nature of much of the Groups business means that inventory held Management judgement and estimation uncertainty can become technically obsolete.
It is also necessary to hold additional The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the spare parts in order to support key customers and programmes.
Judgement is use of estimates and judgements that affect the application of accounting required in assessing the level of provision required for obsolete, slow moving policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
and defective items of inventory, reflecting assumptions concerning future orders and revenue streams.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of Taxation notes 6 and 21 future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement The current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
There are many accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the going transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is concern basis of preparation.
Although estimates are based on managements uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where differ from those estimates.
the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred The Board considers that the key assumptions concerning the future and other tax provisions and the income statement in the period in which such key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, which have determination is made.
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, are as follows: Retirement benefits note 23 The Group Financial Statements include costs and liabilities in relation Contract risk and programme execution to retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in Where appropriate, the consolidated financial statements include provisions assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities, for the estimated outcome of commercial disputes and other claims, including which include the long term rate of increase of salary costs, discount those with long term contract partners.
In addition, the nature of much of the rate, inflation and mortality rates.
The Group uses published indices and contracting work done by the Group means that there are reasonably frequent independent actuarial advice to select the values of critical assumptions.
contractual issues, variations and renegotiations that arise in the ordinary course of business, whose resolution is uncertain and could materially impact the Groups future reported earnings.
com Cobham plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Segment net assets are disclosed voluntarily in note 3 and include intangible Definitions assets, property, plant and equipment, investment properties, inventory, trade Underlying measures note 2 and other receivables, trade and other payables and provisions.
They do not To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included include tax, net debt, derivative financial instruments, contingent consideration within its published financial statements non-GAAP measures including trading payable or retirement benefit obligations.
profit and underlying earnings results.
These are considered by the Board to be the most meaningful measures under which to assess the true operating Basis of consolidation performance of the Group.
The Group Financial Statements include the financial statements of the Parent Company, Cobham plc, and of all its subsidiaries made up to the All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses end of the financial period.
including those available for sale until the point of sale.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has control, which is Trading profit note 2 defined as the power to govern the financial and operating policies of This has been defined as operating profit from continuing operations an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully excluding the impacts of business acquisition and divestment related consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company activity and business restructuring costs as detailed below.
Also excluded until the date that control ceases.
On derecognition, any amounts previously are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative recognised in Other Comprehensive Income OCI in respect of that entity financial instruments, impairments of intangible assets, and items deemed are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from trading profit and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets Joint ventures are entities where the parties that have joint control have rights recognised on acquisition, revaluation gains and losses arising on the original to the net assets of the arrangement.
Associates are entities where the Group equity interests on stepped acquisitions, adjustments to businesses held for has significant influence.
Joint ventures and associates are not consolidated but sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written are accounted for using the equity method.
The Group Financial Statements up on acquisition, other direct costs associated with business combinations include the Groups share of the post-acquisition change in net assets and the and terminated divestments, and adjustments to contingent consideration post-tax profit or loss of jointly controlled entities and associates from the date related to previously acquired businesses.
that joint control or significant influence commences until the date this ceases.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio which are incremental to normal operations.
These relate to All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated the integration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014 and the EiD on consolidation.
The EiD programme, to be completed by the end of 2015, relates to the design and implementation of Standard Operating Frameworks Foreign currencies within the principal locations, development costs of a new ERP computer The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
Most Group companies, system, together with site consolidation, consequential asset write downs including the Parent Company, use their local currency as their functional and workforce reduction costs.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Underlying earnings note 2 Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any costs, which excludes acquisition related items, and after deducting associated exchange differences arising are taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
For consolidation purposes, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations Net debt note 9 are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an at the balance sheet date.
approximation for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these translations are accounted for in OCI and the translation reserve.
Free cash flow note 2 Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities plus dividends Business combinations note 28 received from joint ventures, less cash flows related to the purchase or disposal Businesses acquired are accounted for using the acquisition method of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets but excluding payments of accounting with effect from the date control passes.
The cost of an relating to acquisition related activities.
acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred.
This is the fair value of the assets transferred typically cash, the liabilities Operating segments note 3 assumed and any equity interests issued by the Group, including contingent The chief operating decision making body for the Group has been identified or deferred amounts.
Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are as the Board.
It reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess translated at the exchange rates at the date of business combination.
Details of the composition and purpose of the Board can be found on pages 44 to 49.
Where a business combination is completed in stages, any previously held interests are remeasured to fair value at the date at which control is achieved.
The Group reports four operating segments whose revenue and results Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
are reported to the Board.
These are Communications and Connectivity, Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired Mission Systems, Advanced Electronic Solutions and Aviation Services.
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are All operating segments meet the definition of reportable segments as measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the defined in IFRS 8.
The principal activities of these segments are described consideration transferred over the fair value of the Groups share of the on pages 20 to 27. identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The Board assesses the trading performance of operating segments based Contingent consideration includes amounts which may become payable in on revenue and trading profit as defined above.
Finance income, finance connection with completed acquisitions, based upon future operating results costs and taxation are not segmented and are reviewed by the Board on of the businesses acquired.
It is accounted for as a financial liability measured a consolidated basis.
at fair value on a recurring basis and changes in the fair value are accounted Cobham plc www.
com 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for as gains or losses recognised through profit or loss and excluded from Dividends note 7 trading profit and underlying earnings.
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are fully authorised.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration, net of Intangible assets note 10 returns and other allowances.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long term contract is recognised interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business when the significant risks and rewards of ownership and effective control of at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired is allocated at acquisition to the goods have been passed to the customer, recovery of the consideration the CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
is probable, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is In the case of contracts with a long duration, including contracts with a funded monitored for internal management purposes.
development phase, revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date assessed with reference to completed contract milestones Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and reviewed for which have been accepted by the customer.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Long term contract accounting as described in IAS 11, Construction Contracts is not generally applicable to the longer term contracts for sales of goods On divestment of a business the attributable amount of goodwill is entered into by Group companies.
Where long term contract accounting included in the determination of the profit or loss on divestment.
is applicable, revenue is recognised on a percentage of completion basis This includes any exchange differences reclassified to the income whereby a portion of the contract revenue is recognised based on contract statement from the translation reserve.
costs incurred to date compared with total estimated costs at completion.
Other intangible assets Revenue for services is recognised as the services are rendered with reference Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group to the proportion of the service delivered to date.
For cost-plus contracts are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
typically with government departments and agencies, revenue is recognised These include customer relationships, technology and software, trademarks, to the extent of reimbursable costs incurred, plus a proportionate amount of licences and patents.
The only internally generated intangible assets are the estimated fee earned.
For contracts where revenue is determined on a development costs which are capitalised as described below and internally unit activity basis, revenue is recognised on the basis of activity undertaken developed software where asset recognition criteria are met.
These intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated useful life Revenue excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
on a straight-line basis as follows: Taxation including deferred taxation note 6 and 21 Customer relationships 5 to 15 years The tax expense is the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Technology based assets 5 to 15 years Development costs 2 to 10 years Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit Order book and trade names 6 months to 10 years before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and Software and other intangible assets 2 to 10 years also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively Useful lives are assessed for each asset on an individual basis, taking into enacted at the balance sheet date.
account the specific characteristics of the asset.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method in Research and development respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Development costs are capitalised when it can be demonstrated that liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
the conditions for capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met, paying particular attention to the requirements for the product to Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted be technically feasible and capable of generating a financial return.
At that or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and that are expected to point, further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the intangible apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Tax is asset is readily available for use and is then amortised as described above.
charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items All development costs not capitalised are written off as incurred together recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is also with all research costs.
dealt with in OCI or in equity respectively.
Property, plant and equipment note 11 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable Freehold and leasehold land and buildings, plant and machinery, and fixtures, profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can fittings, tools and equipment are held at historic cost less accumulated be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Cost comprises the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable purchase price and any costs directly attributable to the asset.
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets to be recovered.
All property, plant and equipment other than land and assets under construction is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated residual Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments values over the estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary Freehold buildings 50 years difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leasehold properties Period to next break clause Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 15 years taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
com Cobham plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed annually Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement and adjusted where necessary.
Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits receivable for impairment at least annually.
as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets under construction are held at cost and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment once construction is complete and Inventories note 14 they enter into service.
They are depreciated from this point in accordance with Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost the policies described above.
comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in, first-out lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all relevant lease.
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made where necessary for obsolete, slow moving The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined and defective items.
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale note 17 Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are stated at the Aircraft overhaul expenditure lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
No depreciation Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when incurred is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
and the resultant property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on aircraft Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their held under operating leases are provided for over the period between the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than scheduled maintenance events.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within a year of the balance Investment properties note 12 sheet date.
The asset or disposal group should be available for immediate sale Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals or for capital in its present condition and actively marketed at a price that is reasonable in appreciation, are stated at cost in the balance sheet.
They are depreciated relation to its current fair value.
on a straight-line basis to their estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives of up to 50 years.
Fair values The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the balance sheet date.
Fair value measurements are used on a Impairments recurring basis except where used in the measurement of net assets classified The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets are reviewed at as held for sale, where accounting standards require the use of fair values only least annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
Non-recurring fair values are also used in the valuation In addition, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, of assets and liabilities in a business combination.
are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments have been determined by the use of valuation techniques, primarily discounted cash flows, based Where there is an indication of impairment, the assets recoverable amount on assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash The fair value of contingent consideration is determined based on the flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that estimated payment, discounted to present value and using the entitys own reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks data and unobservable inputs such as the anticipated rate of annual revenue specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not growth, profit margins and discount rates.
The estimated payment is calculated been adjusted.
using the income approach, considering different scenarios of the relevant measure commonly EBITDA.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount of an asset is lower than its carrying amount.
All impairment losses are recognised in the For financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in the balance income statement.
sheet, the carrying values of these items are assumed to approximate to fair value due to their short term nature.
An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only after a change in the estimates used to assess recoverable amount is identified Non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value include net assets and only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the classified as held for sale.
Fair values are also used in assessing the assets and carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or liabilities acquired in a business combination.
These fair value measurements amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal is are based on observable market prices or rates.
For non-financial assets, the recognised in the income statement.
fair value takes into account the highest and best use of the asset.
Leasing notes 11 and 29 There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer period.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers in and transfers out of fair substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases value hierarchy levels as at the date of the event or change in circumstances are classified as operating leases.
that caused the transfer, although there have been no such transfers during the current or comparative periods.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, Financial instruments note 15 each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance at trade date.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
com 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date.
Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount of Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those categorised as held proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net of amounts for trading under IAS 39 and are classified as current assets or non-current capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct assets dependent upon maturity.
Such financial assets are subsequently issue costs, are charged to the income statement and are added to the carrying carried at fair value.
amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or property, plant and equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon maturity Trade payables and included within trade and other receivables.
Loans and receivables also Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value.
includes cash and cash equivalents.
The fair value of these financial assets is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting or issue of the asset.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables As explained in note 24, the Groups activities expose it to the financial risks are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to reduce Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets either these exposures and does not use derivative financial instruments for designated by management as available for sale or not falling into any other speculative purposes.
Other derivative financial instruments may be used category.
Financial assets so categorised include equity instruments which do from time to time to hedge other exposures such as inflation risks.
not have a quoted price in an active market and hence are measured at cost.
The Group has documented its risk management objectives and strategy None of the Groups material financial assets fall into the held to maturity for undertaking various hedge transactions, and utilises hedge accounting category, which is defined as non-derivative financial assets with fixed principles in relation to interest rate swaps and a limited number of specific maturity dates that the Group intends to hold to maturity.
These are designated as cash flow hedges which mitigate the Groups exposure to changes in interest rates arising on floating Financial liabilities rate debt.
From time to time, the Group may also use interest rate swaps to Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as held for trading manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings: under IAS 39 and are held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities, however there are no such contracts outstanding at the present time.
which are held at amortised cost.
All financial liabilities are classified as current or non-current liabilities dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments.
Foreign exchange contracts entered into to mitigate foreign exchange impacts of trading in non-functional currencies, and inflation swaps entered into to Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading unless mitigate inflation risks, are generally not accounted for using hedge accounting.
they are designated as hedges.
Foreign currency borrowings are used to hedge the effects of changes in the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
These borrowings either provide The fair value of financial liabilities held at cost not at fair value through a natural economic hedge through the use of intercompany debt or are profit or loss is adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable designated as fair value hedges of the foreign currency risk attributable to to the acquisition or issue of the liability.
Financial liabilities at fair value the foreign equity investment and are treated as net investment hedges.
through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost using the Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date effective interest method.
the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the Financial assets and liabilities are presented on an offset basis when there derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there item being hedged.
is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Where hedge accounting is applied, the relationship between hedging Trade and other receivables instruments and hedged items is documented at the inception of the Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost, reduced by transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence that flows or fair values if appropriate of hedged items.
the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for based on estimated Where interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts are designated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience.
and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in fair value Amounts which are less than six months overdue are provided where recovery is recognised in OCI through the hedge reserve.
The gain or loss relating to of the balance due is considered to be doubtful.
the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to finance income or finance The impairment recorded is the difference between the carrying value of costs in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the receivables and the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income statement in administrative expenses.
The balance may be written off in full generally where receivables When a cash flow hedging derivative expires or is sold, or when a hedge are in excess of 12 months old.
At that time, any amounts previously provided no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss for impairment are released.
existing in the hedge reserve in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the forecast transaction is Cash and cash equivalents ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a hedged transaction is Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank deposits with no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable in the hedge reserve in equity is immediately transferred to the income on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are statement in that period.
com Cobham plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Where net investment hedging applies, the exchange differences arising on the Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured borrowings designated as fair value hedges are recognised in OCI and through on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate profit and loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more The resulting net defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately than 12 months.
on the face of the balance sheet.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, the movements in fair value of For defined contribution schemes, the amounts charged to the income the derivative instruments are included in the income statement as part of statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits operating profit.
The fair value of such derivatives is classified as a current are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions or non-current asset or liability dependent upon the expected realisation payable in the year and contributions actually paid are recorded as either of the assets or settlement of the liabilities.
accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Provisions note 20 Share capital note 25 A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or constructive Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual be required and where the amount can be reliably measured.
No provision arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences is recognised where the existence of an obligation is possible but will only a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
be confirmed by uncertain future events.
Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on a specific Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments products, at managements best estimates of the expenditure required to are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share capital classified as settle the Groups liabilities, based on past experience and industry averages liabilities are recognised in the income statement as finance costs.
Treasury shares note 25 Contract loss provisions are recognised for onerous contracts when the When ordinary share capital recognised as equity is acquired by the Company, expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower the shares are held as treasury shares.
The consideration paid, including than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
commissions and taxes, is deducted from retained earnings and total equity.
The proceeds of any treasury shares subsequently sold or re-issued, net of Aircraft maintenance provisions are established in respect of significant commission and taxes, are recognised as an increase in retained earnings and periodic maintenance costs, where maintenance activity is required on total equity.
leased operational aircraft or engines on a cycle greater than 12 months.
Costs are charged to the income statement on the basis of utilisation of the Share based payments note 27 aircraft and are credited to the provision.
The provision is then utilised by For grants made under the Groups equity settled share based payment absorbing the actual costs incurred in carrying out the maintenance activity.
schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of awards as at the time Maintenance carried out on a cycle of 12 months or less is charged to the of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting income statement as incurred.
periods, taking into account the Directors best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group reviews and updates the vesting estimate, Provisions also arise in connection with leased aircraft, where contracts contain which includes progress against non-market related performance conditions, specific conditions regarding the configuration of the aircraft on its return to at each balance sheet date.
the lessor at the end of the lease.
The estimated cost associated with fulfilling these requirements is charged to the income statement on an aircraft utilisation The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the Black-Scholes basis.
The provision is utilised on actual return of the aircraft or on incurring the model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related expenditure required to return the aircraft to the state of maintenance required performance criteria and taking into account all non-vesting conditions.
by the lease before return of the aircraft to the lessor.
Future accounting developments Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and under performance guarantees are recognised at managements best interpretations have been published that are mandatory for future accounting estimates of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
Those endorsed by the EU for use from 1 January 2015 are as follows: Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk free rate when the impact Amendment to IAS 19, Defined Benefit Plans: is material.
Pensions note 23 The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined None of these have been adopted early by the Group and none are expected contribution schemes.
to have an impact on the Groups financial reporting.
For defined benefit schemes, current service costs and costs related There are also a number of new standards and amendments to existing to the administration of the schemes are charged to operating profit.
standards including Annual Improvements which, once endorsed by the EU, Gains and losses on settlements and curtailments arising on a business will be effective from 1 January 2016 or later years.
These include: divestment are included in profit on divestment.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest on net IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: assets or liabilities is shown within finance income and costs.
remeasurements are recognised immediately in OCI.
Based on an initial review, IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact on Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held the results of the Group.
IFRS 15 is under review to determine the potential separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
com 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Underlying measures Underlying measures, defined in note 1 on page 82, are derived from operating profit as set out below: m Note 2014 2013 Operating profit 57.6 158.8 Business restructuring Excellence in Delivery 28.1 56.1 Business restructuring Aeroflex integration 24.1 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 21.8 2.2 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 113.6 103.9 Impairment of goodwill 10 63.0 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 62.1 Exceptional legal costs 0.8 Other business acquisition and divestment related items Acquisition related costs 21.4 1.7 Pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written off 19.6 4.1 Release of contingent consideration 11.9 Divestment and adjustments to businesses held for sale 0.3 6.2 Trading profit 286.7 317.6 Net underlying finance costs 29.7 29.6 Underlying profit before taxation 257.0 288.0 Taxation charge on underlying profit effective rate 20.25% 52.0 57.0 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.2 Underlying profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent 204.8 230.8 Underlying basic EPS 18.48p 21.60p Underlying diluted EPS 18.38p 21.51p Underlying administrative expenses, which exclude the reconciling items in the table above, amounted to 174.8m 2013: 169.6m, representing 9.4% 2013: 9.5% of revenue.
Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio, under its EiD and Aeroflex integration programmes, which are incremental to normal operations.
The EiD programme relates exclusively to the design and implementation of Standard Operating Frameworks within the principal locations, initial development costs of a new ERP computer system, together with site consolidation, consequential asset write downs and workforce reduction costs arising from additional streamlining under the two year extension of the programme, which continues into 2015.
Costs in respect of the Aeroflex integration are consequential to the acquisition of the Aeroflex group in September 2014 and are in line with the Companys plans announced in the shareholder circular of 16 June 2014, which set out the synergies and cost savings expected to be derived by the integration of Aeroflex with the existing Cobham businesses.
On 15 July 2013 an agreement was reached to acquire the 50% shareholding that the Group did not already own in FBH.
The proceeds of the deemed disposal of the 50% interest previously held were valued at 74.2m which generated the revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH of 62.1m.
Net cash from operating activities is reconciled to free cash flow as follows: m 2014 2013 Net cash from operating activities per Cash Flow Statement 167.9 210.6 Dividends received from joint ventures 3.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 63.7 58.0 Purchase of intangible assets 12.4 11.0 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.3 8.0 Acquisition related costs paid 20.3 1.7 Free cash flow 114.4 155.0 www.
com Cobham plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 3.
Revenue and segmental information Revenue Revenue comprises income from the sale of goods and services during the year and can be analysed as follows: 2013 m 2014 as re-presented Revenue from sale of goods 1,368.2 1,376.7 Revenue from services 483.5 413.0 1,851.7 1,789.7 Revenue from services includes service contracts in the Aviation Services Sector together with logistics support, maintenance and repairs in other Sectors: comparatives have been re-presented to reflect this allocation.
During the year the Aerospace and Security segment was renamed Communications and Connectivity, and the Defence Systems segment became Advanced Electronic Solutions.
The comparative segmental analysis of revenue and trading profit shown above has been re-presented on a basis consistent with the Sectors as reported during 2014, which includes the transfer of the Exeter, New Hampshire business from Communications and Connectivity to Advanced Electronic Solutions.
The remaining non-core businesses were divested during the year.
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before taxation as follows: m Note 2014 2013 Trading profit 286.7 317.6 Business restructuring 2 52.2 56.1 Movements in non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 22 21.8 2.2 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations 113.6 103.9 Impairment of goodwill 10 63.0 Revaluation gain arising on equity interests in FBH 28 62.1 Exceptional legal costs 0.8 Other business acquisition and divestment related items 40.7 0.1 Net finance costs 5 33.3 32.2 Profit before taxation 24.3 126.6 Cobham plc www.
com 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, investment properties and amortisation of internally generated intangibles are included in the calculation of trading profit and can be analysed by segment as follows: 2013 m 2014 as re-presented Communications and Connectivity 18.9 16.1 Mission Systems 5.0 5.7 Advanced Electronic Solutions 12.5 14.0 Aviation Services 38.8 30.6 Head office, other activities and elimination of inter-segment items 2.0 1.4 Core Group 77.2 67.8 Non-core businesses 0.4 Total Group 77.2 68.2 Details of employees analysed by operating segment can be found in note 4.
Geographical information Revenue Revenue from external customers analysed by their geographical location, irrespective of the origin of the goods and services, is shown below.
Revenue from customers located in individual countries within the EU except the UK and the rest of the world is not considered to be individually material.
m UK USA Australia Other EU countries Asia Rest of the world Total Year to 31 December 2014 228.3 814.4 247.2 286.5 169.9 105.4 1,851.7 Year to 31 December 2013 235.2 812.5 249.8 277.4 132.8 82.0 1,789.7 Non-current assets Non-current assets are analysed by the physical location of the assets and exclude financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Operating costs Cost of sales in the Income Statement includes 628.8m 2013: 592.7m for the cost of materials.
Company funded research and development m 2014 2013 Company funded research and development 96.9 88.0 Employment costs The aggregate employment costs of Group employees are as follows: m Note 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 519.9 497.0 Social security costs 43.8 41.1 Pension costs 23 31.0 29.6 Share based payments 27 6.1 1.7 600.8 566.0 www.
com Cobham plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued The average number of employees during the year, analysed by segment and including the proportional impact of Aeroflex employees, is as follows: 2013 2014 as re-presented Communications and Connectivity 3,841 3,735 Mission Systems 1,465 1,424 Advanced Electronic Solutions 2,802 2,512 Aviation Services 2,405 1,931 Head office and other activities 393 359 Core Group 10,906 9,961 Non-core businesses 35 129 Total Group 10,941 10,090 Compensation of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year was as follows: m 2014 2013 Salaries and other employee benefits 5.8 6.2 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.7 Share based payments 1.6 0.5 7.8 6.4 Audit fees During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Companys auditors,  LLP and its associates, as follows: m 2014 2013 Annual audit of the Parent Company and Group Financial Statements 1.0 1.0 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.2 1.1 Fees payable for audit services 2.2 2.1 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.3 Other tax advisory services 1.3 1.2 Other audit related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1.5 Fees payable for other services 3.2 1.7 Total fees payable to the auditors 5.4 3.8 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 55 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Finance income and costs m Note 2014 2013 Bank interest 4.5 3.3 Other finance income 1.9 2.0 Total finance income 6.4 5.3 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 30.9 29.6 Interest on net pension scheme liabilities 23 3.6 2.8 Other finance expense 5.2 5.1 Total finance costs 39.7 37.5 Net finance costs excluding pension schemes 29.7 29.4 Net finance costs arising from pension schemes 3.6 2.8 Net finance costs 33.3 32.2 Other finance expense above includes 2.6m of arrangement fees for the Aeroflex acquisition finance facility and unwinding of acquisition related discounting of 1.0m 2013: 2.6m.
These costs are excluded from underlying profit in note 2.
com 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Taxation m Note 2014 2013 Charge for the year 46.6 44.1 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 14.3 14.7 Current tax 32.3 29.4 Credit for the year 41.9 16.5 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 5.6 0.2 Impact of change in tax rates 0.7 1.0 Deferred tax 21 37.0 17.3 Total tax credit charge for the year 4.7 12.1 Income tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year at the rates prevailing in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
The total tax credit charge for the year includes a credit of 5.5m 2013: 7.7m charge for the UK.
The total charge for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: m 2014 2013 Profit before tax 24.3 126.6 Tax thereon at the UK income tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 5.2 29.4 Tax effect of share of results of joint ventures and associates 0.7 Effect of differences in overseas taxation rates 2.9 1.0 Expenditure qualifying for additional R&D tax relief 2.1 3.7 Revaluation gain on FBH 14.4 Goodwill impairment 14.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 8.7 14.5 Impact of other items 3.8 0.4 Total tax credit charge for the year 4.7 12.1 In addition the following charges credits have been included in OCI and equity: Included in OCI m 2014 2013 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial loss on retirement benefit obligations 4.7 4.1 Actuarial loss on other retirement benefit obligations 0.3 5.0 4.1 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Movements in hedge accounted derivative financial instruments 0.9 1.2 Included in equity m 2014 2013 Share based payments 1.5 2.6 The rate of UK corporation tax will reduce from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. www.
com Cobham plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 7.
Dividends m 2014 2013 Final dividend of 7.04 pence per share for 2013 2012: 6.4 pence 75.5 68.5 Interim dividend of 2.904 pence per share for 2014 2013: 2.64 pence 32.8 28.1 Total dividend authorised and paid during the year 108.3 96.6 In addition to the above, the Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 7.746 pence per share at an estimated total cost of 87.7m.
This dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
If authorised, it will be paid on 29 May 2015 to shareholders who are on the register of members as at 1 May 2015.
The total dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 will therefore be 10.65 pence per share 2013: 9.68 pence.
The total amount payable in respect of 2014 will be 120.5m.
Earnings per ordinary share 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted average number Per share average number Per share Earnings of shares amount Earnings of shares amount m million pence m million pence Basic earnings per share EPS Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 28.8 1,108.0 2.60 114.3 1,068.7 10.70 Effect of potentially dilutive securities 6.4 4.3 Diluted EPS 28.8 1,114.4 2.58 114.3 1,073.0 10.65 Potentially dilutive securities are unvested awards under the Groups share based payment schemes described in note 27.
Cash and cash equivalents and net debt Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net debt 2013 m Note 2014 as re-presented Cash and cash equivalents per Cash Flow Statement 224.3 199.0 Bank overdrafts 1.3 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents per Balance Sheet 225.6 200.7 Borrowings current liabilities 18 1.5 48.1 Borrowings non-current liabilities 18 1,446.8 606.0 Net debt at 31 December 1,222.7 453.4 Details of the offsetting of overdrafts with cash and cash equivalents and other financial instruments can be found in note 15.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt m 2014 2013 Net debt at 1 January 453.4 359.9 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year per Cash Flow Statement 56.5 36.8 New borrowings 1,467.5 67.0 Repayment of borrowings 699.9 7.7 Exchange movements 58.2 2.6 Net debt at 31 December 1,222.7 453.4 New borrowings include US$1,300m drawn under an acquisition finance facility and US$930m fixed rate senior notes.
Repayment of borrowings includes US$930m of the acquisition finance facility which was repaid following the issue of the senior notes.
Further details are provided in note 18.
com 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
This has been excluded from underlying profit in note 2.
All amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses in the Income Statement.
Business combinations during the year represent the acquisition of Aeroflex Corp. which is organised into five business units.
Further details can be found in note 28. Business combinations in 2013 related to Axell Wireless and the 50% of the shares of FB Heliservices Limited, FB Leasing Limited and FBS Limited together FBH not already owned by Cobham.
Customer relationships represents customer lists, customer contracts and the associated benefits of customer relationships recognised on acquisition.
Technology based assets represent trade secrets and processes, patented and unpatented technology, and know-how recognised on acquisition.
Other intangible assets represent purchased patents, licences and trademarks.
Intangible assets recognised on business combinations are derecognised when they have been fully amortised.
com Cobham plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Goodwill and annual impairment review Goodwill represents the premium paid in anticipation of future economic benefits from assets that are not capable of being separately identified and separately recognised, such as the value of the workforce, and is the only indefinite life intangible asset held by the Group.
The Group reviews goodwill for potential impairment of each cash generating unit CGU annually, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
As a result of the site integrations and other EiD activity, CGUs are typically considered to be Business Units.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations unless specific conditions at a CGU dictate otherwise.
Businesses held for sale are assessed for impairment using expected net proceeds of divestment.
In 2013 an impairment loss of 63.0m was recognised in respect of the Cobham Tactical Communications and Surveillance business.
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following key assumptions: Cash flow forecasts for the following five years prepared as part of the annual strategic planning process and approved by management.
These forecasts take into account the current and expected economic environment including factors such as the softening of the US defence market in the near term.
The growth rates which range from -1% to 10% and at a Group level are consistent with mid-single digit revenue growth assume that demand for the Groups products in the US and in the UK remains broadly in line with the underlying economic environment.
Taking into account the expectation of future market conditions, management believe that the evolution of selling prices and direct costs will reflect past practices: Growth rates assumed after this five year period are based on long-term GDP projections of the primary market for the CGU.
The long term projections used are in the range 1.5% to 2.0% 2013: 2.0% to 2.5% : Cash flows are discounted using the Groups WACC, adjusted for country and currency risks in the principal territories in which the Group operates.
These pre-tax discount rates are within the range 8.3% to 10.5% 2013: 8.1% to 10.7% : Cash flows include the impact of working capital requirements, typically assuming a 90% cash conversion rate: and Cash flows include management charges which allocate central overheads to the CGUs.
If the goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% of the Groups total goodwill carrying value, then the CGU is considered to be individually significant.
These CGUs are as follows: Goodwill carrying value Headroom Pre-tax Projected 5 year Projected GDP CGU Operating segment m m discount rate growth rate growth rate SATCOM Communications and Connectivity 197 322 8.5% 4.4% 1.5% Integrated Electronic Solutions Advanced Electronic Solutions 147 273 8.9% 1.0% 2.0% Sensitivity analysis has been performed on these CGUs and no impairment losses would arise if the discount rate increased by 20%, if the growth rate was zero or if cash flows reduced by 20%.
The Directors have not identified any other likely changes in other significant assumptions that would cause the carrying value of recognised goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount.
The allocation of goodwill arising on the acquisition of Aeroflex is disclosed as provisional and subject to potential adjustment.
A detailed impairment review of the carrying value of this goodwill will be performed in the year ended 31 December 2015 and sensitivity disclosures will be made for individually significant CGUs.
com 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
com Cobham plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 12.
Investment properties m 2014 2013 Carrying amount at 1 January 9.9 10.7 Acquired with business combinations 0.8 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Depreciation 0.3 0.4 Foreign exchange adjustments 0.3 0.1 Carrying amount at 31 December 10.4 9.9 The total fair value of the Groups investment properties has been assessed to be 13.9m 2013: 14.2m.
For 2014, these values are based on Directors estimates using observable market data, taking into account current lease terms.
In 2013 estimated market prices for UK properties were provided by external valuers and the fair value of the US property was a Directors estimate: both were based on observable market data.
Property rental income earned by the Group from its investment properties amounted to 1.4m 2013: 1.9m, which is net of all direct costs associated with the leasing of the properties except depreciation.
The buildings are leased to commercial users on operating leases with terms of between 5 and 25 years, commencing between 1998 and 2013.
Investments in joint ventures and associates The Group has the following interests in joint ventures and associates: Country of Percentage Nature of Reporting incorporation Name shareholding relationship segment or registration Aviation Dfense Service SA 45% Joint venture Aviation Services France Northrop Grumman Cobham Intercoms LLC 50% Joint venture Communications and Connectivity USA Philtech Co. Ltd 30% Associate Communications and Connectivity South Korea The Companys joint ventures and associates all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are indirectly held, and the country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of operation.
The 45% investment in Aviation Dfense Service SA is treated as a joint venture because the governance structure means that the Group has joint control with its partner.
The assets and results of the associated undertaking are not separately disclosed on the basis of materiality.
The address of the principal place of business of Philtech Co. Ltd is Sujeong-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.
Inventories m 2014 2013 Raw materials and consumables 191.8 139.0 Work in progress 221.4 187.0 Finished goods and goods for resale 66.4 36.8 Allowance for obsolescence 48.2 46.9 431.4 315.9 Work in progress includes 59.9m 2013: 72.2m which relates to customer funded engineering development contracts.
During the year 17.4m 2013: 15.2m was provided, 9.3m 2013: 6.1m was utilised and 8.1m 2013: 6.4m of the allowance for obsolescence was reversed.
This allowance is reviewed by management on a regular basis and further amounts are provided or released as considered necessary.
The amounts are generally determined based on factors which include ageing and known demand.
Subsequent events may give rise to these estimates being revised and, consequently, to the reversal of amounts previously provided.
Inventory will be realised within the normal operating cycle of the businesses.
Within the Mission Systems segment, inventory relating to long term contracts expected to be realised after more than 12 months amounts to 18.1m 2013: 39.0m.
com 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Financial instruments The Groups financial assets and liabilities are categorised as follows: Loans and Fair value through Derivatives used Total carrying m Note receivables profit or loss Amortised cost for hedging amount Fair value Financial assets Trade receivables 16 331.4 331.4 331.4 Other receivables 16 120.9 120.9 120.9 Cash and cash equivalents 9 225.6 225.6 225.6 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 22 13.6 13.6 13.6 Other financial assets 6.1 6.1 6.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 18 1,448.3 1,448.3 1,549.1 Trade payables 19 145.0 145.0 145.0 Accruals 133.3 133.3 133.3 Other financial liabilities 19 103.8 103.8 103.8 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 22 32.9 32.9 32.9 Hedging instruments Assets 22 2.7 2.7 2.7 Liabilities 22 3.3 3.3 3.3 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 1,166.3 1,267.1 Financial assets Trade receivables 16 238.3 238.3 238.3 Other receivables 16 76.9 76.9 76.9 Cash and cash equivalents 9 200.7 200.7 200.7 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 22 11.7 11.7 11.7 Other financial assets 6.1 6.1 6.1 Financial liabilities Borrowings 18 654.1 654.1 687.5 Trade payables 19 117.1 117.1 117.1 Accruals 99.6 99.6 99.6 Contingent consideration 19 27.4 27.4 27.4 Other financial liabilities 19 47.8 47.8 47.8 Derivative contracts not hedge accounted 22 8.8 8.8 8.8 Hedging instruments Liabilities 22 3.2 3.2 3.2 Net financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 424.3 457.7 Borrowings are held at amortised cost which equates to fair value except for the Groups fixed rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2014 the fair value of those borrowings was 926.5m 2013: 299.8m compared to their book value of 825.7m 2013: 262.0m.
The fair value of the fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments have been determined by reference to observable market prices and rates.
Cash and cash equivalents include term deposits in Australia equivalent to 6.2m 2013: 6.4m which are held to provide security over the residual value of leased assets under an agreement which expires in 2020.
Other financial assets relate to Cobham plcs investments in connection with the Voyager FSTA project which are held at cost, totalling 6.1m 2013: 6.1m.
Gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are shown in notes 19 and 22.
The total interest income and expense for financial assets and liabilities not held at fair value through profit or loss is as shown in note 5. www.
com Cobham plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Cash and cash equivalents as shown in the Balance Sheet include overdraft balances on currency cash pooling accounts which have been offset as the accounts will be settled on a net basis as described in note 24.
Master netting agreements also cover all bank balances and derivative balances with the same counterparty.
These do not meet the criteria for offsetting because the right to offset is only enforceable on the occurrence of future events such as a default and amounts presented in the Balance Sheet are therefore presented on a gross basis.
If full offsetting by counterparty were to be applied, the resulting net amounts would be as follows: Gross Amounts Amounts as Amounts not set amounts set off in the presented in the off in the Balance Net m before set off Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Sheet amount Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 250.6 25.0 225.6 3.3 222.3 Derivative financial assets 16.3 16.3 14.6 1.7 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 26.3 25.0 1.3 1.3 Derivative financial liabilities 36.2 36.2 16.6 19.6 At 31 December 2014 204.4 204.4 204.4 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 343.9 143.2 200.7 1.4 199.3 Derivative financial assets 11.7 11.7 5.9 5.8 Financial liabilities Bank overdrafts 144.9 143.2 1.7 1.7 Derivative financial liabilities 12.0 12.0 5.6 6.4 At 31 December 2013 198.7 198.7 198.7 Cobham plc www.
com 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
Trade and other receivables Current m 2014 2013 Trade receivables net of provision for impairment 331.4 238.3 Accrued income 47.7 38.2 Loans and other receivables 19.9 16.5 Prepayments 37.6 24.7 436.6 317.7 Non-current m 2014 2013 Accrued income 20.4 Loans and other receivables 32.9 22.2 53.3 22.2 Impairment of trade receivables m 2014 2013 Trade receivables 334.1 239.9 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2.7 1.6 Net trade receivables 331.4 238.3 A significant proportion of the Groups business is directly with government agencies or in respect of large government funded military programmes, where credit risk is considered to remain low.
Information concerning management of credit risk is shown in note 24.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables during the current and prior year were not individually significant.
The credit quality of trade receivables can be analysed as follows: m 2014 2013 Amounts not yet due and not impaired 258.8 186.0 Amounts past due but not impaired 71.3 51.1 Amounts for which full or partial impairment provision has been made 4.0 2.8 At 31 December 334.1 239.9 Trade receivables which are past due but not considered by management to be impaired are aged as follows: m 2014 2013 Less than 1 month overdue 44.1 34.3 1 month overdue 12.1 10.1 2 months overdue 5.6 2.8 3 or more months overdue 9.5 3.9 71.3 51.1 Other classes of financial assets within trade and other receivables do not include any overdue or impaired assets.
com Cobham plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
