Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 2014 2013 COMPASS GROUP PLC Notes m m FIXED ASSETS Investments 2 985 976 CURRENT ASSETS Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year 3 9,830 8,992 Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 3 50 62 Cash at bank and in hand 118 672 Current assets 9,998 9,726 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 4 6,492 6,425 NET CURRENT ASSETS Net current assets 3,506 3,301 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES Total assets less current liabilities 4,491 4,277 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 4 2,513 2,142 Provisions for liabilities and charges 5 28 28 NET ASSETS Net assets 1,950 2,107 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Share capital 8, 9 178 180 Share premium account 9 174 400 Capital redemption reserve 9 293 55 Share-based payment reserve 9 170 162 Profit and loss reserve 9 1,135 1,310 Total equity 1,950 2,107 Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2014 and signed on their behalf by RICHARD COUSINS, Director DOMINIC BLAKEMORE, Director Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 137 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2014 INTRODUCTION G DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its separate financial statements of the Company are set out below: exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company and Group policy A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF PREPARATION is disclosed in the accounting policies to the consolidated financial These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with statements.
applicable UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006 using the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
H DIVIDENDS Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
year in which they are approved in general meeting by the Companys This is discussed in the Finance Directors statement on page 36. shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
B EXEMPTIONS I DEFERRED TAX The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass Group PLC Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on timing differences consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2014. arising from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company computations in periods different from those in which they are included has not presented its own profit and loss account.
The Company has also in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the taken advantage of the exemption from presenting a cash flow statement extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements.
The Company is also recovered.
exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing transactions with other members of Compass Group.
J SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Compass Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payments ended 30 September 2014 contain financial instrument disclosures which to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured comply with FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 not to at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the present separate financial instrument disclosures for the Company.
equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that C CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the first vesting conditions.
time in the year ended 30 September 2014.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
D INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
In the managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and opinion of the directors the value of such investments are not less than behavioural considerations.
shown at the balance sheet date.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is recognised at the current fair value E FOREIGN CURRENCY determined at each balance sheet date.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses arising on The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its retranslation are included in the income statement for the period.
subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the charge F BORROWINGS see note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 138
