NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 13.
To re-elect Sir Ian Robinson as a director of the Company.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 14.
To re-elect Paul Walsh as a director of the Company.
T o reappoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under 16.
To authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or becomes, otherwise transferred all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this send this Notice and the accompanying documents to the purchaser Resolution relates to: or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the 17.1 make donations to political parties or independent election purchaser or transferee.
candidates: 17.2 make donations to political organisations other than political parties: and 17.3 incur political expenditure, Notice is hereby given that the fourteenth Annual General during the period commencing on the date of this Resolution and Meeting of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, in the Churchill Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II provided that any such donations and expenditure made by the Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed 100,000 per SW1P 3EE on Thursday 5 February 2015 at 12 noon in order company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and to transact the following business: the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 100,000.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of Any terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 of which Resolutions 20 to 22 will be proposed as special resolutions and the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts 18.
To approve the amendments to the rules of the Compass Group PLC and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP produced in draft to this 30 September 2014. meeting and for the purposes of identification initialled by the Chairman and to authorise the directors to adopt the changes to 2.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Policy set out on pages the LTIP and to do all things necessary to implement the changes.
62 to 68 of the Directors Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 19.
19.1 To renew the power conferred on the directors by Article 12 of 30 September 2014, such Remuneration Policy to take effect from the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the date on which this Resolution is passed.
the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report other 4 May 2016: and for that period the section 551 amount shall than the Remuneration Policy referred to in Resolution 2 above be 59,128,125. contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 30 September 2014.
19.2 I n addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by 59,128,125, for a period expiring at the end of the next 4.
T o declare a final dividend of 17.7 pence per ordinary share Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2014. which this Resolution is passed, provided that the directors 5.
To elect Carol Arrowsmith as a director of the Company.
power in respect of such latter amount shall only be used in connection with a rights issue: 6.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as a director of the Company.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as 7.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a director of the Company.
may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 8.
To re-elect Gary Green as a director of the Company.
2 to holders of other equity securities as required by the 9.
To re-elect Andrew Martin as a director of the Company.
rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 10.
To re-elect John Bason as a director of the Company.
and that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 11.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a director of the Company.
make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal with 12.
To re-elect Don Robert as a director of the Company.
fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
See this Report and our full Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
com ar14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 146 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS 20.
T o renew, subject to the passing of Resolution 19 above, the power RESOLUTION 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS conferred on the directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of The directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting Association, such authority to apply until the conclusion of the next AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2014. this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 4 May 2016 and for that period the section 561 amount is 8,868,688.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant Shareholders are requested to approve the Remuneration Policy.
to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, to The Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 62 to 68 of the Directors make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of that Remuneration Report contained within the 2014 Annual Report 5 Act of ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each in the capital of the and Accounts.
Company subject to the following conditions: In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act the CA 2006, 21.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby a separate Resolution on the Remuneration Policy part of the Directors authorised to be purchased is 166,950,000: Remuneration Report is required to be put to a vote by shareholders.
21.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid The vote is binding which means that payments cannot be made under 5 for each ordinary share is 10 8 pence: the Policy until it has been approved by shareholders.
21.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid The Policy Report must be put to shareholders at least every three years, for each ordinary share in respect of a share contracted to be unless during that time it is to be changed.
The Company currently purchased on any day, does not exceed the higher of 1 an intends to submit the Policy for approval by shareholders every amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market three years.
quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days RESOLUTION 3 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is made In accordance with section 439 of the CA 2006, shareholders are and 2 the higher of the price of the last independent trade and requested to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 59 to 76 of the derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: and 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
21.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of the next Annual RESOLUTION 4 FINAL DIVIDEND General Meeting of the Company or 4 August 2016, whichever The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2014 will be paid on is the earlier except in relation to the purchase of ordinary 23 February 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business shares, the contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry on 23 January 2015, subject to shareholder approval.
of this authority and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
RESOLUTIONS 5 TO 14 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 22.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of the Company, Biographical details of all the directors standing for election or other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear re-election appear on pages 46 and 47 of the 2014 Annual Report.
working days notice, provided that this authority shall expire at the In line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company Carol Arrowsmith, who was appointed by the Board since the date of after the date of the passing of this Resolution.
the last AGM, will submit herself for election by shareholders.
Details Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
of Mrs Arrowsmiths appointment are given on page 50.
By Order of the Board The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the directors to retire by rotation each year and no director may serve for more than MARK WHITE three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
However, in General Counsel and Company Secretary accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all the 19 December 2014 directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
Registered Office: Having conducted an evaluation during the year, it is the view of the Compass House Chairman that the performance of each of the directors continues to be Guildford Street effective and that each director demonstrates commitment to the role Chertsey and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
Surrey KT16 9BQ Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 RESOLUTIONS 15 AND 16 AUDITOR During the year, following a competitive tender process, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that KPMG LLP be appointed as the external auditor and to fill the casual vacancy in the office of auditor.
The auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor will end at the conclusion of the AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for reappointment.
It is normal practice for a companys directors to be authorised to agree how much the auditor should be paid and Resolution 16 grants this authority to the directors.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 147 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESOLUTION 17 DONATIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES issued ordinary share capital in connection with a rights issue in favour It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
However, it of ordinary shareholders with a nominal value of up to 59,128,125 5 is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the Company and representing 556,500,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each.
Such its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the wide definition of additional authority will be valid until the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
matters constituting political donations and expenditure in the CA 2006.
If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority permitted Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must first be by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all directors stand for approved by shareholders and will be disclosed in next years Annual re-election.
The Companys current practice is that all directors submit Report.
This Resolution, if passed, will renew the directors authority themselves for re-election each year in accordance with the Code, until the AGM to be held in 2016 when the directors intend to renew notwithstanding the provisions set out in the Guidelines.
this authority to make donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate The total authorisation sought by Resolution 19 is equal to amount of 100,000 for the Company and for subsidiary companies.
approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 December 2014, being the last practicable date prior RESOLUTION 18 AMENDMENT TO LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN to publication of this Notice.
This Resolution seeks approval for the following changes to the Compass Resolutions 1 to 19 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and require that more Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP to reflect the than half of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report see Resolution 2 above : RESOLUTION 20 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS To increase the individual limit for the market value of shares subject to If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash awards which can be granted to executive directors in a financial year other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must first from 200% to a maximum of 400% of annual basic salary the latter offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing multiplier to be used only in exceptional circumstances with the normal holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought percentage being 250% of annual basic salary in the case of the Group by the directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for cash Chief Executive and 200% for the other executive directors: without offering them to existing shareholders.
To renew and extend the circumstances in which malus or clawback can Resolution 20 seeks to renew the directors authority to issue equity be applied to awards made under the LTIP so that the provisions apply securities of the Company for cash without application of pre-emption both before an award vests and for the three years after vesting and apply rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association in various circumstances, such as serious misconduct of a participant, and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Other than in connection with a rights, including where the facts arise after termination of employment, with the scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this intention that the remedies are widened to include lapsing awards which Resolution would be limited to a maximum nominal amount of have not vested and forfeiting of vested awards with the right to reclaim 8,868,688. amounts from the affected participant: 5 To permit awards to be made which increase in line with dividends paid This represents 83,470,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each in the by the Company on its ordinary shares: capital of the Company, which is approximately 5% of the Companys To clarify the rules in respect of the use of existing rather than new issue issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2014 being the last shares to satisfy awards: and practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The authority To enable the Remuneration Committee to impose a holding period would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, requirement of up to five years on participants whose awards have vested, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2016 subject to the realisation of vested awards to discharge tax and social or on 4 May 2016, if earlier.
Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share schemes The rules of the LTIP showing the proposed amendments are available and any share dividend alternatives, the directors have no current plans for inspection before and during the AGM, as noted on page 146 of this to utilise either of the authorities sought by Resolutions 19 and 20, Notice of Meeting.
although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they RESOLUTION 19 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company has not The purpose of Resolution 19 is to renew the directors power to issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis allot shares.
Resolution 19.1 seeks to grant the directors authority to over the last three years and the Board confirms its intention to follow allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association best practice set out in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum which provides that usage of this authority in excess of 7.5% of the nominal amount of 59,128,125.
This represents 556,500,000 ordinary Companys issued share capital in a rolling three year period would not 5 shares of 10 8 pence each in the capital of the Company, which is take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the RESOLUTION 21 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES publication of this Notice.
The Company does not currently hold This Resolution authorises the directors to make limited on market any shares as treasury shares.
The authority would, unless previously purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited to a renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, remain in force up to maximum of 166,950,000 shares just under 10% of the issued ordinary the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2016, or share capital as at 1 December 2014, being the last practicable date 4 May 2016, whichever is earlier.
prior to the publication of this Notice and details the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
The authority In accordance with the Investment Management Association Allotment conferred by this Resolution will expire at the conclusion of the Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 19.2 seeks to grant the directors Companys next AGM or 18 months from the passing of this Resolution, authority to allot approximately a further one third of the Companys whichever is the earlier.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 148 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased as IMPORTANT INFORMATION treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used PROXIES for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The authority to be sought i A s hareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint a by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of the Company to Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, speak and vote at the are held as treasury shares and no voting rights will be attached to them.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be Shares held as treasury shares will be treated as if cancelled.
On 27 November 2013, the Company announced its intention to Proxies may only be appointed by: commence a 500 million share repurchase programme, to be executed over the 12 month period to the end of 2014.
The programme was completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with temporarily suspended following announcement on 14 May 2014 of the this Notice to PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 1 billion Return of Cash to shareholders and associated Share Capital BR3 4ZF: Consolidation until after completion of this transaction on 29 July 2014. going to www.
com and following the instructions The 500 million share repurchase programme recommenced on for electronic submission provided there: or 31 July 2014 and is now expected to be completed during 2015. having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal members.
Beyond this programme, the directors have no present intention of Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear website exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but www.
com CREST for further information.
they consider it desirable to provide maximum flexibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
The directors would only purchase Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder from shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect would be to result in an attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, if you do attend increase in earnings per share and would benefit shareholders generally.
the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be treated as revoked.
As at 1 December 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided solely publication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe for ordinary for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the appointment shares issued by the Company outstanding over approximately of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit their voting 19,724,400 shares which represent 1.18% of the Companys issued directions electronically.
You may not use any electronic address ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the provided in the Notice of this Meeting to communicate with the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
in full, these options would represent 1.31% of the Companys issued ii T o be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed in accordance ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
with the instructions and received by the Companys registrar by 12 noon on Tuesday 3 February 2015.
RESOLUTION 22 NOTICE OF MEETINGS OTHER THAN ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to call general To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 working days notice.
appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must However, under the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon on Tuesday the Regulations, all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, 3 February 2015.
Please note, however, that proxy messages cannot unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, and the Company be sent through CREST on weekends, public holidays or after has met the requirements for electronic voting under the Regulations.
For the purpose of this deadline, the This Resolution seeks to renew the authority granted by shareholders at time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the last years AGM which preserved the Companys ability to call general timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 working days notice, such authority from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST to be effective until the Companys next AGM, when a similar resolution personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those will be proposed.
The directors confirm that the shorter notice period CREST members that have appointed voting service provider s would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where flexibility is should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
advantage of shareholders as a whole.
An electronic voting facility will be For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and made available to all shareholders for any meeting held on such notice.
system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may treat as Resolutions 20 to 22 will be proposed as special resolutions and require that at least invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances three quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution for it to be passed.
set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
RECOMMENDATION iii P ursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities The directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best interests Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Company of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of all Resolutions, as the Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 3 February 2015 directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings.
or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 3 February 2015 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 149 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOMINATED PERSONS DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION Copies of the rules of the LTIP as prospectively amended, service Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information rights agreements of the executive directors, the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, the directors deeds of indemnity and the Register Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be of Directors Interests will be available for inspection during normal business hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until the date of the appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
KT16 9BQ, and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
A copy of the rules of the LTIP as prospectively amended will also be The rights described in that note can only be exercised by shareholders available during normal business hours at the offices of Freshfields of the Company.
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS.
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND AGM BUSINESS TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS As at 1 December 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements which, broadly, requires a minimum publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital comprised 1,669,582,918 ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are of 100 shareholders holding an average of 1,000 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys issued share capital, entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present has one vote have the right to require the Company i to give to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the AGM, notice of a resolution and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary shareholder which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the AGM and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the AGM any who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter taken by way of a poll.
may properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2014 were resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of 1,669,582,918. inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON WEBSITE request may be in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the The following information is available on the Companys website at resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in www.
com: the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 26 December 2014, being the i the matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: ii t he total voting rights and number of shares of each class in respect of date six clear weeks before the AGM, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM: iii shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the AGM: setting out the grounds for the request.
and RIGHT TO ASK QUESTIONS iv shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business received Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right to ask by the Company after 19 December 2014. questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting and for THE AGM these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential information, The doors of The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre will open at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
if the answer has already been published on the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting If you are planning to attend the AGM, The Queen Elizabeth II that the question be answered.
Conference Centre is located in the City of Westminster.
Please see the map opposite.
Details of how to get to the venue may be found WEBSITE PUBLICATION OF AUDIT CONCERNS at www.
Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at the AGM relating ATTENDING THE AGM to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card with and the conduct of the audit that are to be submitted to the Meeting or you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the AGM any circumstances connected to the Companys auditor who ceased to hold and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to bring this office since the last AGM.
The Company will publish the statement if Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2014 so that you can refer to sufficient requests have been received in accordance with section 527 2 them at the AGM.
All joint shareholders may attend and speak at the of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on the Register of holding an average of 1,000 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the Company, and subject at least 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the to sufficient seating capacity, a shareholder may enter with one guest, request.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such provided that the shareholder and their guest register to enter the AGM website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such request.
Where a statement is published, the Company will forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish on its website.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 150 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information Great College Street Queen Annes Gate.
Old Queen Street QUESTIONS There is wheelchair access.
Anyone accompanying a shareholder in need All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any shareholder with a questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish disability has any questions regarding attendance at the AGM, please to ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at the Meeting 31 January 2015. if it is not considered to be in the interests of the Company or the good Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company will order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of sensitive not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons security, information.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative to safety or the good order of the AGM.
answer a specific question after the Meeting or refer the questioner to the Companys website.
Please ensure that mobile phones are switched off throughout the AGM.
Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light refreshments VOTING AT THE AGM will be served afterwards.
The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more accurate SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders by ensuring Capita Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
If you have that every vote is recognised, including the votes of shareholders who are any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you should unable to attend the Meeting but who have appointed a proxy for the contact Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for each share held.
After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked to cast your vote.
All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT ENQUIRIES BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary Receipt and added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes will be displayed at the Meeting.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Compass American Depositary Shares, you should contact BNY Mellon, The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against each Shareowner Services, Computershare, P. O.
Box 30170, College Station Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, TX 77842-3170, USA.
will be announced at the Meeting and published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT disclose the number of votes withheld.
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and proxy vote.
the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting as he and any third party to which it discloses the data including the or she decides on any other business, which may validly come before the Companys Registrar may process your personal data for the purposes AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST service.
Details of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either electronically or on obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
PUBLISHED INFORMATION VENUE ARRANGEMENTS If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may be subject to Report 2014 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, examination.
Please note that electronic devices such as cameras and Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company recording equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
A cloakroom Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, will be available to deposit coats and bulky items.
A sign language interpreter will attend the AGM and a sound Our 2014 Annual Report is available at www.
amplification hearing loop will be available in the meeting room.
The Annual Report including this Notice, can be downloaded in PDF format.
St. Jamess Park Queen Elizabeth II Main entrance Westminster Conference Centre Birdcage Walk Parliament Square Lewisham Street St. Margarets Houses of Parliament Westminster Abbey St. Jamess Park New Scotland Yard Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 151 Old Pye Street King Charles Street Great George Street Westminster Bridge Parker St. Tothill Street Broadway To Victoria Station Broad Sanctuary Victoria Street Broadway Dartmouth Street Horse Guards Rd.
Matthew Great Smith Street Storeys Gate Tufton Street St. Margaret Street Parliament Street Victoria Embankment Abingdon Street FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the food and support services markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 152 This Report is printed on a combination of Revive 100 Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks White Silk and Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated.
and their and printing technology.
Revive 100 White Silk is produced using 100% recycled Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, ISO 14001, EMAS waste, the pulp is bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free and FSC certified.
Revive 100 Premium White Uncoated is produced using 100% post-consumer waste, the pulp The images in this document are representative of the is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF services provided by Compass Group PLC and its process.
Both materials are Forest Stewardship Council subsidiaries and partners.
FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 environmental management standard.
Designed and produced by COMPASS GROUP PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No.
