Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The financial statements of the major subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective businesses.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is no longer held by the Group.
Where the Group ceases to hold control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the part of the reporting year during which the Group held control.
Non-controlling interests represents the portion of profit loss, gains losses and net assets relating to subsidiaries that are not attributable to members of the Company.
The non-controlling interest balance is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are consistent with those in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2013, except for the adoption of amended revised and new accounting standards with effect from 1 April 2013 and new accounting policies relating to Merger accounting, Share-based payments and Earnings per share as detailed below: IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income amended This amendment relates only to disclosure and requires the Group to present items in other comprehensive income OCI based on whether they can potentially be subsequently classified to profit or loss.
Taxation associated with items presented before taxation must also be shown separately in OCI, depending on whether or not they can potentially be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised The key impact of this revision has been to replace the separate assumptions for expected return on schemes assets and discounting of schemes liabilities, and replace them with one single discount rate for the net surplus or deficit.
This net interest income cost is measured based on the schemes discount rate.
Asset returns greater or less than the accounting discount rate are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI.
The effect of this change has been to recognise a net pension interest credit of 30 million for the year ended 31 March 2013, compared with the 34 million recognised previously in the 2012-13 Annual Report.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement This new standard applies to existing IFRSs that require or permit fair value measurements or disclosures.
This standard requires additional disclosures but has no impact on the financial performance or position of the Group.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 Cycle These improvements clarify the requirements of IFRSs and eliminate inconsistencies within and between standards.
The only impact on the Group of these improvements will be when the Group makes distributions to holders of equity instruments and the recognition of income tax relating to the distribution and associated transaction costs will be accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and not IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Merger transaction of Royal Mail plc and Royal Mail Group Limited As part of the Group reorganisation prior to the Initial Public Offering, Royal Mail plc acquired the entire share capital of Royal Mail Group Limited through issuance of its shares to the then parent Company, Royal Mail Holdings plc subsequently renamed Postal Services Holding Company plc on 11 September 2013.
As there were no changes to the shareholder group at the time of this transaction and Royal Mail plc is not a business, this transaction did not classify as a business combination as defined under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The consolidated financial statements of Royal Mail plc have therefore been prepared as a continuation of the existing Group.
Share-based payment equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of equity instruments at the date on which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of service conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Earnings per share EPS Basic earnings per share EPS from continuing operations is calculated by dividing the profit or loss from continuing operations adjusted for non-controlling interests share of profit by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
The Group EPS is calculated in the same way except that it also includes profit or loss from discontinued operations.
Diluted EPS is only relevant if the Group has potential ordinary shares e. g. financial liabilities or equity instruments, including preference shares that are convertible into Ordinary Shares, options including employee share options and shares that would be issued in satisfaction of certain conditions that result from contractual arrangements.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 119 Significant accounting policies continued Key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical accounting judgements Pensions The value of the pension plan liabilities is determined by long-term actuarial assumptions which include inflation rates and mortality rates.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group exercises its judgement in determining the assumptions to be adopted, after discussion with its actuary.
Deferred revenue The Group recognises advance customer payments on its balance sheet see note 26 relating to stamps and meter credits purchased by customers but not used at the balance sheet date.
The valuation of this deferred revenue is based on a number of different estimation and sampling methods using external specialist resource as appropriate, the results of which are reviewed by management in order to make a judgement of the carrying amount of the accrual.
The total accrual is held within current trade and other payables but a portion which cannot be measured will relate to stamps and meter credits used one year or more after the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation Assessment of the deferred tax asset requires an estimation of future profitability.
Such estimation is inherently uncertain in a market subject to various competitive pressures.
Should estimates of future profitability change in future years, the amount of deferred tax recognised will also change accordingly.
The carrying values of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are included within note 6.
Provisions Due to the nature of provisions, a significant part of their determination is based upon estimates and or judgements concerning the future.
Restructuring provisions, including for redundancy and property costs, are derived based upon the most recent business plan for direct expenditure where plans are sufficiently detailed and appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken.
This includes the expected number of employees impacted, rate of compensation per employee, rental costs and expected period of properties remaining vacant and dilapidation costs.
The industrial diseases claims provision is based on the best information available as at the year end, including independent expert advice.
Revenue Revenue reported in the income statement is net of value added tax and comprises turnover which principally relates to the rendering of services as follows: UK Parcels, International & Letters Account revenue is derived from specific contracts and recognised when the delivery of an item is complete.
Prepaid revenue mainly relating to stamp and meter income is recognised when the sale is made, adjusted to reflect a value of stamp and meter credits held but not used by the customer.
General Logistics Systems Revenue is derived from specific contracts and is recognised at the time of delivery.
Distribution and conveyance costs Distribution and conveyance costs relate to non-people costs incurred in transporting and delivering mail.
These include conveyance by rail, road, sea and air, together with costs incurred by international mail carriers and Parcelforce Worldwide delivery operators and GLS.
These costs are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
Specific items The Group previously disclosed items that in managements judgement needed to be shown separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence as exceptional items.
There are, however, other items of income expense, that management now discloses separately, which do not ordinarily meet the definition of exceptional items e. g. finance income on the sale of pension escrow gilts, pension interest and elements of taxation.
The Group decided, therefore, not to continue using the exceptional items definition and, instead, to refer to items of income expense that are considered as requiring separate disclosure as specific items.
This new definition has been introduced on the basis that the financial results excluding these specific items are consistent with how financial and operational performance is measured by management in providing a meaningful analysis of the Groups trading results and cash flows.
These specific items may not be comparable to similarly termed measures used by other companies.
Employee shares scheme The Group operates an equity settled, share-based compensation plan under which the Group receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments shares of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognised as an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding credit entry in equity, as per the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The total amount expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of shares is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 120 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Operating profit Operating profit is the profit arising from the normal, recurring operations of the business and after charging operating specific items defined above.
It excludes the non-operating specific items for profit or loss on disposal of businesses and profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment.
These items are not part of the normal recurring operations of the business but are material, so are presented separately on the face of the income statement to allow a better understanding of financial performance in the reporting year, in comparison to prior years.
Income taxation and deferred taxation The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the reporting year as adjusted for items that are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income taxation assets and liabilities are recognised for all taxable and deductible temporary differences and unused taxation assets and losses except: Initial recognition of goodwill: The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit and loss: Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interest in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and Deferred taxation assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred taxation assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and increased or reduced to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow them to be utilised.
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are measured at the taxation rates that are expected to apply to the period when the taxation asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Current and deferred taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity, otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
Segment information The Groups operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided, with each segment representing a business unit that offers different products and serves largely different markets.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA before transformation costs.
There is no aggregation of operating segments.
The operating units that make up the three operating segments are detailed in note 2.
The operating segments comprise operations in both the UK and other parts of Europe, the latter being relevant to the GLS business segment.
The UK operations include the remaining two operating segments plus the Other segments.
Segment revenues have been attributed to the respective countries based on the location of the customer.
Transfer prices between segments are set on a basis of charges reached through negotiation with the respective business units that form part of the segments.
There are no differences in the measurement of the respective segments profit loss and the consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRSs.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is recognised at cost, including directly attributable costs in bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis by reference to net book value and to the remaining useful economic lives of assets and their estimated residual values.
The useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
The lives assigned to major categories of property, plant and equipment are: Land and buildings: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings The shorter of the period of the lease, 50 years or the estimated remaining useful life Plant and machinery 3-15 years Motor vehicles and trailers 2-12 years Fixtures and equipment 2-15 years Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 121 Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Business combinations on or after 29 March 2004 are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the purchase method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill and is not amortised.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising from business combinations is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
For the purpose of such impairment reviews, goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash generating units.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included in the cost of those entities and therefore not reported in the balance sheet as goodwill.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets acquired separately or development costs that meet the criteria to be capitalised are initially recognised at cost and are assessed to have either a finite or indefinite useful life.
Those with a finite life are amortised over their useful life and those with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
Amortisation of intangible assets with finite lives is charged annually to the income statement on a straight-line basis as follows: Customer listings 3 to 4 years Software 3 to 6 years Investments in associates The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates, less any impairment in value.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of post-tax profits from the associates.
Any goodwill arising on acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is included in the carrying amount and not amortised.
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Following their classification as held for sale, non-current assets including those in a disposal group are not depreciated.
The results of operations disposed during the reporting year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income up to the date of disposal.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or that meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as a single line which comprises the post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation along with the post-tax gain or loss recognised on the remeasurement to fair value less costs to sell or on disposal of the assets or disposal groups constituting discontinued operations.
Impairment reviews Unless otherwise disclosed in these accounting policies, assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether such indications exist.
Where appropriate, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets net realisable value and its value in use.
Leases Finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item have passed to the Group, are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and capital element of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 122 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Leases continued Leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are retained by the lessor, are classified as operating leases and rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
A leasehold land payment is an upfront payment to acquire a long-term leasehold interest in land.
This payment is stated at cost and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoice amount less an allowance for any non-collectable amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
Financial instruments Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are classified as: financial assets at fair value through the income statement held for trading : held to maturity investments: loans and receivables or available for sale financial assets as appropriate.
Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement or financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each reporting date.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transactional costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on their classification as follows: Loans and receivables Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments, that are not quoted on an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through the income statement or available for sale, are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the three preceding categories.
After initial recognition, interest is taken to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and the assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised, or until the investment is deemed to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement held for trading Derivatives liabilities are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
They are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, non-derivative financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits cash equivalents with an original maturity date of three months or less.
In addition, the Group uses money market funds as a readily available source of cash, and these funds are also categorised as cash equivalents.
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
Cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.
Financial assets pension escrow investments Financial assets pension escrow investments comprise cash at bank, conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities, Treasury bills and a money market fund investment established to provide security to the Royal Mail Senior Executive Pension Plan RMSEPP in support of a deficit recovery plan agreed with the Trustee in 2013.
Conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills are classified as available for sale financial instruments on the basis that they are quoted investments that are not held for trading and may be disposed of prior to maturity.
Financial assets other investments Financial assets other investments comprise short-term deposits other investments with HM Government, local government or banks with an original maturity of three months or more.
Short-term deposits are classified as loans and receivables financial instruments.
Financial liabilities interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 123 Significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities obligations under finance leases All obligations under finance leases are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative instruments such as foreign currency contracts in order to manage the risk profile of any underlying risk exposure of the Group, in line with the Groups treasury management policies.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially stated at fair value.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable either to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or to a highly probable forecast transaction.
In relation to cash flow hedges to hedge the interest rate, foreign exchange or commodity price risk of firm commitments that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to relate to an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, then at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same reporting year in which the hedged firm commitment affects the net profit loss, for example when the hedged transaction actually occurs.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement in the period.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement for the reporting year.
Fair value measurement of financial instruments The fair value of quoted investments including conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Hence the conventional gilt edged securities, index-linked gilt edged securities and Treasury bills are within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy as defined within IFRS 13.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: and discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Specifically, in the absence of quoted market prices, derivatives are valued by using quoted forward prices for the underlying commodity currency and discounted using quoted interest rates both as at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Hence derivative assets and liabilities are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as defined within IFRS 13.
For the purposes of disclosing the fair value of investments held at amortised cost in the balance sheet, in the absence of quoted market prices, fair values are calculated by discounting the future cash flows of the financial instrument using quoted equivalent interest rates as at close of business on the balance sheet date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate pre-taxation rate.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The pension assets for the defined benefit schemes are measured at fair value.
Liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term.
The resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
Full actuarial valuations are carried out at intervals not normally exceeding three years as determined by the Trustees and, with appropriate updates and accounting adjustments at each balance sheet date, form the basis of the deficit disclosed.
All active members of defined benefit schemes are contracted out of the earningsrelated part of the State Second pension scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and any gains and losses arising from settlements, curtailments and past service costs.
The amount resulting from applying the Plans discount rate for liabilities to the pension surplus at the beginning of the reporting year is recognised as net pension interest in the income statement.
Due to the substantial change in the RMPP surplus resulting from the Pensions Reform, the net pension interest was recalculated at the half year to 69 million 2013 30 million for the full year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any deferred tax movement associated with the actuarial gains and losses is also recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
For defined contribution schemes, the Groups contributions are charged to operating profit within people costs in the period to which the contributions relate.
Overseas subsidiaries make separate arrangements for the provision of pensions and other post-retirement benefits.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 124 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of Royal Mail plc is Sterling.
The functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries in Europe is mainly the Euro.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The trading results of foreign operations are translated at the average rates of exchange for the reporting year, being a reasonable approximation to the actual transaction rate.
The exchange rate differences arising on the translation, since the date of transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to the Foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currently hedge accounting is not claimed for any monetary assets and liabilities.
All differences are therefore taken to the income statement, except for differences on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment occurs, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historic cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined.
Accounting standards issued but not yet applied The following new and revised accounting standards are relevant to the Group and are in issue but were not effective and in some instances have not yet been adopted by the EU at the balance sheet date: IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits: Employee contributions IAS 27 Amended Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 Amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 36 Amended Impairment of Assets IAS 39 Amended Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and Annual Improvements 2011-2013 The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial performance or position of the Group in future periods.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 125
