Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The Group and Company financial statements of Cranswick plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2014 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Davey and Mark Bottomley.
Cranswick plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in note 2.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of Cranswick plc, both consolidated and Company, have been prepared under IFRS as adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied throughout the year and the preceding year, is as follows: Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries.
The results of undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Share-based payments Note 24 measurement of share-based payments Goodwill Note 11 measurement of the recoverable amount of cash generating units containing goodwill Provisions Note 21 judgements in relation to amounts provided Pensions Note 25 pension scheme actuarial assumptions Acquisitions Note 14 fair values on acquisition Trade receivable provisions Note 17 provision for impairment of trade receivables New standards and interpretations applied The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment 1 July 2012 IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IFRS May 2012 Annual Improvements 1 January 2013 74 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014
