Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements A Group Risk Committee monitors the risk areas within the Group and end of the current statutory audit partners five year term as lead reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee is chaired audit partner.
by the Finance Director and includes other senior executives covering the commercial, operational, technical, information technology, The Audit Committee also approves the terms of engagement engineering, health and safety, environmental and financial functions and remuneration of the external auditors and monitors their of the business.
Internal audit and the Company Secretary also attend independence.
The team identifies the key business risks within their functions, considers the financial and operational implications and Effectiveness of the external audit process assesses the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate During the year, the Committee undertook a review of Ernst & Youngs these risks.
Internal Audit completes a rolling program of reviews of site performance and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The risk registers, to challenge completeness and accuracy, and highlights assessment as to the effectiveness was conducted through an external any key issues back to the Group Risk Committee.
audit questionnaire with the Audit Committee members and the Groups senior finance management team, the results of which were A summary of the findings was reported to and reviewed by the Audit reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee and with the auditors.
Committee and the Board and this, along with the Boards direct The Committee also gave consideration to Ernst & Youngs experience involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal and expertise, the extent to which the audit plan had been met, its and the budgeting process, enabled the Audit Committee to review robustness and perceptiveness with regard to key accounting and and report to the Board on the effectiveness of internal control.
audit judgements, and the content of its audit reports.
Following its review the Audit Committee reported to the Board The Committee remains satisfied with Ernst & Youngs performance and is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would impact that it was not aware of any significant deficiencies, or material the effectiveness of the external audit process.
weaknesses, in the system of internal control and that the business maintains a sound risk management control system.
Auditor independence The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate Internal Audit relationship with the external auditors through the Audit Committee, The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance whose terms of reference include an obligation to consider and and effectiveness of the Companys internal audit activities.
The keep under review the degree of work undertaken by the external Groups Internal Audit function includes Company employees auditor, other than the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity supported by a third party provider, currently Grant Thornton, which and independence is safeguarded.
There is an established policy in provides specialist advice and resource where necessary.
The role place concerning the types of non-audit services the external auditors of Internal Audit is to advise management and to report to the Audit should not carry out to avoid compromising their independence and Committee on the extent to which systems of internal control are these include internal accounting or other financial services, executive effective and to provide independent and objective assurance that or management roles or functions, and remuneration consultancy.
the processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed and In addition, the Chair of the Audit Committee is consulted prior to managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
awarding to the external auditors any non-audit services in excess of 20,000.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan and received regular updates on progress in meeting the plan During the year the Audit Committee reviewed and considered the objectives at each of its meetings during the year.
The internal audit following factors in assessing the objectivity and independence of Ernst approach is risk based and takes into account the overall Group risk & Young LLP: framework, as well as risks specific to individual operations.
The plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal i the auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring audit findings together with responses from management were independence, including those to ensure that the partners considered by the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
and staff have no personal or business relationships with the The Audit Committee also reviewed progress by management in Group, other than those in the normal course of business addressing the issues identified on a timely basis.
The Audit Committee permitted by UK ethical guidance: undertook its annual review of the extent and effectiveness of the work ii the auditors policies for the rotation of the lead partner, of the Internal Audit function.
every five years, and key audit personnel.
The current Senior Statutory Audit Partner was selected by Ernst & Young in 2012 External auditors and the current senior manager has been in place since 2008: Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups auditor since 1972 following iii the nature of non-audit work undertaken during the year the take-over of a local Hull based practice.
The Audit Committee and its approval in accordance with the Audit Committees assesses annually the qualification, expertise, resources and guidelines for ensuring independence: and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness of the iv a report from Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they have audit process.
adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Committee periodically reviews the tendering of the external audit function, the last such tender being in 2008.
Subject to ongoing satisfactory performance of the external auditors, the Committee expects to carry out another tendering exercise in 2017 following the Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 41 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out below: Non-audit fees 000 Tax compliance services 75 Tax advisory services 46 Other services 158 Total non-audit fees 279 Total audit fees 175 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 1.6 : 1 The work undertaken by the external auditors during the year Following consideration of the above matters relating to the and the safeguards considered by the Audit Committee to ensure performance and independence of the external auditors at a meeting independence included the following: of the Audit Committee in May 2014, a recommendation was made to the Board for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the i The auditors provide tax advice.
Their audit objectivity and Companys external auditors to be proposed to Shareholders at the independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate 2014 Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its ii Ernst & Young were engaged to advise the Company on a behalf by: number of corporate transactions.
Following a tender, for this type of work, carried out in 2011 12, and given the nature of the work during the following years it was concluded, after careful consideration and following reports and discussions with the Finance Director and the senior management team, that Ernst & Young were best placed to carry out this work.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate corporate transactions partner John Worby and prior approval by the Chair of the Audit Committee on a Chair of the Audit Committee case by case basis.
19 May 2014 The Audit Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the policy of awarding non-audit services is kept under review to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between ensuring that the Group realises cost-effective benefits from accumulated knowledge, and experience of, Ernst & Young whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
During this last year the Audit Committee was concerned that the level of non-audit fees earned by Ernst & Young was increasing due to the continuing corporate activity being undertaken by the Group and that, as a result, unless some action was taken, the ratio of nonaudit to audit fees paid to Ernst & Young would consistently be above one to one.
It therefore took the decision to carry out a tendering exercise for the Groups tax compliance services.
This process involved , KPMG, Grant Thornton, BDO and Baker Tilly.
On 31 January 2014  was appointed to provide tax compliance services to the Group.
As a result the non-audit fees earned by Ernst & Young should reduce accordingly.
42 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 43
