REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Long term incentive plan LTIP Recruitment policy The Remuneration Committee awards options under the LTIP scheme The recruitment policy is that new Directors will be entitled to in order to ensure that Executive Directors and senior management participate in the short-term and long-term incentive plans on the are involved in the longer-term success of the Group.
Options can only same basis as existing Directors and their level of pay may be based on be exercised if certain performance criteria are achieved by the Group.
their increasing role and responsibilities and in line with market rates.
50 per cent of the options granted are subject to an earnings per Overall policy share EPS target measured against average annual increases The Groups policy is that the overall remuneration package offered in the Retail Price Index RPI over a three year period.
The EPS should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high target allows 25 per cent of the shares subject to the target to be quality executives whilst giving consideration to salary levels in similar issued at nil cost at an average annual outperformance above RPI sized quoted companies in the sector and in the region.
Their of 3 per cent and 100 per cent of the shares at an average annual share-based awards LTIP are aligned with the long-term progress outperformance of 7 per cent with outperformance between of the Group and in line with the Shareholders interests.
The bonus 3 and 7 per cent rewarded pro rata.
award is linked to the performance of the business based on key financial metrics.
50 per cent are aligned to a total shareholder return TSR target measured against a comparable group of food companies Service contracts over a three year period.
The TSR target allowed 30 per cent of The Remuneration Committees current policy is not to enter into the shares subject to the target to be issued at nil cost at the employment contracts with any element of notice period in excess of 50th percentile and 100 per cent at the 75th percentile with one year.
Accordingly, the following Executive Directors have a one year performance between the 50th and 75th percentiles rewarded rolling contract: Adam Couch commencing 1 May 2006 revised pro-rata.
1 August 2012, Mark Bottomley from 1 June 2009 and Jim Brisby from 26 July 2010.
For early termination the Remuneration Committee will consider the circumstances including any duty to mitigate loss and The comparison companies used by Cranswick are: determine compensation payments accordingly.
Associated British Foods plc, A G Barr plc, Britvic plc, Carrs Milling Industries plc, Dairy Crest Group plc, Devro plc, Greencore Group The service contract for Martin Davey includes a one year notice period plc, Hilton Food Group plc, Kerry Group plc, McBride plc, Premier from 1 May 2006 except in the case of a takeover of the Company Foods plc, Robert Wiseman Dairies plc to the 2011 offer as nowhen the notice period is two years for the first six months following longer quoted and Tate and Lyle plc.
The contract also has special provisions relating to liquidated damages requiring that the notice period stipulated in the contract will be paid in full.
These conditions were incorporated into Under the terms of the scheme an award to an individual cannot new contracts several years ago when the Directors changed from exceed 100 per cent of that individuals annual salary except in contracts that had notice periods of up to three years.
Whilst these exceptional circumstances when up to 200 per cent of the annual contractual terms differ from the current policy, the Remuneration salary is permitted.
The Remuneration Committee, which decides Committee has concluded that it would not be appropriate, in the whether performance conditions have been met, considers EPS circumstances, to seek to further amend the contractual terms agreed and TSR to be the most appropriate measures of the long-term with this individual in 2006. performance of the Group.
Bernard Hoggarth has a similar contract though he has given notice Annual bonus arrangement that he will retire at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The bonus scheme in operation is based on the achievement of Group profit targets which are set having regard to the Companys budget, There are no termination or exit payments in any of the service historical performance and market outlook for the year.
Any sums payable up to the point of leaving will be target is not disclosed as it is considered to be sensitive information.
considered by the Remuneration Committee and will take into account There are four bonus profit targets triggering 20 per cent, 40 per cent, earnings, any bonus earned, any share awards due and any pay in 80 per cent and 150 per cent of base salaries with a pro-rata basis for lieu of notice.
Similarly it is not the intention of the Remuneration profits falling between those targets.
There is a fixed sum paid out at Committee to commit the Company to pay signing on payments for the half year stage based on the achievement of the half year target.
any new directors, though it reserves the right to review this position in certain situations.
Discretion The Committee retains discretion to make any payments, Non-Executive Directors notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, Each Non-Executive Director has an appointment letter John Worby where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy for 31 months from 1 January 2012, Steven Esom for three years from came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not 12 November 2011, Kate Allum for three years from a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the 1 July 2013 and Mark Reckitt three years from 1 May 2014.
The payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director continuing appointments are subject to annual re-election at the of the Company.
