Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The Group and Company financial statements of Cranswick plc the Company for the year ended 31 March 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2014 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Martin Davey and Mark Bottomley.
Cranswick plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in note 2.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements of Cranswick plc, both consolidated and Company, have been prepared under IFRS as adopted by the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied throughout the year and the preceding year, is as follows: Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Cranswick plc and its subsidiaries.
The results of undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Share-based payments Note 24 measurement of share-based payments Goodwill Note 11 measurement of the recoverable amount of cash generating units containing goodwill Provisions Note 21 judgements in relation to amounts provided Pensions Note 25 pension scheme actuarial assumptions Acquisitions Note 14 fair values on acquisition Trade receivable provisions Note 17 provision for impairment of trade receivables New standards and interpretations applied The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures 1 January 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment 1 July 2012 IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2013 IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2013 IFRS May 2012 Annual Improvements 1 January 2013 74 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time now have to be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affected presentation only and had no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits IAS 19 revised includes a number of amendments to the accounting for defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal impact on the Group of the application of this standard is that interest on pension scheme assets is now calculated by reference to the liability discount rate rather than the expected long-term yield on the assets, as was the case previously.
The impact of the amendment on profit before tax for the prior year ended 31 March 2013 was to increase finance costs by 135,000, with a resulting reduction of 0.2 pence in both earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share.
The amendment also led to a 33,000 reduction in the prior year tax charge, offset by an increase in income tax charged through other comprehensive income.
There was no impact on the reported pension liability as the impact on the income statement was mitigated by an offsetting adjustment in the calculation of actuarial gains and losses in the statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The resulting calculations under IFRS 13 affected the principles that the Group uses to assess the fair value, but the assessment of fair value under IFRS 13 has not materially changed the fair values recognised or disclosed.
IFRS 13 mainly impacts the disclosures of the Group.
It requires specific disclosures about fair value measurements and disclosures of fair values, some of which replace existing disclosure requirements in other standards.
The application of the other standards has not had a material effect on the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups and Companys financial statements in the period of initial application.
The standards not applied are as follows: International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date IAS 32 revised Financial Instruments: Presentation on Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendment Initial Application of IFRS 9 1 January 2015 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IASB IFRIC standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application of new standards and interpretations will be subject to their having been endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement mechanism.
In the majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
The Group has not early adopted any of the above standards.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue, and any associated costs can be measured reliably.
Revenue on the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer on despatch and represents the value of sales to customers net of discounts, similar allowances and estimates of returns and excludes value-added tax.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 75 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-GAAP measures adjusted Group operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share Adjusted Group operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are defined as being before net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, impairment charges and other significant non-trading items being release of contingent consideration in the current period.
These additional non-GAAP measures of performance are included as the Directors believe that they provide a useful alternative measure for Shareholders of the trading performance of the Group.
The reconciliation between Group operating profit and adjusted Group operating profit is shown on the face of the Group income statement.
Income statement presentation During the period, the Group has amended its income statement presentation to present cost of sales, selling and distribution costs, administrative expenses and gross profit within the notes to the financial statements note 4 rather than on the face of the income statement as was the case previously.
The Directors consider it appropriate to amend the income statement presentation in this way to facilitate a more meaningful comparison with prior and future periods following the acquisitions in the current period which introduce valuation movements on biological assets into the income statement.
Taxation Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: i except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised: i except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and ii in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income taxes relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity and not in the income statement.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends Dividends receivable by the Company are recognised in the income statement if they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity paying the dividend, prior to the balance sheet date.
Dividends payable by the Company are recognised when declared and therefore final dividends proposed after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at the balance sheet date.
Dividends paid to Shareholders are shown as a movement in equity rather than on the face of the income statement.
76 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Intangible assets Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid for a business over the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
When an entity is disposed of, any goodwill associated with it is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal except that goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 31 March 2004 which was previously deducted from equity is not recycled through the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill only if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future economic benefits are expected to flow to the Group.
Customer relationships are amortised evenly over their expected useful lives of five years, with amortisation charged through administration expenses in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are included at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on property, plant and equipment on the depreciable amount, being cost less the estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date on a straight line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, or the estimated useful economic lives of their individual parts.
Useful economic lives are principally as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Short leasehold improvements Remainder of lease Plant and equipment 5 11 years Motor vehicles 4 years The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment individually or at the cash generating unit level when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Capitalised borrowing costs Borrowing costs incurred in financing the construction of qualifying assets such as property, plant and equipment are capitalised up to the date at which the relevant asset is substantially complete.
Borrowing costs are calculated using the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing during the period of capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 77 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
In the consolidated income statement for the reporting period, and for the comparable period of the previous year, income and expenses from discontinued operations are reported separately from continuing income and expenses down to the level of profit after taxes, even when the Group retains a non-controlling interest in the subsidiary after the sale.
The resulting profit or loss after taxes is reported separately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale are not depreciated.
Accounting for leases i Finance leases Assets which are financed by leasing agreements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, in Property, plant and equipment and the corresponding capital cost is shown as an obligation to the lessor in Borrowings.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the term of the lease.
The interest element of the rental obligations is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remainder of the capital amount outstanding.
ii Operating leases Leases which are not finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Government grants and contributions UK Regional Development Grants and grants receivable from the European Union and DEFRA in respect of property, plant and equipment are credited to deferred income and released to the income statement over the relevant depreciation period.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis and net realisable value after making allowance for any obsolete or slow-moving items.
In the case of finished goods, cost comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing fixed and variable overheads based on a normal level of activity.
Biological assets The Groups biological assets consist of pigs in the form of breeding sows classified as non-current assets and their progeny for processing within the Group and externally classified as current assets.
On initial recognition and at the balance sheet date biological assets have been measured at their fair value less costs to sell, in line with IAS 41.
Gains and losses in relation to the fair value of biological assets are recognised in the income statement, within cost of sales, in the period in which they arise.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash equivalents are defined as cash at bank and in hand including short-term deposits with original maturity within three months.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
78 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2014 Corporate Governance Shareholder Information Strategic Report Financial Statements Financial instruments i Debt instruments, including bank borrowings Debt instruments are initially recognised at the fair value of net proceeds received after the deduction of issue costs.
Subsequently debt instruments are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Issue costs are charged to the income statement over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the balance sheet carrying amount under the effective interest method.
ii Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with a similar maturity profile.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Where derivatives meet the hedging criteria under IAS 39 for cash flow hedges the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Gains or losses recognised in comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the net profit or loss.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to net profit or loss for the period.
Financial assets loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Foreign currencies In the accounts of each entity in the Group, individual transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the actual exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses on settlement of individual foreign currency transactions and movements on monetary assets and liabilities are dealt with in the income statement.
Employee benefits i Pensions A subsidiary of the Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme for certain employees which requires contributions to be made to a separate trustee administered fund.
The scheme was closed to new members on 30 June 2004.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past-service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The amounts charged to operating profit are any gains and losses on settlements and curtailments, and these are included as part of staff costs.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
Report & Accounts 2014 Cranswick plc 79 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Employee benefits continued i Pensions continued The difference between the interest cost on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets is recognised in the income statement as other finance revenue or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes for employees under which contributions are paid into schemes managed by major insurance companies.
Contributions are calculated as a percentage of employees earnings and obligations for contributions to the schemes are recognised as cost of sales or operating expenses in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Equity-settled share-based payments The Group operates a savings-related share option scheme under which options have been granted to Group employees SAYE scheme.
In addition, the Group operates an Executive share option scheme albeit currently not in use and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for senior Executives.
Share options awarded are exercisable subject to the attainment of certain market based and non market-based performance criteria.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
On transition to IFRS, the Group did not apply the measurement rules of IFRS 2 to equity settled awards granted before 7 November 2002 or granted after that date and vested before 1 January 2005.
However later modifications of such equity instruments are measured under IFRS 2.
