Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Company Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Pensions financial statements are set out below.
They have all been applied The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless by contributions to separate funds.
As the Company is unable to otherwise stated.
reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though the Accounting basis funds were defined contribution funds and charges contributions The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost paid directly to the profit and loss account.
convention, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Currency translations Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on asrequired by European law, the Companys accounts continue to trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Other be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Going concern The financial statements which appear on pages 134 to 139 have Financial instruments been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its enquiries, including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking exposure to interest rates and short term currency rate fluctuations.
facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost.
Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the existence for the foreseeable future.
instrument as either: i a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets Land and buildings or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or ii a hedge In the past the Companys principal properties have been valued ofhighly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge : periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing i Fair value hedge usebasis.
Following the Companys adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate nofurther revaluations will be carried out and previous book values swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and will be retained.
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss, assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset thatany impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 orliability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
ii Cash flow hedge The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are theprofit and loss account represents the difference between the designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
netproceeds of sale and the net book amount.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised Depreciation immediately in the profit and loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation, recycled in the profit and loss in the periods when the hedged item will where cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged intended use.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
The estimated equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial average life for each major asset category is: measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the Freehold buildings 15 to 40 years criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in Plant and equipment 3 to 15 years equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the Leased assets forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and loss.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the profit and loss.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the profit and loss.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 135 Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies continued Employee Share Ownership Trusts Borrowings Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction in costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of shareholders funds.
Movements in the year arising from additional transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the profit purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless and shown as a movement in shareholders funds in the year.
the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
profit and loss account as incurred.
Trade and other debtors Share based payments Trade and other debtors are recognised initially at fair value and Share based incentive schemes are accounted for in accordance subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest with FRS20 Share-based Payments, which requires an expense to method, less impairment losses.
be recognised in the profit and loss over the vesting period of the Investments options.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument Shares in subsidiary undertakings which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as Shares in subsidiary undertakings are initially stated at cost.
Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual is made where, in the opinion of the Directors, a permanent diminution levels of options vesting, as market-based performance criteria are in value has occurred.
Unquoted securities Dividends Investments in unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless All dividends, including preference dividends, are recognised as a such value cannot be reliably measured, in which case the liability when the liability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are investments are carried at cost.
recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Financial risk factors The Group accounting policy for financial risk factors is also relevant to Taxation the preparation of the Company financial statements and is disclosed The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes on pages 120 and 121. into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and other accounting purposes.
Temporary differences arise from the inclusion of profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deficit.
Full provision is made for the tax effects of these differences.
No provision is made for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit such earnings.
Similarly, no provision is made for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
136 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
