Financial Statements Notes to the Group Accounts continued 27. Business combinations On 3 April 2014, the Group acquired AM Coatings BV.
The acquisition brings a novel non-leaching antimicrobial technology for coating andadhesive applications.
The Group plans to commercialise and exploit this technology in certain existing business areas.
On 1 August 2014, the Group acquired JD Horizons Limited, a UK based business specialising in flow assurance technology.
JD Horizons hadbecome a leader in flow assurance chemicals for the international oil markets with its FlowSolve range.
This strategic acquisition willbring theGroup closer to end users in the oil and gas market.
The acquired business will form part of the Groups Geo Technologies business area.
The following table summarises the consideration paid in respect of the above acquisitions, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Total m Consideration 1.9 Fair value of assets and liabilities acquired Intangible assets 0.5 Inventories 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.3 Trade and other payables 0.3 Total identifiable net assets 0.7 Goodwill 1.2 Acquisition-related costs of 0.2m have been charged to administration expenses in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31December 2014.
During 2014, the Group completed its fair value review of the 2013 acquisition of Sichuan Sipo Chemical Co. Ltd Sipo.
This review identified a 2.5m reduction in the acquired asset base.
This amount has been reclassified as goodwill in 2014.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions completed in 2014 is attributable to the synergies expected to arise from the combination of the acquired technologies and Crodas global sales and marketing network.
Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the course of business.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where possible an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
The Group is also involved in certain legal and environmental actions and proceedings.
Whilst the Group cannot predict the outcome of any current or future actions or proceedings with any certainty, it currently believes the likelihood of any material liabilities to be low, and that the liabilities, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
The Group also considers ithas insurance in place in relation to any significant contingent liabilities.
130 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
