Financial Statements Company Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Company financial statements Adequacy of accounting records and information and Our opinion explanations received In our opinion, Croda International Plcs Company financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statements the financial statements : inour opinion: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at we have not received all the information and explanations we require 31December 2014 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: for our audit: or have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting What we have audited records and returns.
Croda International Plcs financial statements comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: Directors remuneration the accounting policies: and Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion the notes to the financial statements, which include other In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to explanatory information.
beaudited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report & Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than Other Companies Act 2006 reporting inthe notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the thisresponsibility.
preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Our responsibilities and those of the directors Accepted Accounting Practice.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Other required reporting set out on page 83, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Consistency of other information of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Companies Act 2006 opinion and fair view.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for opinion, information in the Annual Report is: the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do statements: or not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of prior consent in writing.
performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
132 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made bythe Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements ofCroda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 24 February 2015 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133
