Financial Statements Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc Report on the Group financial statements Our audit approach Our opinion Overview In our opinion, Croda International Plcs Group financial statements Overall Group materiality: 11.5m, which the financial statements : represents 5% of profit before tax The Group audit team performed give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 theaudit work in both the US and UK.
December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then Combined with where component ended: teams perform full scope audits, our have been properly prepared in accordance with International Group audit covered 73.4% of Group Materiality Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European revenues and 83.6% of Group profit Union: and before tax have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the For other significant parts of the Group, Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
which are audited by component Audit scope auditors, we were heavily involved at all What we have audited stages of their audits by virtue of Croda International Plcs financial statements comprise: numerous communications throughout the Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: the process, including the issuance of detailed audit instructions and the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Areas of focus discussion of audit findings, in particular Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: over our areas of focus the Group Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended: Valuation of defined benefit pension the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: scheme liability the Group Accounting policies: and Provision for environmental remediation the notes to the financial statements, which include other Taxation explanatory information.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Annual Report & Accounts 2014 the Annual Report, rather than in on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved Union.
making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
84 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014
