Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these CGUs.
These calculations require the use of estimates to financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been enable the calculation of the net present value of cashflow consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise projections of the relevant CGU, the critical estimates are as stated.
follows: Basis of preparation Growth in EBITDA calculated as operating profit before The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the depreciation and amortisation estimated at between 3% historical cost convention, in accordance with International Financial and5% long term, a prudent estimate given the Groups Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRSIC, IFRSIC and historicgrowth rates the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Timing and quantum of capital expenditure estimated to grow IFRS.
The standards used are those published by the International from current levels at the same 3% to 5% rates Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the EU at the time of preparing these statements February 2015.
A summary of Selection of appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
involved typically the Groups weighted average cost of capital would be used as a starting point unless the risk profile of a Going concern particular acquired business warranted different treatment The financial statements which appear on pages 89 to 130 have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate Currently, recoverable amounts significantly exceed carrying enquiries, including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking values, including goodwill, there is thus no impairment within a facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group reasonable range of assumptions.
Goodwill arising on acquisition has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the is allocated to the CGU that is expected to benefit from the foreseeable future.
Such goodwill is then incorporated into the Groups standard impairment review process as Accounting estimates and judgements described above.
The Groups critical accounting policies under IFRS have been set iii Retirement benefit liabilities as disclosed in note 11, the Groups bymanagement with the approval of the Audit Committee.
The principal retirement benefit schemes are of the defined benefit application of these policies requires estimates and assumptions type.
Year end recognition of the liabilities under these schemes tobe made concerning the future and judgements to be made and the valuation of assets held to fund these liabilities require a ontheapplicability of policies to particular situations.
Estimates and number of significant assumptions to be made, relating to levels judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical ofscheme membership, key financial market indicators such experience and other factors, including expectations of future events asinflation and expectations on future salary growth and asset that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
These assumptions are made by the Group in IFRS an estimate or judgement may be considered critical if it involves conjunction with the schemes actuaries and the Directors matters that are highly uncertain or where different estimation areofthe view that any estimation should be prudent and in methods could reasonably have been used, or if changes in the linewith consensus opinion.
estimate that would have a material impact on the Groups results are likely to occur from period to period.
The critical judgements required iv Taxation the Group is subject to corporate income taxes in when preparing the Groups accounts are as follows: numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is often required i Provisions as disclosed in note 20, the Group has made indetermining the worldwide expense and liability for such taxes.
significant provision for potential environmental liabilities.
The There are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate rationale behind these and other provisions is discussed in note tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of 20.
The Directors believe that these provisions are appropriate business.
The Group recognises liabilities for tax issues based based on information currently available.
onestimates of whether additional taxes will be due, based on its best interpretation of the relevant tax laws and rules.
Where the ii Goodwill and fair value of assets acquired note 12 under IFRS, final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts management are required to undertake an annual test for that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the impairment of indefinite lived assets such as goodwill.
income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which Accordingly, the Group tests annually whether goodwill has such determination is made.
suffered any impairment and the Groups goodwill value has been supported by detailed value-in-use calculations relating to the recoverable amounts of the underlying cash generating units 94 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Changes in accounting policy Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on the a New and amended standards adopted by the Group recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets.
This amendment removed certain disclosures of the recoverable The following standards have been adopted by the Group for amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue thefirst time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2014, of IFRS 13.
The amendment did not have a significant effect on none of which have a material impact on the Group: the financial statements.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing Amendment to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining measurement on the novation of derivatives and the continuation factor in whether an entity should be included within the of hedge accounting.
This amendment considers legislative consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
changes to over-the-counter derivatives and the establishment Thestandard provides additional guidance to assist in the of central counterparties.
Under IAS 39 novation of derivatives to determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The central counterparties would result in discontinuance of hedge impact of IFRS 10 has been assessed and is not considered accounting.
The amendment provides relief from discontinuing tohave any material impact to the financial statements.
hedge accounting when novation of a hedging instrument meets IFRS 11, Joint arrangements focuses on the rights and specified criteria.
The amendment did not have a significant effect obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal on the financial statements.
There are two types of joint arrangements: joint operations IFRIC 21, Levies, sets out the accounting for an obligation to pay and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where the investors a levy if that liability is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions.
The haverights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities of an interpretation addresses what the obligating event is that gives arrangement.
A joint operator accounts for its share of the assets, rise to pay a levy and when a liability should be recognised.
The liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the Group is not currently subjected to significant levies so the impact investors have rights to the net assets of the arrangement: joint on the Group is not material.
ventures are accounted for under the equity method.
Proportional consolidation of joint arrangements is no longer permitted.
Other standards, amendments and interpretations which are Thisdid not have a material impact on the financial statements.
effective for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2014 are notmaterial to the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, b New standards and interpretations not yet adopted including joint arrangements, associates, structured entities A number of new standards and amendments to standards and andother off balance sheet vehicles.
This did not have a material interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after impact on the financial statements.
1January 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation on have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
This amendment of the Group, except the following set out below: clarifies that the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event.
It must also be legally enforceable for all counterparties in IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, the normal course of business, as well as in the event of default, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial insolvency or bankruptcy.
The amendment also considers liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. settlement mechanisms.
The amendment did not have a It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification significant effect on the financial statements.
and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through profit or loss.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued Changes in accounting policy continued Group accounts The basis of classification depends on the entitys business General information model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the Croda International Plc is a public limited company, which is listed on financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the tobe measured at fair value through profit or loss with the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office can be found irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in onpage 142.
There is now a new expected credit loss model Subsidiaries that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its fairvalue through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between from the date that control ceases.
the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one management actually use for risk The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is forbusiness combinations.
The consideration transferred for the still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, 39.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on theliabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
Early adoption is permitted subject to EU Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact.
acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with theacquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful Theexcess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of information to users of financial statements about the nature, identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the IAS11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
policies adopted by the Group.
Thestandard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after Transactions with non-controlling interests 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted subject to EU The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as endorsement.
The Group is assessing the impact of IFRS 15. transactions with the equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration yeteffective that would be expected to have a material impact paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net onthe Group assets of the subsidiary is recorded as equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
96 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Intangible assets Research and development Goodwill Research expenditure, undertaken with the prospect of gaining On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the newscientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is charged netassets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal consideration given for a business exceeds such net assets.
development expenditure, whereby research findings are applied Goodwillarising on acquisitions is capitalised and carried at cost less toaplan for the production of new or substantially improved products accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is subject to impairment orprocesses, is charged to the income statement in the year in review, both annually and when there are indications that the carrying whichit is incurred unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 value may not be recoverable.
For the purpose of impairment testing, Intangible Assets.
Measurement and other uncertainties generally assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately mean that such criteria are not met.
Where, however, the recognition identifiable cash flows, known as cash generating units CGUs.
If criteria are met, intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying value of their useful economic lives from product launch.
Intangible assets the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised immediately against relating to products in development are subject to impairment testing the goodwill value.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher at each balance sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is estimated Any impairment losses are written off immediately to income.
with reference to estimated future cash flows discounted to net Computer software present value using a discount rate that reflects the risks specific Acquired computer software licenses covering a period of greater tothe CGU.
Typically the Groups weighted average cost of capital than one year are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to would be used as a starting point unless the risk profile of a particular acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are acquired business warranted different treatment.
The Group uses amortised over their estimated useful lives three to five years.
prudent growth estimates that track below the Groups historic growth rates.
Revenue recognition Sale of goods Other intangible assets arising on acquisition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods, excludes On acquisition, intangible assets other than goodwill will be inter-company sales and value-added taxes and represents recognised if they can be identified through being separable from netinvoice value less estimated rebates, returns and theacquired entity or arising from specific contractual or legal rights.
Once recognised, such intangible assets will be initially valued using either the market approach where a welldefined external market The Group supplies products to customers from its various for the asset exists, the income approach which looks at the future manufacturing sites and warehouses and in some limited instances income the asset will generate or the cost approach the cost of from consignment inventory held on customer sites, under a replacing the asset, whichever is most relevant to the asset under varietyofstandard terms and conditions.
In each case revenue consideration.
Following initial recognition, the asset will be written isrecognisedwhen the transfer of legal title, which is defined and down on a straight line basis over its useful life.
Useful lives are generally accepted in the standard terms and conditions, arises regularly reviewed to ensure their continuing relevance.
between the Group and the customer.
This will nearly always be on dispatch or delivery, but never before dispatch.
Provisions for sales discounts and rebates to customers are based upon the terms of sales contracts and are recorded in the same period as the related sales as a deduction from revenue.
The Group estimates the provision for sales discounts and rebates based on the terms ofeachagreement at the time the revenue is recognised.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued Royalties and profit sharing arrangements Other post-retirement benefits Revenues are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits withthe substance of the underlying agreement, subject to reliable to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional measurement of the amounts.
on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected costs of these Interest and dividend income benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension effective interest method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Statement Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment ofComprehensive Income.
These obligations are valued annually isestablished.
Segmental reporting Termination benefits An operating segment is a group of assets and operations engaged Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated inproviding products and services that are subject to risks or returns bythe Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an that are different from those of other segments.
Operating segments employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these presented in the financial statements are consistent with the internal benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits when it is reporting provided to the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker, demonstrably committed to either i terminating the employment which has been identified as the Group Executive Committee.
ofcurrent employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or ii providing termination benefits as a Employee benefits resultof an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Pension obligations The Group accounts for pensions and similar benefits under IAS Share based payments 19Employee Benefits revised.
In respect of defined benefit plans The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled, sharepension plans that define an amount of pension benefit that an based incentive schemes.
These are accounted for in accordance employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or with IFRS2 Share-based Payments, which requires an expense to more factors such as age, years of service and compensation, be recognised in the income statement over the vesting period of the obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst plan options.
The expense is based on the fair value of each instrument assets are recorded at fair value.
The liability recognised in the which is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the net appropriate.
Any expense is adjusted to reflect expected and actual ofthe plan obligations and assets.
No allowance is made in the past levels of options vesting, as the Group does not use market-based service liability in respect of either the future expenses of running the performance criteria.
schemes or for non-service related death in service benefits which Currency translations may arise in the future.
The operating costs of such plans are charged Functional and presentation currency to operating profit and the finance costs are recognised as financial Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups income or an expense as appropriate.
Service costs are spread entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic systematically over the lives of employees and financing costs are environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, losses are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Payments to defined contribution schemes pension plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity Transactions and balances arecharged as an expense as they fall due.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
98 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Group companies Exceptional items The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have Exceptional items are those items that in the Directors view are afunctional currency different from the presentation currency are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence translated into the presentation currency as follows: to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Inthe current year all exceptional items relate to reorganisation costs.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are There were no exceptional items in the prior year.
Details can be found translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: in note 3 on page 103. ii income and expenses for each income statement are translated Income statement presentation at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable The acquisitions in 2014 of AM Coatings and JD Horizons increased approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on acquisition costs and amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
If the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are theright targets can be found, these costs are likely to increase in the translated at the dates of the transactions : and future.
To avoid distorting the underlying trend in profitability, in 2013 iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate the Group introduced the definitions Adjusted operating profit, component of equity.
Adjusted pre-tax profit and Adjusted earnings per share.
In each case acquisition costs, amortisation or write off of intangible assets On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of arising on acquisition and exceptional items, including the respective the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other tax effect, are excluded.
The Group income statement has been currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are produced in a columnar format to further aid this analysis.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part Property, plant and equipment of the gain or loss on sale.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired as part of a Taxation business combination which are initially recorded at fair value.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes Costincludes the original purchase price of the asset and the into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences costsattributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its between the treatment of certain items for taxation and for accounting intended use.
The Groups policy is to write off the difference between purposes.
Temporary differences arise on differences between the cost of all property, plant and equipment, except freehold land, thecarrying value of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated and their tax base and primarily relate to the difference between useful lives.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining taxallowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding lives and residual values of individual productive assets, taking depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund deficit.
Full provision account of commercial and technological obsolescence as well as is made for the tax effects of these differences.
No provision is made normal wear and tear, and adjustments are made where appropriate.
for unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries where there is no Under this policy it becomes impractical to calculate average asset commitment to remit such earnings.
Similarly, no provision is made lives exactly.
However, the total lives range from approximately for temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries since 15to40 years for buildings, and 3 to 15 years for plant and equipment.
realisation of such differences can be controlled and is not probable Allindividual assets are reviewed for impairment when there are inthe foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised, using indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
By far the the liability method, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable bulk of the Groups plant and equipment asset class relates to the profit will be available against which the temporary differences can value of plant and equipment at the Groups manufacturing facilities.
Consequently, the Group does not seek to analyse out of this class All taxation is calculated on the basis of the tax rates and laws enacted other items such as motor vehicles and office equipment.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies continued Impairment of non-financial assets ii Cash flow hedge The Group assesses at each year end whether an asset may The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are beimpaired.
If any evidence exists of impairment, the estimated designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
recoverable amount is compared to the carrying value of the asset The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised and an impairment loss is recognised where appropriate.
The immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity recoverable amount is the higher of an assets value in use and are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged fairvalue less costs to sell.
In addition to this, goodwill is tested for item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is impairment at least annually.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is which have suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, ofthe impairment at each reporting date.
inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial Leases measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the sheet under property, plant and equipment at an amount reflecting criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing the lower of the present value of future rentals and the fair value of the inequity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the asset and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
The capital element of future lease rentals is When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the included in borrowings.
Finance charges are allocated to the income cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately statement each year in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
transferred to the income statement.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the income statement on astraight line basis over the lease period.
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not Derivative financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its income statement.
exposureto interest rates and short term currency rate fluctuations.
Borrowings Derivative financial instruments are recorded initially at cost.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of instrument as either: i a hedge of the fair value of recognised assets transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or ii a hedge income statement over the period of the borrowings using the ofhighly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge : effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current i Fair value hedge liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement Changes in the fair value of derivatives, for example interest rate of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
swaps and foreign exchange contracts, that are designated and Borrowing costs qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are orliability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
100 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Trade and other payables Share capital Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and a Investment in own shares subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Employee Share Ownership Trusts interestmethod.
Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction Inventories inequity attributable to owners of the parent.
Movements in the year Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in equity business in bringing the inventory to its location and condition at the attributable to owners of the parent in the year.
Net realisable amount is the estimated selling expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys income price in the ordinary course of business less any applicable variable statement as incurred.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory where appropriate.
Profits arising on intra Treasury shares Groupsales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share Groupinventory at the year end.
capital as treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is Trade and other receivables deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, method, less impairment losses.
A provision for impairment is made net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the when there is objective evidence that the amount will not be collectible.
related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Such amounts are written down to their estimated recoverable Companys equity holders.
amounts, with the charge being made to operating expenses.
b Preference share capital Cash and cash equivalents Preference share capital is classified as equity as the Group has full Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term discretion over the transfer of benefits associated with the shares.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form anintegral part of the Groups cash management are included as c Dividends acomponent of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an statement of cash flows.
Cash and bank overdrafts are offset and accruals basis.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability when thenet amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally theliability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, there is an when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are intention to settle on a net basis and interest is charged on a net basis.
Environmental, restructuring and other provisions Investments The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its Investments in quoted securities are treated as available for sale and operations and liabilities arising from the restructuring of its stated at fair value, being the appropriate quoted market value, with operationsfollowing the acquisition of Uniqema.
Provisions are made movements in the fair value being recognised in equity.
Investments in immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identified, can unquoted securities are carried at fair value unless such value cannot be quantified and it is regarded as more likely than not that an outflow be reliably measured, in which case the investments are carried at of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
Investments are subject to impairment testing at each balance consider the impact of discounting when establishing provisions and sheet date or earlier upon indication of impairment.
Held to maturity provisions are discounted when the impact is material and the timing investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective of cash flows can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101
