Corporate and share information History and development CSR plc is the holding company of an international group of companies, the principal activities of which are the design and development of semiconductor integrated circuits, including platforms, and software that are used by many of the worlds leading technology and consumer-focused companies in a wide range of end markets.
For more information on CSRs business and strategy, please see pages 8 to 15 of the Strategic Report.
CSR is domiciled in England and Wales, and its registered ofce and principal place of business is at Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ.
CSR was established in Cambridge in April 1999 by an engineering and marketing team that previously worked at Cambridge Consultants Limited, a technology and consulting rm based in Cambridge, that transferred certain assets, including the assignment and license on a non-exclusive royalty free basis of intellectual property rights, to CSR in exchange for ordinary shares.
CSR plc the holding company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited registered number 04187346, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 1985.
On 10 July 2001, the company was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc.
On 25 October 2002, it was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited and on 19 February 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc.
CSR ordinary shares were admitted to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange in March 2004.
CSRs shares are listed on the premium segment of the Ofcial List maintained by the UK Listing Authority.
In connection with the acquisition of SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. SiRF, CSR registered its ordinary shares in 2009 pursuant to Section 12 g of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and became an SEC reporting company.
In connection with the acquisition of Zoran Corporation Zoran in August 2011, ordinary shares issued by CSR in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, each ADS representing four ordinary shares in CSR plc were listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market and commenced trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
In the last six years, we have sought to broaden our technological base and product range through a series of acquisitions, of which the most material were: In June 2009, we acquired SiRF, for a consideration of $281.5 million satisfied by the issue of ordinary shares in CSR plc to holders as at 26 June 2009 of SiRF common stock, at a ratio of 0.741 of a CSR ordinary share for each SiRF share of common stock.
In July 2010, we acquired APT Licensing Limited, a leading ultra-high-quality codec developer, for a consideration of $4.25 million.
In August 2011, we acquired Zoran, a leading provider of digital solutions for the digital entertainment and digital imaging markets, for a consideration of $440.5 million, satisfied by: i the payment of $316.4 million in cash being a payment of $6.26 in cash for each share of Zoran common stock held : and ii the issue of ordinary shares in CSR plc in the form of ADSs at a ratio of 0.589 ordinary shares for each Zoran share of common stock, to holders of Zoran Corporation common stock as at 31 August 2011.
In June 2014, we acquired certain assets and a development team from Reciva Limited for a consideration of $5.0 million.
The acquisition enhanced our Voice & Music business by adding streaming audio capabilities to our networked audio products via our service delivery platform.
In October 2012, we disposed of our handset connectivity and handset location developments operations to Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Samsung for $310 million in cash.
Along with the disposal, we also transferred 311 people to Samsung.
The cash consideration was subject to a maximum adjustment of a $5 million increase or decrease in certain circumstances, linked to the progress made in nalising the development of a Wi-Fi Bluetooth combination connectivity chip, to which both CSR and Samsung will have rights to exploit in their respective end markets.
In 2014, CSR paid $5 million to Samsung in respect of this provision.
Upon completion of this transaction, Samsung Electronics Europe Holding Coperatief U.
A. invested $34.4 million in return for CSR ordinary shares.
On 15 January 2014, Samsung disposed of their entire holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
On 15 October 2014, the boards of CSR plc and Qualcomm Incorporated Qualcomm announced that an agreement had been reached regarding the terms of a recommended cash offer for the Company, whereby Qualcomm Global Trading Pte.
Ltd. QGT, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm, will acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of CSR the Qualcomm Transaction.
As announced, the Qualcomm Transaction will be implemented by way of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006 the Scheme pursuant to which the Scheme Shares as dened in the Scheme Document, which is dened below will be cancelled and extinguished by way of a reduction in the capital of CSR plc and QGT and or its nominee s will acquire newly issued shares paid up out of the reserve arising as a result of the cancellation of the Scheme Shares.
On 12 November 2014, we published the Scheme document the Scheme Document which set out the detailed terms of the Scheme.
The court meeting and general meeting held on 4 December 2014, resulted in the approval of the Scheme and the passing of a special resolution to approve certain matters relating to the Scheme and the Qualcomm Transaction, including: the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association, with effect from the date of the meetings, and the re-registration of the Company as a private company, the reduction of the share capital of CSR by cancelling the Scheme Shares as dened in the Scheme Document and the issue of new shares to QGT and or its nominees, which will take effect on the dates indicated in the Scheme Document.
Under the terms of the Qualcomm Transaction, the Scheme Shareholders as dened in the Scheme Document on the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day before the Effective Date as dened in the Scheme Document will be entitled to receive 900 pence in cash for each CSR ordinary share held by them at that time.
The Qualcomm Transaction is subject to a number of regulatory and other conditions, which are set out in full in Part Three of the Scheme Document, and which include obtaining clearance from the relevant competition authorities in China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States.
Clearance has been obtained in respect of the United States, as announced on 15 December 2014, and in respect of Germany, as announced on 2 February 2015.
It is expected that the Scheme will become effective by late summer 2015.
148 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Research and development We devote a substantial portion of our resources to identifying, evaluating, and developing ideas that we can bring to market as innovative technologies and products for our customers.
As at 26 December 2014, we employed 1,515 people in research and development, across 17 R&D centres in 7 different countries.
Our R&D expenditure was approximately $240.9 million in 2014 compared to $273.1 million in 2013 and $290.4 million in 2012.
For more information on our business and the products and technologies in which we are investing see pages 8 to 15.
For more information on our financial results and investment in R&D see page 22 of the Strategic Report.
Sales and marketing Our sales and marketing function is centred in Cambridge, United Kingdom and San Jose, United States with sales and liaison ofces in Boston and Plano, United States: Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul, South Korea: Tokyo, Japan: Singapore: Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen, China.
We market to original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers, principally through our direct sales force and, in North America, through sales representatives.
We also market our products through a global network of distributors.
Our marketing efforts are supported by a team of applications engineers that provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems that incorporate our products.
This support is generally provided without charge to customers who have the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
An important part of our marketing efforts involves providing technical support to product developers to encourage them to design products using our chips.
For this purpose, we provide a range of development kits and tools.
Manufacturing We are a fabless semiconductor company, which means we subcontract all aspects associated with the manufacture wafer fabrication, packaging and testing of our products prior to shipping to our customers.
TSMC and ASE remain the primary vendors for the volume of manufacturing, which is carried out at a number of locations across the world, comprising primarily Taiwan, but including South Korea, China, the US and Singapore.
We do not have long-term contracts with any of these third parties, and thus have no contractual assurance as to their long-term availability or the costs associated with the supply of products and services.
Through all our subcontractors, we work to ensure that the Group is able to maintain sufficient capacity to support the demand for our products.
The ability to supply our customers can be affected in the event of a loss of capacity at a supplier due to events affecting their business, such as natural disaster, interruption of their own supply chain or increased demand from our competitors, which may mean we are unable to secure the volumes of products we require to meet customer demand.
This is discussed in more detail on pages 43 to 51 in the section that explains the risk factors which we face.
Raw materials CSR sources both the manufacture and testing of its silicon wafers and the packaging of its integrated circuits from a small number of subcontractors, including those named above, who have facilities spread across multiple locations, primarily in Taiwan, but also in South Korea, China, the US and Singapore.
CSR also purchases memory and certain other passive components from other commodity suppliers.
These are standard components capable of being obtained through alternative sources, subject to the conduct of a product qualication process prior to adoption into manufacturing.
The prices of our principal raw materials may be volatile.
For example, precious metals such as copper and gold, that are used in our products, are subject to variation in price due to general supply and demand market dynamics, which can be affected by global economic issues, and potential shortages or delays in extraction and processing.
Seasonality CSR has historically experienced increased net revenue in its second and third quarters compared with the fourth and first quarters primarily due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season.
However, in 2013, there was a positive impact on revenues in the first half of the year due to the demand for mono headsets in China arising from the enforcement of hands-free driving legislation, which benefited our Voice & Music segment.
Due to continued economic uncertainty and other factors, past historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future net revenue or financial performance as historical seasonal patterns may not recur.
Governmental regulation For a discussion of the possible material effects of governmental regulations on CSRs business, please refer to the Risk Factors and to the discussion of risks relating to political, economic and regulatory conditions in the countries in which we and our customers operate on pages 43 to 51.
Intellectual property Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology.
As at 26 December 2014, we had approximately 1,600 patents granted worldwide with expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2034 and approximately 600 pending patent applications compared to approximately 1,650 patents granted worldwide and approximately 850 pending patent applications as at 27 December 2013.
The decrease in the numbers of patents granted and pending patent applications during 2014, is principally due to the sale to Qualcomm Incorporated of Imaging IP assets associated with the camera business in June 2014.
We intend to continue to assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology that we believe provides significant competitive advantage.
Although we le patents to protect our inventions, our revenue is not dependent on any particular patent.
We do not believe that the expiration or loss of a particular patent would materially harm our business.
com 149 Corporate and share information continued CSR plc Churchill House Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 0WZ Registered in England and Wales 4187346 www.
com Advisers Auditors Deloitte LLP Corporate brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Solicitors Slaughter and May Bank Lloyds Bank plc Share Information at 16 March 2014 Shares outstanding including shares underlying the ADSs 166,331,652 Trading Symbol Ordinary Shares CSR Country of Registration England Market London Stock Exchange SEDOL 3414738 Registrar Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA ADSs evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, each ADS representing four ordinary shares of CSR Trading Symbol ADSs CSRE Market NASDAQ Global Select Market Depositary JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. PO Box 64504, St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 ADS payment information The rights of ADS holders are set forth in the deposit agreement Deposit Agreement entered into among JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as depositary the Depositary, ADS holders from time to time and CSR.
CSR led the Deposit Agreement with the SEC as an exhibit to its registration statement on Form F-6 on 26 July 2011.
We summarise below some provisions of the Deposit Agreement relating to fees and charges that an ADS holder may have to pay, as well as fees and other payments made by the Depositary to CSR.
Fees payable by ADS holders Under the terms of the Deposit Agreement, an ADR holder may have to pay the following service fees to the Depositary: Service Fees Issuances, including against the deposit of ordinary shares, in respect of distribution Up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued of shares, rights or other property, stock dividend, stock splits, rights, merger: exchange of securities or other transaction or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or ordinary shares Surrender of ADSs for withdrawal of ordinary shares, cancellation Up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued or reduction of ADSs Cash distributions Up to $0.05 per ADS Transfer of ADRs $1.50 per ADR presented for transfer Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal to the fee for the Up to $5.00 per 100 ADSs or fraction thereof issued execution and delivery of ADSs that would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Depositary administration services Up to $0.05 per ADS payable at the sole discretion of the Depositary by billing ADS holders or by deducting charges from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the Depositary incurred on behalf of ADS holders, including in connection Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the with a compliance with applicable law or regulation e. g. foreign exchange control Depositary by billing ADS holders or by deducting regulations or any law or regulation relating to foreign investment, b stock transfer or charges from one or more cash dividends or other other taxes and governmental charges, c electronic and facsimile transmission delivery cash distributions charges, d transfer or registration fees for the registration or transfers of underlying shares, and e the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency The Depositary has agreed to waive the issuance fee for the issuance of ADSs against the deposit of ordinary shares in connection with certain events and not to charge ADS holders for certain cash dividend fees or annual administrative service fees, unless otherwise agreed with CSR.
150 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Fees and payments made by the Depositary to CSR The Depositary has also agreed to reimburse CSR up to a certain limit for certain expenses in connection with the maintenance of the ADS programme, including investor relations activities, listing fees and reasonable legal, audit and accounting fees.
The Depositary has further agreed to waive, on an annual basis, servicing fees relating to routine corporate actions, as well as other administration and operating expenses, including maintenance of DR register, administration of ADS holders accounts and custodian reconciliation.
Other than during the first year period after the effective date of the Deposit Agreement when the Depositary reimbursed CSR up to $50,000 for certain expenses incurred by CSR in connection with the establishment of the ADS programme, no fees or other payments were paid by the Depositary to CSR.
Market prices The primary trading market for CSR ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, where CSR ordinary shares trade under the ticker symbol CSR.
As of 26 December 2014, there were 185,955,224 CSR ordinary shares outstanding, of which 19,855,906 shares were held in treasury.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ordinary shares in pounds sterling for the five most recent full financial years, for each full financial quarter for the two most recent full financial years and for each month within the last six months: CSR Ordinary Shares pence High Low Year 2014 857.00 512.50 2013 639.50 333.80 2012 365.60 187.80 2011 447.00 154.10 2010 505.00 280.90 CSR Ordinary Shares pence High Low Quarter Fourth Quarter 2014 857.00 645.00 Third Quarter 2014 795.00 512.50 Second Quarter 2014 725.50 534.00 First Quarter 2014 806.50 632.00 Fourth Quarter 2013 639.50 477.90 Third Quarter 2013 607.00 485.70 Second Quarter 2013 570.00 464.20 First Quarter 2013 492.80 333.80 CSR Ordinary Shares pence High Low Month February 2015 870.00 852.50 January 2015 863.00 852.50 December 2014 857.00 831.50 November 2014 841.00 818.00 October 2014 857.00 645.00 September 2014 795.00 728.50 www.
com 151 Corporate and share information continued CSR ordinary shares have been listed since 31 August 2011 on the NASDAQ in the form of ADSs, with each ADS representing four ordinary shares of CSR: the ticker symbol is CSRE.
The following table shows the high and low market prices for CSR ADSs in US dollars for the full financial years 2014, 2013 and 2012, for the portion of the 2011 financial year from the commencement of the listing, for each full financial quarter for the two most recent full financial years and for each month within the last six months: CSR ADSs $ High Low Year 2014 54.90 34.05 2013 41.96 21.66 2012 23.10 11.51 2011 15.20 9.38 CSR ADSs $ Quarter High Low Fourth Quarter 2014 54.90 41.44 Third Quarter 2014 51.93 34.05 Second Quarter 2014 48.36 35.75 First Quarter 2014 53.39 41.89 Fourth Quarter 2013 41.96 30.00 Third Quarter 2013 37.14 30.23 Second Quarter 2013 34.36 28.49 First Quarter 2013 29.55 21.66 Fourth Quarter 2012 23.10 20.74 Third Quarter 2012 21.15 13.56 Second Quarter 2012 15.13 12.02 First Quarter 2012 16.32 11.51 CSR ADSs $ High Low Month February 2015 53.45 51.28 January 2015 52.70 51.40 December 2014 53.00 52.01 November 2014 53.77 51.28 October 2014 54.90 41.44 September 2014 51.93 47.55 152 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Return of capital to shareholders Share buyback During 2014, CSR undertook open-market purchases of its ordinary shares.
The purchases, which are set forth in the table below, were instituted by the Board of CSR under authorities granted by shareholders at general meetings.
Maximum Number Total Number of Shares or Approximate Dollar Value Purchased as Part of of Shares or units that May Issuer Purchases of Equity Total Number of Average Price Paid Publicly Announced Yet be Purchased Under the 1, 2 2 Securities Period Start date End date Shares Purchased per Share pence Plans or Programmes Plans or Programmes May 2014 1 May 30 May 2,843,000 562.09 2,843,000 June 2014 2 June 30 June 2,275,026 599.99 2,275,026 July 2014 15 July 31 July 503,200 571.30 503,200 August 2014 1 Aug 27 Aug 739,502 539.65 739,502 $8.5m 1 On 26 February 2014, CSR announced its intention to undertake a buyback of its ordinary shares of up to $50 million the First 2014 Share Buyback.
Pursuant to the general authorities obtained from shareholders at the Annual General Meetings held on 22 May 2013 and 21 May 2014, in the period from 1 May 2014 to 30 June 2014, the Company completed the purchase of 5,118,026 ordinary shares in the open market, all of which were cancelled.
As at the close of the share buyback on 30 June 2014, the full $50 million had been expended.
See Share capital Other Statutory Information for more information.
For the First 2014 Share Buyback, the Company entered into arrangements with J. P. Morgan Securities plc such that the Company purchased shares from J. P. Morgan Securities plc who had itself, acting as principal, first made market purchases of such shares.
J. P. Morgan Securities plc acted as an independent third party, which allowed the First 2014 Share Buyback to continue to be undertaken following the end of the second financial quarter for the 2014 financial year, during what would otherwise have been a prohibited period of the Company.
2 In June 2014, the Board authorised a further share buyback of up to $20 million the Second 2014 Share Buyback.
Under the Second 2014 Share Buyback, purchases were made in the open market between 15 July 2014 and 27 August 2014 under a general authority provided by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
A total of approximately $11.5 million, excluding commission, was expended and as at 27 August 2014, being the last day on which shares were acquired under the authority, 1,242,702 ordinary shares had been repurchased, all of which were cancelled.
After this date the buyback was suspended due to the announcement on 28 August 2014 of the approach to the Company by Microchip Technology Inc. with regards to a possible offer for CSR.
On 15 October 2014, as mentioned earlier, the offer from Qualcomm was announced, and in view of this and as previously advised, the Board does not intend to undertake any further share buybacks prior to the completion of this transaction.
This general authority is renewed generally on an annual basis.
3 In the calculation of the approximate dollar value of the shares that may yet be purchased, under the Second 2014 Share Buyback, which was determined to be $8.5 million, excluding commission.
Over the past three years, diluted earnings per ordinary share has increased from $0.25 in 2012 to $0.55 in 2014 and profit per 52 week period has increased over the same period from $51.2 million at the end of 2012 to $96.8 million at the end of 2014.
This trend can be attributed to improvements in operating expenses and gross margins, which have more than offset the decrease in revenue, as well as the recognition of gains on disposal of both development operations in handset location and handset connectivity in 2012 $127.2 million and disposal of Imaging IP in 2014 $14.9 million.
We recognised a loss in 2013, largely due to impairment charges of $76.9 million following the announcement to discontinue investment in the camera-ona-chip COACH platform in December 2013.
Of the impairment charges recorded in 2013, $23.3 million were reversed in 2014.
The diluted share count decreased from 203.2 million in 2012 to 175.6 million in 2014.
This trend can be attributed to the impact on the diluted share count of the completion of the tender offer at the end of 2012, during which CSR repurchased and subsequently cancelled 49.1 million shares, as well as subsequent buybacks in 2013 and 2014, under which a further 14.8 million shares were repurchased.
The effect of the buybacks and tender offer on the diluted share count have been partially offset by the issue of 25.0 million ordinary shares, to satisfy employee share options and shares awards and other equity releases, as well as an increased dilutive effect of outstanding share options and awards due to share price increases over the same period.
The total shareholder return over the three year financial period ended 26 December 2014 was 375.4%, as the share price increased from 1.84 at the beginning of the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2012 to 8.49 as at 26 December 2014.
The improvements in the share price over this period have been driven by growth in underlying earnings per ordinary share, the completion of a $285 million tender offer, as well as the repurchase of 17.3 million ordinary shares, and the receipt of a recommended cash offer for the Group of 900 pence per ordinary share from Qualcomm.
Total shareholder return has also been underpinned by a progressive dividend policy.
Dividend It was the Boards intention to follow a progressive dividend policy that reected the underlying growth prospects of the Company.
In light of the terms of the Qualcomm Transaction, the Board does not intend to pay, or to recommend for payment, any dividend at this time.
com 153 Corporate and share information continued Exchange rates The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, average, high and low exchange rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
None of the holders of CSR ordinary shares have voting rights that differ from those of other shareholders.
JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, held approximately 1.21% of the Companys ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each at 16 March 2015 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 16 March 2015 were 2,004,732.
As of 16 March 2015, there were 197 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders, representing approximately 1.34% of CSRs outstanding share capital.
Because many of our ordinary shares are held by brokers and nominees, the number of recorded shareholders in the United States may not be representative of the number of beneficial shareholders in the United States.
CSR is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any government, person or other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to CSR that could result in a change of control of CSR, other than the Qualcomm Transaction mentioned above.
Agent in the United States The Companys agent for service in the United States is National Registered Agents, Inc, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904.
Documents on display Under the Exchange Act, we are required to le reports and other information with the SEC.
Copies of these reports and other information, when so led, including documents referred to in this Annual Report, may be inspected without charge and may be obtained at prescribed rates at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at Judiciary Plaza, 100 F Street, N. E. Washington, D. C. 20549.
For further information regarding the operation of the public reference room and the copy charges, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains a website at www.
gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding registrants that make electronic lings with the SEC using its EDGAR system.
As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the ling and content of quarterly reports and proxy statements, and our executive ofcers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
This Annual Report is also available, free of charge, at www.
You may also obtain copies of this Report, free of charge, by mail by requesting a copy from the Company Secretary.
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law, as currently in effect.
This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the United Kingdom or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Articles of Association of CSR plc were led with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 6-K on 8 December 2014.
Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, as currently in force, are available from the US Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.
Objects and purposes CSR plc was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 26 March 2001 with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited, as a private company limited by shares under the Companies Act 2006.
On 10 July 2001, CSR was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings plc: on 25 October 2002, CSR was re-registered as a private company limited by shares with the name Cambridge Silicon Radio Holdings Limited: and on 19 February 2004, it was re-registered as a public company limited by shares with the name CSR plc registered number 04187346.
Directors The business of the Company is conducted under the supervision of the Board.
Conicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company who is in any way interested, directly or indirectly, in a contract or proposed contract with the Company to declare the nature and extent of his interest to the other directors of the Company.
The Companies Act 154 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 2006 also requires that a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the companys interests.
It allows the non-conicted directors of public companies to authorise such conicts where appropriate, if a companys articles of association so permit.
CSRs Articles of Association provide that the Board may in specified circumstances authorise any matter that would otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a conict of interest.
They also provide that, subject to authorisation of such conict, a director may retain any benefit derived by reason of that interest.
Borrowing powers The Board may exercise the Companys borrowing powers.
Save with the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution, no money shall be borrowed if the principal amount outstanding of all borrowings by the group exceeds, or would as a result of such borrowing exceed, an amount equal to the greater of 300,000,000 and three times the Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Retirement The Companys Articles of Association state that a director shall retire from ofce and may offer himself for re-appointment when he has been appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting, held ofce in the preceding two annual general meetings and did not retire at either of them, or has been in ofce, other than employment or executive ofce, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all directors will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 May 2015 and offering themselves for re-election.
This is explained in further detail in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is a separate document issued to shareholders.
Director qualifying shares Directors of the Company are not required by the Memorandum or the Articles of Association to hold any shares in the Company.
Rights and restrictions attaching to the shares Dividend rights The shareholders may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of CSR, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or similar rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or xed dividends on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of CSRs shares from a person with at least a 0.25% interest in CSR shares or in a class of CSR shares if such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide CSR with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution, offer shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend the right to elect to receive shares by way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment must be forfeited and revert to CSR unless the Board decides otherwise.
CSR may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable inquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
In addition, CSR must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Voting rights Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
Under the Companies Act 2006: a on a show of hands every member who is present in person is entitled to one vote regardless of the number of shares he or she holds.
Every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution.
The Articles of Association provide that, where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive voting rights than he could exercise in person.
The Articles of Association provide that resolutions put to a vote at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a show of hands, unless a poll is demanded by: a the chairman of the meeting: b not less than five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote: c a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote on the resolution: or d a member or members present in person or by proxy and holding shares in CSR conferring a right to vote at the meeting being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
com 155 Corporate and share information continued A demand for a poll may be withdrawn with the consent of the chairman of the meeting at any time before the close of the meeting or the taking of the poll, whichever is the earlier.
A demand so withdrawn shall not invalidate the result of a show of hands declared before the demand was made.
Under English law, any shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the company.
Rights to share in profits Other than the provisions outlined above in relation to dividends that have been declared and the provisions below in relation to rights on a liquidation of CSR, shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of CSR.
Pre-emptive rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, any equity securities issued by CSR for cash must first be offered to CSR shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of CSR ordinary shares.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules made by the UK Listing Authority, allow for the disapplication of pre-emption rights, which may be waived by a special resolution of CSR shareholders, either generally or specically, for a maximum period not exceeding five years.
Liquidation rights The rights of shareholders to share in any surplus in the event of liquidation are not expressly dealt with in the Articles of Association.
Under English law, if CSR is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, under supervision of the Court, or by the Court, the liquidator is under a duty to collect in and realise the assets of CSR and to distribute them to CSRs creditors, and, if there is a surplus, to CSR shareholders according to their entitlements.
This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or of different kinds.
Redemption provisions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules, CSR may purchase or contract to purchase any of its ordinary shares on or off-market.
CSR may only purchase its ordinary shares out of distributable reserves or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose of funding the repurchase.
Sinking fund provisions CSR shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under its Memorandum or Articles of Association or under English law.
Capital calls Shareholders have no liability for capital calls by the Company save that the directors can call on shareholders to pay the unpaid amount, if any, respecting their shares consisting of the nominal value of the shares and any premium which may be payable on those shares.
Variation of rights The Articles of Association provide that the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting, the quorum must be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equally with them General meetings The Articles of Association rely on the Companies Act 2006 provisions dealing with the calling of general meetings.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held once in every year within a period of six months beginning with the day following CSRs accounting reference date.
CSRs Board may convene a general meeting of shareholders whenever they think t or where they are requisitioned to do so by CSR shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
General meetings may be held at such time and place as may be determined by CSRs Board.
An annual general meeting must be convened on at least 21 days written notice to shareholders entitled to receive notices.
General meetings must be convened on at least 21 days written notice unless the requisite majority of shareholders has agreed to short notice.
Under the Articles of Association, two shareholders must be present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote to constitute a quorum for all purposes at general meetings of CSR.
Pursuant to the authority obtained at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the Company can call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on 14 days notice.
Please see Notice required for shareholder meetings under Other Statutory Information on page 80 for further information.
Limitation on voting rights Persons who are neither residents in the UK nor UK nationals may freely hold, vote and transfer shares in the same manner as UK residents or nationals.
Any member whose registered address is not within the UK can give the Company a postal address within the UK or an address for electronic communications at which notices may be served on him.
Otherwise, a member whose registered address is not within the UK is not entitled to receive any notice from the Company.
156 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Restrictions on share transfers A summary of the restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company is: 1. the Board can decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share: 2. registration of a transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncerticated securities rules and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertifcated share is to be transferred exceeds four: or 3. the Board may decline to register any transfer of a certicated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is duly stamped or duly certied or otherwise shown to be exempt from stamp duty and is left at the place stipulated by the Board accompanied by the share certicate to which it relates unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company is not required to issue a certicate and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the person signing the instrument of transfer to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is signed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: ii the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and iii in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
Change of control The Company was previously able to issue additional shares with any rights or restrictions attached to them as long as they were not restricted by any rights attached to existing shares.
These rights or restrictions could be decided by the directors so long as there was no conict with any resolution passed by the shareholders.
The ability of the directors to issue shares with rights or restrictions that were different than those attached to the currently outstanding ordinary shares could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing change of control of the Company.
The Company is not permitted to issue new shares under the terms of the Qualcomm Transaction, subject to certain exceptions.
Any shares that are issued on or before the Scheme Record Time as dened in the scheme document sent to shareholders on 12 November 2014 will be issued subject to the terms of the scheme of arrangement, as required by the articles of association amended on 4 December 2014.
Disclosure of interests in shares The UK Financial Conduct Authority and Disclosure and Transparency Rules impose an obligation upon a person who acquires or ceases to have notiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company to notify the company of that fact within two days excluding weekends and bank holidays of his or her knowing of its occurrence.
The disclosure threshold is 3% and each 1% threshold above 3%.
In addition, the Companies Act 2006 provides that a public company may, by notice in writing, require a person whom the company knows or reasonably believes to be or to have been within the three preceding years, interested in the companys issued voting share capital to 1 confirm whether this is or is not the case, and 2 if this is the case, to give further information that the company requires relating to his interest or any other interest in the companys shares of which he is aware.
The Articles of Association provide that if the holder of any shares or a person who appears to be interested in those shares, fails to comply within the relevant period with any statutory notice in respect of those shares, or makes a statement in response to the notice which is false or inadequate in a material particular, CSR may restrict the rights relating to the identied shares, following a restriction notice.
The restriction notice will state that the identied shares no longer give the shareholder any right to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any right in relation to the shareholders meetings.
Where the identied shares make up 0.25% or more in amount or in number of the existing shares of a class at the date of delivery of the restriction notice, the restriction notice can also contain the following further restrictions: i the Board can withhold any dividend or part of a dividend or other money otherwise payable in respect of the identied shares without any right to the holder to receive any shares in lieu of dividend: and ii the Board can refuse to register a transfer of any of the identied shares which are certicated shares unless the Board is satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Once a restriction notice has been given, the Board is free to cancel it or exclude any shares from it at any time they think t. In addition, it must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of being satisfied that all information requested in the statutory notice has been given.
Also, where any of the identied shares are sold and the Directors are satisfied that they were sold outright to an independent third party, they must cancel the restriction notice within seven days of receipt of the notication of the sale.
The Articles of Association do not restrict in any way the provision of the legislation which apply to failures to comply with notices under the legislation.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers imposes rigorous disclosure requirements affecting parties to a proposed takeover, their associates and persons acting in concert in relation to the shares of a company.
These requirements also extend to dealings by persons who directly or indirectly own or control either before or as a result of the dealing 1% or more of the equity shares in an offeror or offeree company or of any other class of shares relevant to the offer in question.
These requirements have applied and continue to apply in respect of the Qualcomm Acquisition.
Rule 13d-1 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 requires that a person or group acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 5% of equity securities registered under that Act discloses such information to the SEC within 10 days after the acquisition.
CSR is required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority to disclose in its annual report the identity and share interests of its directors and any persons connected with them, as dened in the Companies Act 2006, and of any person with an interest of 3% or more of its CSR ordinary shares.
Please see pages 80 and 81 of Other Statutory Information.
com 157 Corporate and share information continued Persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs primarily directors and some senior executives, and their connected persons, must notify a public company such as CSR in writing of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their own account in the shares of the company, or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares within four business days of the day on which the transaction occurred.
The notication must contain specified information, including the name of the person involved, the type of transaction, the date on which it occurred, and the price and volume of the transaction.
The public company must notify a regulatory news service which will make the information public of any information notied to it in accordance with these provisions.
The notication to a regulatory news service must be made as soon as possible, and in any event by no later than the end of the business day following the receipt of the information by the company.
In addition to the directors and taking into account their roles and responsibilities, we regard as PDMRs the General Counsel, the SVP Business Group and the Chief Technical officer.
Dierences from law in host country With respect to the items described above, applicable UK law is not signicantly different from applicable US law.
Changes in share capital CSR may by ordinary resolution increase, consolidate, subdivide, or consolidate and then subdivide its shares or any of them.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, CSR, by resolution, may determine that, as between shares resulting from a subdivision, any of them may have a preference or advantage, or may be subject to restrictions as compared with the others.
CSR may, by special resolution and with the approval of the court, reduce its share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other undistributable reserve.
Material contracts Excluding contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business, no contracts have been entered into in the two years preceding the date of this document by CSR or any other member of the Group that are considered material to its results or operations, other than the Cooperation Agreement with Qualcomm Global Trading Pte.
Ltd. QGT, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated Qualcomm dated 15 October 2014.
On 15 October 2014, CSR announced that it had reached agreement with Qualcomm regarding the terms of a recommended cash offer through which the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of CSR will be acquired by QGT, to be effected by means of a court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement under the Companies Act 2006 the Qualcomm Transaction.
Under the terms of the Qualcomm Transaction, each Scheme Shareholder, as dened in the Scheme Document issued to shareholders on 15 November 2014, will receive 900 pence in cash for each CSR ordinary share held.
On 15 October 2014, CSR and QGT entered into a Cooperation Agreement in connection with the Qualcomm Transaction, pursuant to which QGT has agreed to use reasonable endeavours to implement the Qualcomm Transaction and satisfy the conditions that relate to antitrust clearances.
In addition, on 3 September 2014, CSR and Qualcomm signed a Non Disclosure Agreement in connection with the proposed transaction.
Exchange controls There are no government laws, decrees, regulations or other legislation in the United Kingdom that affect the export or import of capital, including, but not limited to, UK foreign exchange controls on the payment of dividends, interest or other payments to shareholders resident outside the UK.
There are currently no limitations on the right of non-UK residents or non-UK shareholders to hold or vote CSR ordinary shares imposed by English law or CSRs Articles of Association.
Taxation US Holders US federal income tax matters The following general discussion describes the material US federal income tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares that are generally applicable to US holders as dened below.
However, this discussion does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to particular US holders in light of their personal investment or tax circumstances or to persons that are subject to special tax rules.
In addition, this discussion does not address the tax treatment of special classes of US holders, such as financial institutions, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, dealers or traders, persons that actually or constructively own 10% or more of the total combined voting stock of CSR, persons holding CSR ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedging or conversion transaction or as part of a straddle, US expatriates, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, and persons whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
This discussion may not be applicable to holders who acquired CSR ADSs or ordinary shares pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants or otherwise as compensation.
Furthermore, this discussion does not address any US federal estate or gift tax considerations, or state, local or non-US tax considerations.
We urge you to consult your own tax advisor as to the specic tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, including the applicable US federal, state, local and non-US income and other tax consequences to you of the ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
158 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information As used in this discussion of US federal income tax consequences, a US holder means a holder of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares who or that holds such ADSs or shares as a capital asset within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Internal Revenue Code, and is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or individual resident of the United States, ii a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation organised under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust a if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary jurisdiction over its administration and one or more US persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or b that has a valid election in effect under applicable Treasury regulations to be treated as a US person.
If a pass-through entity, including a partnership or other entity classied as a partnership for US federal income tax purposes, is a beneficial owner of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, the US federal income tax treatment of an owner or partner generally will depend upon the status of such owner or partner and upon the activities of the pass-through entity.
Any owner or partner of a pass-through entity holding CSR ADSs or ordinary shares is urged to consult its own tax advisor.
This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue Code, applicable US Department of the Treasury regulations, judicial authority, and administrative rulings and practice, all as of the date of this Annual Report.
All of the preceding authorities are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect, so as to result in US federal income tax consequences different from those discussed below.
CSR has not requested, and will not request, a ruling from the US Internal Revenue Service the IRS with respect to any of the US federal income tax consequences described below, and as a result there can be no assurance that the IRS will not disagree with or challenge any of the conclusions CSR has reached and describes herein.
Ownership of ADSs For US federal income tax purposes, a US holder of CSR ADSs generally will be treated as the owner of the underlying shares represented by the ADSs.
Accordingly, withdrawals or deposits of ordinary shares in exchange for CSR ADSs generally will not be subject to US federal income taxation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the US Department of the Treasury has expressed concerns that intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of an ADS and the issuer of the security underlying the ADS may be taking actions that are inconsistent with the beneficial ownership of the underlying shares for example, pre-releasing ADSs to persons who do not have the beneficial ownership of the securities underlying the ADSs.
Accordingly, the analysis of the creditability of United Kingdom taxes and the availability of the reduced rate of tax for dividends received by certain non-corporate US holders, as described below, could be affected by actions taken by intermediaries in the chain of ownership between the holder of CSR ADSs and CSR if, as a result of such actions, the holders of CSR ADSs are not properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
We are not aware of any intention to take any such actions, and accordingly, the remainder of this discussion assumes that holders of CSR ADSs will be properly treated as the beneficial owners of the underlying ordinary shares.
Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules Special US federal income tax rules apply to US holders owning stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC.
A non-US corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which i 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or ii 50% or more of the average value of its assets are considered passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
For this purpose, passive income generally includes, among other things, interest, dividends, rents, royalties, certain gains from the sale of stock and securities and other investment income, and all cash is treated as a passive asset.
CSR believes that it was not a PFIC for its taxable year ended 26 December 2014.
In the event the Qualcomm transaction does not close, based on the nature of anticipated income, assets and activities, CSR does not expect to become a PFIC for its taxable year ending 1 January 2016 or in the foreseeable future.
However, the determination of PFIC status for any year can only be made on an annual basis at the end of such taxable year, is based on the application of complex US federal income tax rules and will depend on the composition of CSRs income, assets and operations from time to time.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the determination made by CSR concerning its PFIC status or that CSR will not be a PFIC for any taxable year.
If CSR were classied as a PFIC, for any year during which a US holder holds CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, regardless of whether CSR continues to be a PFIC, the US holder would be subject to special, adverse rules including taxation at maximum ordinary income rates plus an interest charge on both gains on sale and certain dividends, unless the US holder makes an election to be taxed under an alternative regime.
Certain elections may be available to a US holder if CSR were classied as a PFIC.
CSR will continue to monitor whether it is or will become a PFIC and will provide US holders with information concerning the potential availability of such elections if CSR so determines.
US holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
com 159 Corporate and share information continued Distributions Subject to the PFIC rules described above, for US federal income tax purposes, a US holder will generally include in gross income the amount of any distribution paid by CSR to the extent paid out of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, as dividend income when the distribution is actually or constructively received by the depositary, in the case of CSR ADSs, or by the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares.
Non-corporate US holders currently are taxed at a maximum rate of 20% on dividends received from qualied foreign corporations, provided the US holders satisfy certain holding period and other requirements.
In order to be treated as a qualied foreign corporation, CSR must be eligible for benets of the United States income tax treaty with the United Kingdom.
Although CSR believes that it is currently eligible for such treaty benets, there can be no assurance that this will be the case for any taxable year.
Further, non-corporate US holders will not be eligible for the reduced rates of dividend taxation if CSR is a PFIC for the taxable year of the dividend payment or the preceding taxable year.
Corporate US holders will be taxed on dividends received from CSR at a 35% tax rate.
Dividends generally will be income from sources outside of the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes, and generally will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction that is allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Distributions in excess of CSRs current and or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the US holders tax basis in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and thereafter as capital gain.
The amount of a distribution includible in the income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the distribution determined at the spot rate on the date that distribution is eligible for inclusion in the income of the US holder, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars at such time.
A US holder will have a basis in any GBP distributed by CSR equal to the US dollar value of the GBP on the date it is actually or constructively received by the US holder.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange uctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is includible in income to the date that payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss.
Sale, exchange or other taxable disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares Subject to the PFIC rules described above, upon a sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, a US holder will generally recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the US holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Gain or loss recognised will be long-term capital gain or loss with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares held for more than 12 months at the time of the sale or other disposition and any gain recognised generally will be income from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
Backup withholding and information reporting In general, dividend payments with respect to CSR ADSs or ordinary shares and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares made or deemed made within the United States may be subject to information reporting to the IRS and US backup withholding currently at a rate of 28%.
Backup withholding will generally not apply to a holder who or that: furnishes a correct taxpayer identication number and certies, under penalties of perjury, that such holder is not subject to backup withholding on a Form W-9, and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules: is a corporation or otherwise exempt from backup withholding and, when required, demonstrates this fact: or provides a certication of foreign status on Form W-8BEN or a successor form.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability, provided the holder furnished the required information to the IRS in a timely manner.
In addition, certain US holders who are individuals that hold specified foreign financial assets which may include CSR ADSs or ordinary shares will be required to report information relating to such assets, subject to certain exceptions.
US holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the effect, if any, of this requirement on their ownership and disposition of CSR ADSs or ordinary shares.
Additional tax on investment income US holders that are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds will be subject to a 3.8% Medicare contribution tax on unearned income, including, among other things, dividends on, and capital gains from the sale or other disposition of, CSR ADSs or ordinary shares, subject to certain limitations and exceptions.
US holders should consult their tax advisors regarding the possible implications of the additional tax on investment income described above.
UK tax matters The following paragraphs summarise the material UK tax consequences for investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes including US investors who are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes regarding ownership and disposal of CSR ordinary shares.
The following paragraphs, which are intended as a general guide only, are based on current UK tax legislation and what is understood to be HM Revenue & Customs the UK tax authority practice, both as of the date of this Annual Report, and both of which are subject to change at any time, possibly with retrospective effect.
They summarise certain limited aspects of the UK tax treatment of holders of CSR ordinary shares and apply only to the position of holders of CSR ordinary shares who for UK tax purposes are beneficial owners of their CSR ordinary shares, hold their CSR ordinary shares as an investment and not as assets to be realised in the course of a trade and are not treated as having acquired their CSR ordinary shares by reason of their or anothers employment.
They do not apply to holders of CSR ADSs.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs who are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult an appropriate professional adviser.
160 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Taxation of dividends Under current UK tax legislation, no tax will be withheld by CSR from cash dividend payments.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident outside the UK will generally not receive any payment from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of any tax credit on dividends paid by CSR.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are not resident in the UK and who do not carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired will not generally be liable to pay any UK tax in respect of any dividends received on their CSR ordinary shares.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are resident in the UK or who carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or permanent establishment in connection with which their CSR ordinary shares are held, used or acquired are should consult an appropriate professional adviser.
Taxation of capital gains A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is not resident in the UK will not ordinarily be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposal of CSR ordinary shares, unless, at the time of the disposal in the case of an individual shareholder he or she carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation or branch or agency or in the case of a corporate shareholder it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the UK and those shares are, or have been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade or permanent establishment.
A holder of CSR ordinary shares who is an individual and who is temporarily resident outside the UK may be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains arising during the period of absence, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax No UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares.
Subject to the paragraph below, where CSR ordinary shares are issued or transferred i to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services a Clearance Service or ii to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts a Depositary Receipt System, UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 in the case of UK stamp duty.
The UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be paid by the Clearance Service or the Depositary Receipt System, as the case may be, but will, in practice, generally be required to be reimbursed by CSR or by the holder of the CSR ordinary shares or CSR ADSs in question.
A Clearance Service can elect under section 97A of the Finance Act 1986 Section 97A, provided certain conditions are satisfied, for the normal rate of UK stamp duty or UK SDRT generally no charge on issue and a charge at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, rounded up to the nearest 5 in the case of UK stamp duty, on transfer to apply to issues or transfers of CSR ordinary shares into, and transactions within, such Clearance Service instead of the higher rate of 1.5% generally applying to an issue or transfer of CSR ordinary shares into the Clearance Service and the ability to transfer CSR ordinary shares while in the Clearance Service without there being UK stamp duty or UK SDRT.
Following a decision of the European Court of Justice in October 2009, HM Revenue & Customs have announced that they will not seek to apply the 1.5% UK SDRT charge where new shares are first issued or, where it is integral to the raising of new capital, new shares are transferred into a Clearance Service or a Depositary Receipt System.
Thus, the 1.5% UK stamp duty or UK SDRT charge will apply only to the transfer of existing shares to Clearance Services or Depositary Receipt Systems in circumstances where the transfer is not integral to the raising of new capital.
Investors should be aware that this area may be subject to further developments in the future.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will generally be payable on the issue of CSR ordinary shares into CREST the London Stock Exchanges paperless trading system.
Subject to an exemption for certain low value transactions, the transfer on sale of CSR ordinary shares in certicated form will generally give rise to a liability, usually met by the purchaser, to ad valorem UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 of the amount or value of the consideration paid.
An agreement to transfer such shares which is or becomes unconditional will generally give rise to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, such UK SDRT generally being payable by the transferee or purchaser.
The liability to UK SDRT will generally be cancelled or any UK SDRT paid will be refunded if the agreement is completed by a duly stamped transfer within six years of either the date of the agreement or, if the agreement was conditional, the date when the agreement became unconditional.
A transfer of CSR ordinary shares on a paperless basis through CREST will generally be subject to UK SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration paid, which will be collected and accounted for to HM Revenue & Customs by CREST such UK SDRT generally being borne by the transferee or purchaser.
No UK stamp duty or UK SDRT will arise on a transfer of CSR ordinary shares into CREST provided that, in the case of UK SDRT, the transfer is not for money or moneys worth.
Generally, a gift of CSR ordinary shares or a transfer of such shares from a nominee to the beneficial owner will give rise to neither UK stamp duty nor UK SDRT.
The above statements are intended only as a general guide to the current UK stamp duty and UK SDRT position.
Transfers to certain categories of person are not liable to UK stamp duty or UK SDRT and transfers to others may be liable at a higher rate.
Holders of CSR ordinary shares who are in any doubt as to their tax position should consult an appropriate professional adviser.
com 161 Corporate and share information continued Risks Related to owning CSR ordinary shares and ADSs We may be treated as a PFIC.
As a non-US corporation owning substantial cash assets, there is an ongoing risk that we may be treated as a passive foreign investment company PFIC for US federal income tax purposes depending on the ratio of the value of our assets, including goodwill, to our holdings of cash and liquid assets such as bank deposits and marketable securities.
A non-US corporation generally will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year in which 75% or more of its gross income is passive income, or 50% or more of the average value of its assets consists of passive assets generally, assets that generate passive income.
This determination is highly factual, and will depend on, among other things, our market valuation and future financial performance.
We believe we were not a PFIC for the taxable year ended 26 December 2014, but if we were to be classied as a PFIC for any future taxable year, holders of ordinary shares or ADSs who are US taxpayers would be subject to adverse US federal income tax consequences.
See page 159 for more information on PFICs.
Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom will suer dilution if they are unable to participate in future pre-emptive equity oerings.
Under English law, shareholders usually have pre-emptive rights to subscribe on a pro rata basis in the issuance of new shares for cash.
The exercise of pre-emptive rights by certain shareholders not resident in the United Kingdom may be restricted by applicable law or practice in the United Kingdom and overseas jurisdictions.
In particular, the exercise of pre-emptive rights by US shareholders would be prohibited unless that rights offering is registered under the US Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act applies.
Furthermore, under the Deposit Agreement for the ADSs, the Depositary Bank generally will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the US Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the US Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs.
If no exemption applies and we do not wish to register a rights offering, shareholders in the United States may not be able or permitted to exercise their preemptive rights.
We are also permitted under English law to disapply pre-emptive rights subject to the approval of our shareholders by special resolution and investor committee guidance on the limits of any such disapplication and thereby exclude certain shareholders, such as overseas shareholders, from participating in a rights offering usually to avoid a breach of local securities laws.
The rights of our shareholders will be governed by English law and dier from the rights of stockholders under US law Because we are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, the rights of shareholders and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, will be governed by English law and by the Articles.
These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in US corporations.
For example, the rights of shareholders to bring proceedings against us or our directors or ofcers or generally on behalf of a class of shareholders or other claimants may be more limited under English law than under the corporate law and case law of US jurisdictions.
Shareholders in countries other than the United Kingdom may have difficulty in effecting service of process on us or our directors in the US, in enforcing US judgments in the UK or in enforcing US securities laws in the UK courts.
Most of our directors and some of the experts named in this document are residents of countries other than the United States.
As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders in countries other than the UK to effect service of process within the United States upon all of our directors and executive ofcers and some of the experts named in this document or on us, or to obtain discovery of relevant documents and or the testimony of witnesses.
Our shareholders in countries other than the UK may have difficulties enforcing, in courts outside the United States, judgments obtained in the US courts against any of our directors and some of the experts named in this document or us including actions under the civil liability provisions of the US securities laws.
Those shareholders may also have difficulty enforcing liabilities under the US securities laws in legal actions originally brought in jurisdictions located outside the United States.
The market value of our ADSs and dividends may be adversely aected by uctuations in the exchange rate between the USdollar and the pound sterling.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the pound sterling will affect the US dollar price of our ADSs and the market value of ordinary shares when expressed in US dollars.
If the relative value of sterling to the US dollar declines, the US dollar price of the ADSs and the US dollar equivalent of the price of ordinary shares traded on the London Stock Exchange will also decline.
We paid, and may in the future pay, cash dividends on the ordinary shares in sterling.
A decline in the relative value of sterling to the US dollar would also result in a decline in the US dollar value of these dividends.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs is volatile.
Stock markets in general during the past few years have experienced significant price and volume volatility.
Technology stocks in particular have experienced wide uctuations in prices, in some cases unrelated to the issuers operating performance.
Our ordinary shares and ADSs are subject to significant uctuations due to many factors, including but not limited to uctuations in results of operations, acquisitions, litigation, announcements of new products, product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts, and general market conditions or market conditions specic to particular industries.
Our share price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market trends unrelated to our performance.
The market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could be adversely affected by these factors and uctuations.
162 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The proposed transaction with Qualcomm may disrupt our business and, if the transaction does not occur, the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may decline.
In October 2014, CSR and Qualcomm announced that agreement had been reached on the terms of a recommended cash offer through which our entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital will be acquired by Qualcomm under a scheme of arrangement pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions.
The scheme of arrangement was approved by shareholders in December 2014, and the parties expect that it will become effective by late summer 2015.
The proposed transaction, whether or not consummated, may disrupt our operations and business and may divert managements attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations.
Moreover, we may incur unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the proposed transaction, some of which are payable by us whether or not the proposed transaction is consummated.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
The proposed acquisition is subject to closing conditions, such as the satisfaction of certain regulatory conditions, including antitrust clearances in China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the United States.
Although pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement Qualcomm has agreed to use reasonable endeavours to implement the acquisition and satisfy the conditions that relate to antitrust clearances, the closing conditions may ultimately not be satisfied on time or at all.
If the proposed acquisition is not completed, the share price of our Ordinary Shares and ADSs may change to the extent that the current market price of our securities reects an assumption that the acquisition will be completed, and it may decline signicantly.
Liquidity in the market for our securities may be adversely aected by our maintenance of two exchange listings.
Our ADSs are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market and our ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the Ofcial List and trade on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
This dual listing may dilute the liquidity of our securities in one or both markets.
Holders of our ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote Except as described in the Deposit Agreement, holders of ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights on an individual basis, and must instruct the Depositary Bank on how to vote the shares underlying their ADSs.
Because of this extra procedural step involved, the process for exercising voting rights could take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of ordinary shares and, as a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to effectively exercise voting rights.
