Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued IFRS 12 amended Amendments for investment entities Improvements to IFRSs December 2013 Improvements to IFRSs September 2014 The adoption of both IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 will impact both the measurements and disclosures of financial instruments and revenue recognition respectively.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 15 until a detailed review has been completed.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
3 Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments and financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value given in exchange for goods and services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The consolidated financial statements cover the 52 week period from 28 December 2013 to 26 December 2014: the comparatives are presented for the 52 week period from 29 December 2012 to 27 December 2013 and income statement comparatives for the 52 week period from 31 December 2011 to 28 December 2012.
The consolidated financial statements are reported on a 52 or 53 week basis to be consistent with the Groups internal reporting.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements.
Control is achieved where the Company has power over the investee, is exposed and has right to, the variable returns from its involvement with the investee and had the ability to use its power to affect its return from that entity.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in sales, general and administrative expenses as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classied in equity are not recognised.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition date amounts of identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benets will ow to the Group and delivery has occurred or the service has been provided, the sales price is xed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured.
These criteria are generally met at the time the product is shipped and delivered to the customer and, depending on the delivery conditions, title and risk have passed to the customer and acceptance of the product, when contractually required, has been obtained, or, in cases where such acceptance is not contractually required, when management has established that all aforementioned conditions for revenue recognition have been met and no further postshipment obligations exist other than obligations under warranty.
Revenues are recorded net of sales taxes, customer discounts, rebates and similar charges.
For products for which a right of return exists during a dened period, revenue recognition is determined based on the historical pattern of actual returns, or in cases where such information is lacking, revenue recognition is postponed until the return period 92 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements has lapsed.
Revenue is shown net of estimated provision for credit notes and returns.
A provision for product warranty is made at the time of revenue recognition and reects the estimated costs of replacement and free of charge services that will be incurred by the Company with respect to the sold products.
Royalty income, which is generally earned based upon a percentage of sales or a xed amount per royalty earning product, is recognised upon shipment by the licencee as long as recovery is reasonably assured.
When a transaction requires the delivery of more than one product or service multiple components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the separately identiable components.
A component is considered to be separately identiable if the product or service delivered has stand-alone value to that customer and the fair value associated with the product or service can be measured reliably.
The amount recognised as revenue for each component is the fair value of the element in relation to the fair value of the arrangement as a whole.
We determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations with reference to substantive renewal rates within the agreement or objective evidence of fair value.
In instances where we are unable to determine the fair value of our maintenance obligations, revenue for the entire arrangement is recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
We recognise maintenance and support revenue ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Software license revenue is recognised fully upon delivery, where there is no obligation to provide ongoing technical support or software upgrades or enhancements.
If technical support, software upgrades and enhancements are sold with the software license, revenue will be recognised for each identied component based on the relative fair value of the delivered component for which consideration is received or receivable.
With regards to technical support, the revenue would be recognised ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Leasing Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Foreign Currencies The functional currency of all entities in the Group is the US dollar and this is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions in currencies other than US dollars are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period except for exchange differences on transactions entered into to hedge certain foreign currency risks see policy on Hedge Accounting.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group enters into forward contracts see Financial Instruments policy for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative financial instruments.
R&D Tax Credits Following the changes made to the claiming of R&D tax credits in the 2013 Finance Act, UK R&D tax credits, for qualifying R&D expenditure incurred subsequent to 1 April 2013, have been accounted for under IAS 20 Government Grants and Disclosure and recognised within operating profit loss.
The expected R&D tax credit is accrued as qualifying R&D expenditure is incurred and has been offset against Research & Development expenditure within the income statement.
Operating Result Operating profit loss is stated before investment income, exchange losses, finance costs and tax.
Retirement benefit Costs The Group has both a dened contribution retirement scheme and a dened benefit plan.
Payments to dened contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
The dened benefit plan represents severance payments required under Israeli law to employees who joined the Israeli subsidiary prior to 2007 who leave the Group involuntarily.
These severance payments are funded by investment funds held in the name of each employee, with the Company liable for meeting any shortfall, and meet the denition of a post-employment dened benefit plan under IAS 19.
A liability is recognised in the balance sheet in relation to the dened benefit scheme, as the present value of the dened benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The nancing cost, service cost and expected returns on plan assets are recognised within the Income statement in the period in which they arise.
com 93 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Where the carrying amount of scheme assets exceed the present value of the future benets that are expected to ow to the scheme from those assets the asset ceiling, the surplus is recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which this arises.
Taxation The current tax expense represents the sum of the current tax expense and the deferred tax expense for the period.
The tax charge is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit loss before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences, unused carried forward tax losses and unused carried forward tax credits can be utilised.
However, such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit: or investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be nally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benets are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise and the liability can be reliably measured.
The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets, less estimated residual value, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight line method, on the following basis: Computer equipment 2 to 3 years Test equipment 2 to 5 years Ofce equipment 3 years Furniture and ttings 5 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of useful life or minimum lease period In general residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held.
Residual values are reviewed annually.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
94 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements Other Intangible Assets Other intangible xed assets are stated at cost or fair value for items acquired in business combinations, net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
No amortisation is provided on assets in the course of construction.
On other intangible xed assets, amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or fair value, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life as follows: Software licences and intellectual property Licence term or 3 to 5 years where a perpetual licence Customer contracts and relationships 3 to 4 years Purchased IPR&D 4 to 10 years Internally developed technology 3 years Purchased developed technology 3 to 4 years Trade names 2 years In general, residual values are zero or negligible, due to the technical and specialised nature of assets held.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost net of any provision for impairment.
Costs included are those that directly relate to the construction or production of the asset.
Research and Development Expenditure Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups product development is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identied such as a new device or software : the project from which the asset arises meets the Groups criteria for assessing technical feasibility: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benets: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Internally generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are tested for impairment annually.
All non-financial assets, tangible and intangible, are reviewed for impairment on the occurrence of events or circumstances which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss would be recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of a non-financial asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
After the recognition of an impairment loss, any depreciation or amortisation charge for the asset is adjusted for future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying value, less estimated residual value, on a systematic basis, over its remaining useful life.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but the reversal is limited so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Loans and Receivables Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classied as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any www.
com 95 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued impairment or appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Treasury deposits Treasury deposits are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of a treasury deposit is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Treasury deposits consist of money market deposits in USD, GBP and obligations of the United States government treasury with original maturities of over ninety days.
Interest income is recorded as it accrues over the period of the investment at rates xed at the time of inception.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Financial Assets at FVTPL Fair Value Through profit and Loss Financial Assets classied within FVTPL are those that are held for trading, this being assets, principally United States government xed income securities, that have been acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term or derivative financial instruments in designated hedging relationships for which the hedged item has been recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The net gain or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the investment income line in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 31.
Available for sale financial assets The Group has investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but are classied as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses, which are recognised directly in the income statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassied into profit or loss.
fide-recognition of Financial Assets The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
Impairment of Financial Assets Financial assets, other than those held at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impaired.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Trade Payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction cost.
Subsequently these are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest recognised on an effective yield basis.
Equity Instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial Liabilities at FVTPL Fair Value Through profit and Loss Financial liabilities are classied as FVTPL where the financial liability has been designated as FVTPL or are derivative financial instruments in designated hedging relationships for which the hedged item has been recognised in the income statement.
fide-recognition of Financial Liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative Financial Instruments The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Further details of derivative financial 96 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements instruments are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of directors, which provides written principles on the use of financial derivatives.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
Hedge Accounting Hedges of foreign exchange risk on rm commitments are accounted for as cash ow hedges.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 75% and 90% of forecast GBP expenditure a rm commitment for the following 11 to 15 months.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on a quarterly basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of the hedged item.
Cash Flow Hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled into the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions for warranty and returns costs are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
Provision is made for onerous contracts at the fair value of the minimum unavoidable payments, net of any amounts recoverable.
Where amounts are known and timings certain, onerous amounts are accrued instead.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Share-based Payment The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, including share options with non-market based vesting conditions.
Equity settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model for most of share options in issue.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For certain share options which include Absolute Total Shareholder Return ATSR related conditions the fair value is estimated through the use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, the Group recognises a liability for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Employee benefit Trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in CSR plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the consolidated accounts and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Contingent liabilities A contingent liability may arise where there is possible obligation that arises from past events, whose occurrence or non-occurrence will www.
