Non-GAAP measures We prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS, however we also report alternative measures that we call underlying.
We believe that these measures give management and users a clearer understanding of the ongoing performance of the group, ignoring the impact of items that we deem to be exceptional and which may distort trends.
Underlying measures are financial metrics that different from those required under IFRS.
To calculate underlying measures we exclude three types of transactions from the results reported under IFRS 1 From time to time events occur which due to their size or nature are considered separately to the Groups ongoing performance.
The gains and losses of such items can have a material impact on the Groups profit in either one year, or as a trend.
Such items include: The impact of significant disposals such as the Samsung transaction during 2012: The cost of business transformations following such transactions: Costs arising from the proposed Qualcomm Transaction during 2014: The impact of any impairments of assets acquired on acquisitions, including goodwill.
Where such events are excluded we provide additional analysis to enable these discrete events to be understood by users of the financial statements 2 Costs arising from movement in the valuation of share options, including the tax impact of these changes, since we believe this reects a non-cash cost which may obscure the trends in the underlying business.
Such charges are calculated on a number of assumptions which are outside of the Groups control such as the volatility of markets, comparator performance and employee behavior.
3 The impact of other non-cash accounting adjustments that are required under IFRS, the impact of which is outside the Companys control such as fair value adjustment on acquisition, and the unwind of these through ongoing amortisation.
We believe that such charges obscure trends in underlying business performance.
The table on page 145 specically defines our underlying measures in comparison with the measures required under IFRS: What do we use underlying measures for?
We use underlying measures to evaluate performance and value creation: make resource allocation decisions: provide performance targets for management remuneration and reward and target long term growth opportunities Why do we report these underlying measures in the financial statements?
We present underlying measures in these financial statements as we believe they provide consistency between the way the business is reported, and the the way management view the business and discuss its performance with investors: share metrics with all investors at the same time: disclose the main drivers of management remuneration and reward and assist investors in understanding management decisions and the long term value of CSR.
Are underlying measures robust and reliable to use?
CSR cautions that whilst we define our underlying measures in detail on page 145, these are not dened terms under IFRS or any other GAAP, and therefore the denitions should be carefully reviewed by investors.
Investors should be aware that the denition of underlying measures can differ between companies, even if such measures have similar names.
In particular: underlying measures are not intended to be a substitute for IFRS measures: underlying measures are not superior to the IFRS measures reported: The adjustments made between underlying and IFRS measures are in some cases recurring.
We do not represent that these are outside the normal course of business and Some of these adjustments are based on managements judgement in terms of both classication and estimation.
144 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
