Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued only be confirmed by uncertain future events or where a present obligation arises from past events but where an outow of resources from the Group is not probable and or the amount of the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
In these circumstances, the Group discloses the nature of such contingent liabilities.
The Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation and an outow of resources from the Group is probable and can be reliably measured.
Treasury shares The Group holds shares in its own equity that it has reacquired as part of a share buy-back programme.
The shares are shown as a deduction in equity and are measured at the fair value of the shares purchased and transaction costs.
Dividend distribution A dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which the dividends are committed to be paid.
In the case of a final dividend distribution, this will also be the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
Investments in subsidiaries Company only Investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost, plus capital contributions and less provisions for impairment.
4 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires the directors to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.
Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The directors constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact they may have on the Groups balance sheet and performance.
Critical accounting judgements Revenue recognition Sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the buyer, it is probable that economic benets associated with the transaction will ow to the Group and both the amount of revenue and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Management assesses at the point of delivery whether the above criteria have been met and revenue is recognised accordingly.
Estimates are made for reductions to revenue from pricing agreements, price protection, other volume based rebates and expected returns, considering such factors as sales history and shipment information.
Development expenditure At the point that development expenditure satisfies all specic criteria, as specified within IAS 38 Intangible Assets refer to the research and development expenditure policy, in note 3, for a description of the criteria, it must be capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over its expected useful economic life.
Management has considered the criteria for capitalisation of development expenditure and concluded that as the commercial viability of the products being designed is not typically confirmed until the very end of the development process, the significant majority of CSRs development costs cannot be capitalised.
Chips will only become commercially viable if they can be produced at a commercial manufacturing yield, with minimal waste from failing to satisfy quality requirements.
Without high manufacturing yields, chips are not cost effective to produce and cannot be sold at a gross profit.
Once commercial viability has been demonstrated the next phase of product development is to enter mass production, at which point subsequent development expenditure is highly immaterial.
The amount of development expenditure capitalised in 2014 was $nil 2013: $nil.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Taxation Managements judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, principally the United Kingdom.
These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, we therefore make a number of judgements and interpretations about the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax laws or our interpretations of these laws and the resolution of future tax audits could signicantly impact our effective tax rate and the results of operations in a given period.
Where it is probable that a position may be successfully challenged by revenue authorities, a tax provision is created for the tax on the probable adjustment.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets.
Although the deferred tax assets which have been recognised are considered realisable, actual amounts could be reduced if future taxable income is lower than expected.
This could materially affect the Groups reported profit or loss and balance sheet.
Share-based payments Non-market vesting conditions, namely continued employment throughout the vesting period, are included in assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to be issued from the exercise of share options or awards.
CSR models the number of awards or 98 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements options that are expected to vest based on managements estimates of future employee turnover rates.
Corresponding adjustments are made throughout the vesting period, to both the income statement and equity, to reect the actual number of employees who leave employment before the vesting date, thereby not satisfying this vesting condition.
Valuation of certain assets and liabilities In certain situations CSR bases the valuation of its assets and liabilities on its assessment of the future actions of third parties.
This includes the likelihood that customers make warranty claims, actions taken by third parties to mitigate such claims, litigation activity, and performance conditions of certain contractual arrangements.
CSR bases its valuation judgments on an assessment of the current situation with the relevant third parties following discussions and negotiations, historical precedent in such scenarios and an assessment of the likelihood and impact of each event arising.
In 2014 such judgments impacted the carrying value of the cash held under Escrow arrangements disclosed within Short term assets in note 18, our litigation provisions and any contingent liabilities.
In 2013 such judgments impacted the cash in Escrow, litigation provisions, and certain financial liabilities.
The basis of our decisions in each of these is detailed in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Forecasts and discount rates Management uses both forecast data and discount rates in the following instances: Inventory valuation The level of inventory provisioning is assessed with reference to the number of units of product held in inventory at the balance sheet date, in comparison to the expected demand for product based on forecast data for sales for the next six months.
In most instances, where the amount of inventory held exceeds the expected demand for that inventory, a provision will be made for the excess inventory.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment relevant for 2013 The Group assesses the carrying value of identiable intangible assets, long-lived assets and goodwill annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.
In order to assess the recoverable amount of Cash Generating Units CGUs, and in turn the recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and long lived assets allocated to these CGUs, value in use calculations are performed using forecast data of discounted cash ows, derived from both the budget for the next financial year, longer range plans covering the subsequent four years and a terminal value, derived from the final year of the longer range plan.
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have been recognised where management believes there are sufficient taxable temporary differences or it is probable, based on forecast data, that sufficient taxable profit will be available in future to realise deferred tax assets Forecast data is subject to assumptions concerning the growth in future sales, based on managerial estimates about conditions in the Groups markets, as well as projected production costs and operating expenditures.
Discount rates are derived based on managements assessment of risk inherent in the current business model.
Changes in forecast data and or discount rates could have a significant impact on the Groups balance sheet and performance.
In 2014, the recoverable value of goodwill and other intangible assets was estimated as the fair value less costs of disposal based on the offer price received from Qualcomm, as disclosed in the Scheme Document published in November 2014.
Costs of disposal were also estimated based on the Scheme Document updated to reect the actual costs incurred to date.
The recoverable value was then allocated to CGUs based on the proportion of value in use of each CGUs generated during the 2013 impairment testing.
As such, the review for impairment in goodwill and other intangible assets was not subject to the same level of estimation uncertainty in 2014, in comparison to 2013. www.
