CSR in review Strategic report Governance Other information Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information CSR plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered ofce is Churchill House, Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge, CB4 0WZ, United Kingdom.
CSR is a provider of multifunction semiconductor platforms for the consumer electronics market.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of CSR plc the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together the Group drawn up to the dates indicated in the primary financial statements and are presented in US dollars because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going concern.
The issues surrounding going concern are discussed regularly by the Board and were evaluated as part of the Groups budget for the next financial year and the Groups longer term plans.
Note 31 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash ow management.
The Group has $283.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits as at 26 December 2014 and no debt liabilities.
After considering the above factors, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2 Adoption of New and Revised Standards Standards not aecting the reported results nor the balance sheet: The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current period.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these consolidated financial statements but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 7 amended Amendment related to the offsetting of assets and liabilities IAS 19 amended Amended standard resulting from the post-employment benets and termination benets projects IAS 27 amended Separate financial statements IAS 28 amended Investments in associates and joint ventures Improvements to IFRSs May 2012 At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not yet been applied in these consolidated financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases, had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IAS 16 amended Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 16 amended Amendments bringing bearer plants into the scope of IAS 16 Amended to clarify the requirements that relate to how contributions from employees or third parties IAS 19 amended that are linked to service should be attributed to periods of service IAS 27 amended Amendments for investment entities Amendments regarding the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or IAS 28 amended joint venture IAS 36 amended Amendments arising from Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets IAS 38 amended Amendments regarding the clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 39 amended Amendments for novations of derivatives IAS 41 amended Amendments bringing bearer plants into the scope of IAS 16 Amendments regarding the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or IFRS 10 amended joint venture IFRS 11 amended Amendments regarding the accounting for acquisitions of an interest in a joint operation www.
