Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34 Acquisition of Reciva business On 23 June 2014, Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited, a subsidiary of CSR plc, entered in to a sale agreement to purchase certain assets and a development team from Reciva Limited subsequently re-named as Blue Cedar Ridge Limited for total consideration of $5.0 million.
Reciva aggregates internet radio and streaming music services in the cloud and provides a common interface which can stream multiple services to internet connected audio products.
The acquisition will enhance CSRs Voice & Music segment by adding streaming audio capabilities to its networked audio products via CSRs service delivery platform.
The acquisition note is shown below: Recognised amounts of assets acquired at fair value $000 Intangible assets 3,100 Provisions 91 Net assets acquired 3,009 Allocation to goodwill 1,991 Total consideration 5,000 satisfied by: Cash 4,500 Contingent consideration 500 Total consideration transferred 5,000 Net cash outow at balance sheet date Cash consideration 5,000 Directly attributable costs 85 5,085 The contingent consideration was dependent upon the delivery of certain intellectual property, by Blue Cedar Ridge Limited to Cambridge Silicon Radio Limited, and was paid on 31 October 2014.
The goodwill arising on acquisition is attributable to future income from new customer contracts, as well as the expertise of the five members of staff who have transferred to CSR.
It is not anticipated that any of the goodwill will be deductible for income tax purposes.
Directly attributable costs amounted to $0.1 million and have been recorded within SG&A expenses.
The contribution from the acquired business to the Groups revenue and to the Groups profit for the period between the date of the acquisition and the balance sheet date is negligible.
35 Disposal of Development Operations On 17 July 2012, the Group entered into a conditional binding agreement with Samsung the Samsung Transaction, for the transfer of development operations in handset connectivity and location, including 311 people, together with certain rights over the Groups technology in these areas.
None of the revenues associated with the Groups existing handset products were transferred as part of the transaction.
This transaction was completed on 4 October 2012.
The Consideration was subject to adjustment by up to $5 million in certain circumstances relating to the achievement of contractual milestones.
As at 27 December 2013 the fair value of the probabilities of these possible circumstances and their outcomes were assessed and a liability of $5 million was recognised accordingly 28 December 2012: fair value of $nil.
This liability was paid during the 52 weeks ended 26 December 2014.
The disposal was effected so that the Group could concentrate investment and resources on its five high growth markets of Voice & Music, Automotive Infotainment, Indoors Location, Imaging and Bluetooth Smart, accelerate its higher margin platform strategy and improve the Groups overall market position.
130 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
