Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable I confirm to the best of my knowledge: law and regulations.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit are required to prepare the Group financial statements in or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards consolidation taken as a whole: IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the 2.
The Strategic report, which is incorporated into the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Directors report, includes a fair review of the development Company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the and performance of the business and the position of the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company risks and uncertainties that they face: and and of the profit and loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 3.
The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a required to: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the properly select and apply accounting policies: Companys performance, business model and strategy.
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and By order of the Board understandable information: Toby Hayward provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Interim Chief Executive specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users 30 April 2015 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
104 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
