AccounTing policies Year ended 31 March 2014 redemption rate of the promotion.
The redemption rate used is Basis of preparation dependent on the promotional mechanic.
Management consider The consolidated and Company financial statements have been this to be an area of judgment that is significant due to the potential prepared on a historical cost basis.
They are presented in sterling size of the claims.
and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
iv The sale of the St Hubert business will result in tax payable in France both on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have payments made to the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the date of disposal in August 2012.
An estimate has been made of the European Union EU.
The separate Company financial statements likely tax costs resulting from these transactions however the final have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU assessment has yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies which may result in a change to the level of tax provisioning.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to The key areas where judgment has been applied are i The timing publish its individual income statement and related notes.
and nature of exceptional costs and ii the judgment that for IFRS 8 purposes only one segment should be reported on.
Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, i Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have are disclosed separately in the Consolidated Income Statement as adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Management consider this to be an area of judgment For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of preparing the financial statements.
See the Going Concern exceptional costs.
Statement on page 63 of the Directors Report.
ii Following the restructure of the Group to a single operating unit in The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk 2013, management has judged that following the implementation of of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets a new structure, the Group comprises one segment under IFRS 8. and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement of the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and equipment ii the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
assets and obligations iii the calculation of promotional discount accruals and iv the estimation of tax costs in France in relation to changes in accounting policies the sale of St Hubert.
The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the international Accounting standards iAs iFRss cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The iFRs 1 Amendment to IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of effective 1 January 2013 goodwill.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the iFRs 13 Fair Value Measurement effective from 1 January 2013 selection of a suitable discount rate.
Goodwill in Dairies was fully iFRs 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: impaired in the year ended 31 March 2012.
Disclosures effective 1 January 2013 iFRs 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and iFRs 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a 2014 risk of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of iFRs 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2014 the cash-generating units in which these assets reside.
The iFRs 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of effective 1 January 2014 assets.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the iAs 1 Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements selection of a suitable discount rate.
effective from 1 July 2012 iAs 19R Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits effective In the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group tested the intangible from 1 January 2013 assets, property, plant and equipment of the Dairies cashiAs 32 Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments effective generating unit for impairment due to indicators of impairment being from 1 January 2014 present.
Three key assumptions in performing the test included the iAs 27 Separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2014 projected value and timing of cash flows from property sales, the iAs 28R Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective 1 allocation of corporate costs following the restructure of the January 2014 business to a single operating unit and the projected profit growth.
iAs 32 Improvement to IAS 32: Financial Instruments effective 1 The result of the test was that no impairment was required however July 2013 the headroom was low and therefore sensitive to the above iFRs 3 Improvement to IFRS 3: Business Combinations effective assumptions.
1 January 2013 ii Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires international Financial Reporting interpretations committee estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected iFRic return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
iFRic 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine effective from 1 January 2013 iii The group accrues for customer claims against agreed promotional funding.
Accruals are calculated based on an estimated Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 75 The numbers ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED The application of these standards has had no material impact on interest in associates the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the ended 31 March 2014 with the exception of the amendments to equity method of accounting.
Associates are entities over which the IAS19R Employee Benefits.
The principal impact on the Group of Group exerts significant influence.
The Company and its associates the application of this standard is the requirement to use the use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in associates are discount rate when calculating expected returns on the asset carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition component of pension cost.
This change has resulted in higher changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in charges to the Consolidated Income Statement for the pension value and any distributions received.
The consolidated income interest cost.
There is no material impact on the reported pension statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates.
liabilities each year end as the impact in the Consolidated Income Where there has been a change recognised directly in the Statement is mitigated by an offsetting change in the calculation of associates other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive share of such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other comprehensive income.
Income namely the difference between actual and expected asset returns will increase.
Foreign currency translation The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc Further details are included in note 20 to the accounts.
and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Sterling.
The impact of IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional Statements has resulted in a presentation change to the currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets consolidated statement of comprehensive income that requires the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into other comprehensive income to be grouped into one of the Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on following: monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow To be reclassified to profit and loss in subsequent years: or hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
not to be reclassified to the profit and loss in subsequent years On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange international Accounting standards iAs iFRss rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net iAs 16 Improvement to IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less effective 1 July 2014 exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a iAs 38 Improvement to IAS 38: Intangible Assets effective hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate 1July2014 component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions iAs 24 Improvement to IAS 24: Related Party Disclosure effective are met.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency 1 July 2014 borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a iFRs 13 Improvement to IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, effective 1 July 2014 at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups property, plant and equipment financial statements in the period of initial application.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the consolidation purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Freehold buildings: 25 years on which control is transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries continue Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period to be consolidated until the date that control ceases.
of the lease Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it i derecognises Office equipment: 4 to 6 years the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii Vehicles: 4 to 10 years derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for recorded in other comprehensive income: iv recognises the fair impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that value of any investment or associate retained: v recognises any the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement: and vi exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering goodwill, are Dairies fully impaired, Spreads, MH Foods and determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
These represent the lowest level at which goodwill Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income business sold.
statement in the year that it is derecognised.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the Borrowing costs transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction recorded under previous accounting rules.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the intangible assets cost of the respective assets.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected period they occur.
economic benefits flow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any investments accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have finite impairment where appropriate.
useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years.
Acquired intangible assets principally comprise acquired brands and, following the sale Business combinations and goodwill of St Hubert, principally the Frylight brand which was considered to Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using have a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
the acquisition method previously used the purchase method.
Thecost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value Intangible assets generated internally comprise software or at the proportionate share of acquirees identifiable net assets will development expenditure.
Software development is carried at cost be determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven costs incurred are expensed to profit and loss.
Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in the acquisition see above less net identifiable amounts of the assets circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Research and development Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no Recoverable amount of non-current assets impairment was identified.
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its subsequently amortised.
recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment inventories loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is each product to its present location and condition.
net realisable Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 77 The numbers ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business required to this estimate is done at period 6 and period 12 based on less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
updated calculations provided by the scheme actuary.
Trade and other receivables Scheme admin costs that are not directly related to investment activities are charged to the profit and loss account.
Admin costs Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original that are directly related to investment are recognised as part of the invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An re-measurement exercise through the OCI reserves.
estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Scheme admin costs, net pension interest and employer cash contributions including any additional contributions are posted to cash and cash equivalents the retirement obligation on the balance sheet.
At the half year and Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and full year an updated actuarial valuation is obtained from external short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Any movement in the pension asset liability resulting from For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and changes in assumptions, or differences between expected and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined actual asset returns namely actuarial gains or losses are taken to above, net of bank overdrafts.
the statement of comprehensive income in full along with the related deferred tax impact.
interest bearing loans All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value net Where there is a potential pension surplus, further work would be of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, undertaken by external advisors to ascertain the limit if any on any interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured surplus that can be recognised.
The present value of benefits from at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised reduced company contributions beyond the agreed minimum cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any funding level agreement form the upper limit for any recognisable discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are surplus IFRIC 14. recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Any potential tax implications of an estimated scheme surplus would be allowed for in the total pension liability, transacted via deferred tax net debt assets and OCI reserves.
The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and finance leases.
The Any event that has a material impact on the scheme would be calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial discussed with the scheme actuary.
Examples of a material event instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to fix foreign would be a merger or acquisition or the implementation of an currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow insurance buy-in.
In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes Where a scheme-wide curtailment gain occurs because of any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as amendments to the plan, the gain is recognised when the plan terms held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility fees.
are amended even if the impact will only take effect in future accounting periods.
The announcement itself of scheme term Retirement benefit obligations changes does not trigger a curtailment gain.
The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a defined benefit scheme and defined contribution schemes.
share based payments equity based performance payments Defined contribution schemes The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation to payment schemes for which they receive services from employees the Group.
Members of these schemes will contribute a percentage in consideration for the equity instrument.
Equity-settled share of their salary into the scheme and the Company will pay an based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant additional amount into the scheme.
The size of an individuals date by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In pension on retirement is based on the performance of the asset valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any portfolio and is not linked to salary.
Company contributions to the service and performance vesting conditions, other than scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the same performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the period as services are rendered by the relevant employee.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled Defined benefit schemes to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like Under these pension arrangements the individual and company market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken make contributions into a scheme and future benefits to individuals into account in determining the grant date fair value.
are guaranteed subject to final salary, number of years service, future inflation and other factors.
Scheme assets and future liabilities The cost of equity settled transactions with employees is measured are recorded in the sponsoring companys balance sheet as one net by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over asset or obligation.
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance sheet The company has closed its defined benefit scheme and therefore no date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, current service costs are required to be charged to Income Statement.
representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments At the beginning of each financial year the scheme actuaries will that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since provide an estimate of the interest cost on the net scheme liability the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income deficit.
This interest is charged credited to finance income charges in statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
the profit and loss account in each reporting period.
Any correction 78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or better understanding of the underlying operational performance of non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items.
provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
government and other grants Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods award is expensed immediately.
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the released to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected Companys balance sheet.
useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
employees share ownership plan esop income tax The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such enacted at the balance sheet date.
shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 as indicated below.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable leased assets temporary differences except: Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of nor taxable profit or loss: and lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with the year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Revenue Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, sales within the Group.
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals where the Group accrues for customer claims against agreed promotional funding.
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible This is an area of judgment that management consider significant temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset due to the potential size of the claims.
Accruals are calculated based or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, on an estimated redemption rate of the promotion.
The redemption at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit rate used is dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers nor taxable profit or loss: and known historic data on the performance of that mechanic.
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent payment is established.
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against other income which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed householddepots.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no exceptional items longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated Income all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that which result from a restructuring of the business or some other Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 79 The numbers ACCOUnTInG POLICIES COnTInUED are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the Other Comprehensive Income and the ineffective portion is liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation that had previously been recognised in Other Comprehensive authority and that authority permits the group to make a single net Income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition payment.
cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Other Income tax is charged or credited to Other Comprehensive Income Comprehensive Income are transferred to the Consolidated Income if it relates to items that are charged or credited to Other Statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net Comprehensive Income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives directly to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising Consolidated Income Statement.
from changes in fair value are taken directly to the Consolidated Income Statement for the year.
Financial assets The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within Fair value measurement the scope of IAS 39 as: The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction loans and receivables: between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair held-to-maturity investments: or value measurement is based on the presumption that the available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: The Group and Company determines the classification of financial In the principal market for the asset or liability, or assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they market for the asset or liability are measured at fair value.
The Group and Company currently hold only loans and receivables.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured Derivative instruments using the assumptions that market participants would use when The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest their economic best interest.
rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using fair value at each balance sheet date.
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
values for similar instruments and specific valuations performed by counterparties at the balance sheet date.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that either: is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: identical assets or liabilities cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast indirectly observable transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input exposure.
that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial hedges during the year.
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by recash flow hedges assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument each reporting period.
that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014
