Accounting policies Company Basis of preparation Dividends The financial statements of fide La Rue plc Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends the Company have been prepared under payable to the shareholders of the the historical cost convention and have Company are recognised in the period been prepared in accordance with the that they are approved by the shareholders.
Companies Act 2006 and applicable Interim ordinary dividends are recognised UK accounting standards.
in the period that they are paid.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act Retirement benefits 2006, the Company is exempt from the The pension rights of the Company requirement to present its own profit and employees are dealt with through a loss account.
The Company has taken self administered scheme, the assets advantage of the exemption in Financial of which are held independently of the Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7, Groups finances.
The scheme is a defined Financial Instruments: Disclosures, not to benefit scheme that is funded partly by prepare a financial instrument note as the contributions from members and partly information is included in the published by contributions from the Company consolidated financial statements of and its subsidiaries at rates advised by the Group.
In accordance with FRS 17, The Company has taken advantage the Company accounts for its contributions of the exemption from preparing a cash as though it were a defined contribution flow statement under the terms of FRS 1, scheme.
This is because the underlying cash flow statements.
assets and liabilities of the scheme The accounts have been prepared as at cover the Company and a number of its 29 March 2014, being the last Saturday in subsidiaries and those assets and liabilities March.
The comparatives for the 2012 13 cannot be split between each subsidiary financial year are for the period ended on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Full details of the scheme and its deficit measured on an IAS 19R basis can The following accounting policies have been be found in note 22 to the consolidated applied consistently in dealing with items financial statements.
which are considered material in relation to the Company financial statements.
Financial guarantee contracts Where the Company enters into financial Foreign currencies guarantee contracts to guarantee the Amounts receivable from overseas indebtedness of other companies within subsidiaries which are denominated the Group, the Company considers in foreign currencies are translated into these to be insurance arrangements and sterling at the appropriate year end rates accounts for them as such.
In this respect, of exchange.
Exchange gains and losses the Company treats the guarantee contract on translating foreign currency amounts as a contingent liability until such time as are included within the interest section it becomes probable that the Company of the profit and loss account except for will be required to make a payment under exchange gains and losses associated with the guarantee.
hedging loans that are taken to reserves.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Such exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 104
