Strategic report Directors report Accounts Accounting policies The Company As a result of IAS 19 2011, the Group As a consequence and notwithstanding fide La Rue plc the Company is a has changed its accounting policy with the net liability position being reported in public limited company incorporated respect to the basis for determining the the consolidated balance sheet, which and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
income or expense related to its defined has primarily arisen due to the value The address of its registered office is benefit scheme.
Under IAS 19 2011, of the deficit in the retirement benefit disclosed on page 108 of this annual report.
the Group determines the net interest obligations, or the uncertainty as to the The consolidated financial statements expense for the period on the net defined outcome of the paper production issues of the Company for the period ended liability by applying the discount rate used noted on page 5, the Directors have a 29 March 2014 comprise the Company to measure the defined benefit obligation reasonable expectation that the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to at the beginning of the annual period to and the Group are well placed to manage as the Group and the Groups interest the defined benefit asset at the beginning their business risks and to continue in in associates.
The Company financial of the annual period, taking into account operational existence for the foreseeable statements present information about the any changes in the net defined benefit future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue Company as a separate entity and not asset during the period as a result of to adopt the going concern basis in about its Group.
The principal activities contributions and benefit payments.
In preparing the annual report and accounts.
of the Group are described in note 1. addition, pension administration charges Basis of consolidation are now charged against operating profit.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements European Union EU law IAS Regulation The impact of the change has been incorporate the financial statements of EC 1606 2002 requires that the to increase operating costs by 1.2m the Company and entities controlled consolidated financial statements, for the 2012 13: 1.7m, increase the net interest by the Company its subsidiaries up to period ended 29 March 2014, be prepared expense by 6.7m 2012 13: 6.1m, 29 March 2014.
Control exists when the in accordance with international financial reduce taxation by 1.8m 2012 13: 1.9m, Company has the power to govern the reporting standards IFRS as adopted with compensating adjustments in other financial and operating policies of an entity by the EU.
These consolidated financial comprehensive income leaving equity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
statements have been approved by the unchanged.
This has reduced profit after In assessing control, potential voting rights Directors and prepared in accordance with tax by 6.1m 2012 13: 5.9m, and that are currently exercisable are taken IFRS including interpretations issued by the reduced underlying and basic EPS by 6.1p into account.
The results of subsidiaries International Accounting Standards Board.
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated financial Basis of preparation A number of other new and amended IFRS statements from the date that control The consolidated financial statements have were issued during the year which do not commences or until the date that control been prepared under the historical cost become effective until after 29 March 2014. ceases.
The majority of the subsidiaries convention with the exception of certain None of these are likely to have a material prepare their financial statements up to items which are measured at fair value as impact on the Group for the 2014 15 year.
29 March except for certain subsidiaries disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The Groups business activities, together whose year end is 31 December.
In The accounts have been prepared as at with the factors likely to affect its future the case of the subsidiaries whose 29 March 2014, being the last Saturday in development, performance and position financial statements are made up to March.
The comparatives for the 2012 13 are set out on pages 6 to 23 of the 31 December 2013, results for the period financial year are for the period ended strategic report.
In addition, pages 84 to 90 to 29 March 2014 and the balance sheet as 30 March 2013. include the Groups objectives, policies and at 29 March 2014 have been consolidated.
The Company has elected to prepare its processes for financial risk management, On acquisition, the assets, liabilities financial statements in accordance with details of its financial instruments and and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary UK generally accepted accounting practice hedging activities and its exposure to credit are measured at their fair values at the UK GAAP.
risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing date of acquisition.
The financial position of the Group, its The principal accounting policies adopted cost of acquisition over the fair values cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing in the preparation of these consolidated of the identifiable net assets acquired is facilities are described on page 17 of the financial statements are set out below or recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of strategic report.
have been incorporated with the relevant the cost of acquisition below the fair values notes to the accounts where appropriate.
The Group meets its funding requirements of the identifiable net assets acquired These policies have been consistently through cash generated from operations ie discount on acquisition is credited applied to all the years presented, unless and a revolving credit facility which expires to the income statement in the period of otherwise stated.
Where necessary, adjustments and projections, which cover a period of are made to the financial statements During the period a number of more than 12 months, taking into account of subsidiaries to bring the accounting amendments to IFRS became effective reasonably possible changes in normal policies used into line with those used and were adopted by the Group, none trading performance, show that the by the Group.
of which had a material impact on the Group should be able to operate within its Groups net cash flows, financial position, All intra-Group transactions, balances, currently available facilities.
The Group has total comprehensive income or earnings income and expenses are eliminated sufficient financial resources together with per share, other than IAS 19 Employee on consolidation.
assets that are expected to generate cash benefits, which requires retrospective flow in the normal course of business.
adoption and therefore prior periods have been restated.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 71 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies Net investment in foreign operations Critical accounting judgements and The significant accounting policies adopted Foreign currency differences arising key sources of estimation uncertainty in the preparation of these consolidated on the re-translation of a financial liability Management has discussed with the Audit financial statements have been designated as a hedge of a net investment Committee the development, selection incorporated into the relevant notes where in foreign operations are recognised in and disclosure of the Groups critical possible.
General accounting policies the translation reserve to the extent the accounting policies and estimates and the which are not specific to an accounting hedge is effective.
To the extent that the application of these policies and estimates.
note, for example foreign exchange, hedge is ineffective, such differences are Management is required to exercise are set out below.
recognised as finance income or costs in significant judgement in the application the income statement.
Cumulative gains of these policies.
Estimates are made in Foreign currency or losses in equity arising since the date many areas and the outcome may differ Foreign currency transactions of transition to Adopted IFRS are taken from that calculated.
The key assumptions These financial statements are presented to the income statement on disposal concerning the future and other key in sterling, which is the functional and of the foreign operation.
sources of estimation uncertainty at the presentational currency of the Company.
balance sheet date that have a significant The functional currency of Group entities Revenue recognition risk of causing a material adjustment to the is principally determined by the primary Group revenue predominantly represents carrying amounts of assets and liabilities economic environment in which the sales to external customers of within the next financial year are set respective entity operates.
manufactured products which fall within out below.
the Groups ordinary trading activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies entered This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Revenue recognition into by Group entities are translated into Customer contracts within the Currency the functional currencies of those entities Revenue is recognised in the income business will often include specific at the rates of exchange at the date of the statement to the extent that it is probable terms that impact the timing of revenue transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities that the economic benefits associated recognition.
The timing of the transfer denominated in foreign currencies at the with the transaction will flow into the Group of risks and rewards varies depending on balance sheet date are translated at the and the amount can be reliably measured.
the individual terms of the sales agreement.
rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign In practice, the timing of the transfer of For sales of products and associated exchange differences arising on translation risks and rewards varies depending on components, when sold separately, are recognised in the income statement.
the transfer usually occurs on loading For sales of products and associated Foreign currency non-monetary items the goods onto the relevant carrier or, components, when sold separately, measured in terms of historical cost are at an earlier point in time when conditions the transfer usually occurs on loading translated at the rate of exchange at are met for recognition of revenue on a the goods onto the relevant carrier or, the date of the transaction.
Exchange bill and hold basis.
Judgement is used at an earlier point in time when conditions differences on non-monetary items are in interpreting these terms and conditions are met for recognition of revenue on a recognised in line with whether the gain in assessing when the risks and rewards bill and hold basis.
or loss on the non-monetary item itself have been transferred to the customer is recognised in the income statement Revenue on service based contracts especially where they include complex or in equity.
is recognised as services are provided.
If the services under a single arrangement In order to hedge its exposure to certain Valuation of work in progress are rendered in different reporting foreign exchange risks, the Group enters At any point in time, the Group has periods, or under an arrangement that into forward contracts refer to note 12 significant levels of inventory work in also includes the sale of goods, then the for details of the Groups accounting progress.
Currency manufacturing is a consideration is allocated on a relative fair policies in respect of such derivative complex process and the final product value basis between the sale of goods and financial instruments.
is required to be made to exacting rendering of services and then allocated specifications and tolerance levels.
Financial statements of foreign operations to the appropriate reporting periods in In valuing the work in progress at the Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, accordance with the transfer of risks and balance sheet date, assessments are including goodwill and intangible assets, rewards and the contractual life of the made over the level of waste contained are translated at the exchange rate service contract.
within the product based on the production prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and costs on project based performance to date and past experience.
Income and expenses are translated contracts are recognised by reference at average exchange rates which to the stage of completion, based on the approximate to actual rates.
Exchange work performed to date and the overall differences arising on retranslation are contract profitability.
The assessment of recognised in the Groups translation the stage of completion is dependent on reserve, which is a component of equity.
the nature of the contract and is assessed When a foreign operation is sold, exchange by reference to reviews of work performed, differences that were recorded in equity are achievement of contractual milestones recognised in the income statement as part and costs incurred.
of the gain or loss on sale.
Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRS, are presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1. fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 72 Strategic report Directors report Accounts Intangible assets Other accounting judgements, The Group tests annually whether goodwill estimates and assumptions and other assets that have indefinite Tax useful lives are impaired.
Other assets are The Group is subject to income taxes reviewed for impairment whenever events in numerous jurisdictions and significant or changes in circumstances indicate judgement is required in determining the that the carrying amount of the asset worldwide provision for those taxes.
The exceeds its recoverable amount.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised recoverable amount of an asset or a cash is dependent on subjective judgements as generating unit is determined based on to the outcome of decisions to be made value in use calculations prepared on the by the tax authorities in the various tax basis of managements assumptions and jurisdictions around the world in which estimates of future cash flows, discounted the Group operates.
It is necessary to at suitable rates.
consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment Pension obligations of the extent to which they are regarded Pension costs within the income statement as recoverable, which involves assessment and the pension obligations as stated in of the future trading prospects of individual the balance sheet are both dependent statutory entities.
The actual outcome upon a number of assumptions chosen by may vary from that anticipated.
These include the rate used final tax outcomes differ from the amounts to discount future liabilities, the expected initially recorded, there will be impacts upon longevity for current and future pensioners income tax and deferred tax provisions and and estimates of future rates of inflation.
on the income statement in the period in The discount rate is the interest rate that which such determination is made.
should be used to determine the present Exceptional items value of estimated future cash outflows The Directors consider items of income expected to be required to settle the and expenditure which are both material pension obligations.
In determining the by size and or by nature and non-recurring appropriate discount rate, the Group should be disclosed separately in the considers the interest rates of high quality financial statements so as to help provide corporate bonds that are denominated an indication of the Groups underlying in the currency in which the benefits will business performance.
The Directors label be paid, and that have terms to maturity these items collectively as exceptional approximating to the terms of the related items.
Determining which transactions pension liability.
See page 98 for detail are to be considered exceptional in nature of the relative sensitivity of the value of is often a subjective matter.
However, the scheme liabilities to changes in the circumstances that the Directors believe discount and inflation rates.
would give rise to exceptional items for Warranties separate disclosure would include: gains The Group measures warranty provisions or losses on the disposal of businesses at the Directors best estimate of the other than those within the scope of amount required to settle the obligation at IFRS 5, curtailments on defined benefit the balance sheet date, discounted where pension arrangements, restructuring the time value of money is considered of businesses and asset impairments.
These estimates take account of All exceptional items are included on the available information, historical experience appropriate income statement category and the likelihood of different possible to which they relate.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities could be different from those estimated.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2014 73
