A DD I T I ON A L I N F OR M A T I ON Registered office and head office Cautionary statement 10 Brock Street This report is intended to focus on matters Regents Place which are relevant to the interests of London NW1 3FG shareholders of the Company.
The purpose Registered in England and Wales of this report is to assist shareholders in Company number: 5448421 assessing the strategies adopted and performance delivered by the Company Financial advisors and the potential for those strategies to Lazard succeed.
It should not be relied on by any 50 Stratton Street other party for any other purpose.
London W1J 8LL Forward-looking statements are made Stockbrokers ingood faith, based on a number of Citigroup Global Markets Limited assumptions concerning future events Citigroup Centre andinformation available to directors at Canada Square the time of their approval of this report.
London E14 5LB These forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent Oriel Securities Limited uncertainties underlying any such forward- 150 Cheapside looking information.
The user of this report London EC2V 6ET should not rely unduly on these forwardSolicitors looking statements, which are not a Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer guarantee of performance and which are 65 Fleet Street subject to a number of uncertainties and London EC4Y 1HS other facts, many of which are outside the Companys control and could cause actual Independent auditors events to differ materially from those in  LLP these statements.
No guarantee can be Chartered Accountants and given of future results, levels of activity, StatutoryAuditors performance or achievements.
1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2766 www.
co. uk Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus networkextras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Printed in-house by Debenhams Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 10 Brock Street, Regents Place, London NW1 3FG www.
