I INDEPENDENT N D EP EN D EN TAUDITORS A U D I T O R S REPORT R EP OTO R T THE T O T MEMBERS H E M EMOF BER DEBENHAMS S PLC COMPANY OF fide B E N H A M S P L C C OM P A N Y Report on the Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Debenhams plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 August 2014: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited Debenhams plcs financial statements comprise: The Company balance sheet as at 30 August 2014: and The notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or Apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1 137 37 F I N A N CI A L S T A T EM EN T S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I N INDEPENDENT D EP EN D EN TAUDITORS A U D I T O R S REPORT R EP OTO R T THE T O T MEMBERS H E M EMOF BER DEBENHAMS S PLC COMPANY OF fide B E N H A M S P L C C OM P A N Y C ON T I N U E D CONTINUED Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and The overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Debenhams plc for the year ended 30 August 2014.
John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 October 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1 138 38
