GL O S S A RY A N D R EFER EN C E S Concessions Gross margin Own bought brands Brands which are sold through our Gross transaction value less the cost of Brands for which Debenhams owns the storeswhere the stock belongs to goods sold, as a percentage of gross stock.
They include core brands, Designers athirdparty concessionaire.
at Debenhams and international brands.
arefoundchiefly inwomenswear Gross transaction value GTV Own brands egWallis, Oasis, Warehouse and Sales excluding VAT on a gross Debenhams exclusive brands, comprising accessories eg Tripp luggage.
basisbefore adjusting for concessions, core brands and Designers at Debenhams.
Core brands consignments and staff discounts.
All Reported profit before tax and Brands designed and produced references to sales in this report refer to earnings per share exclusivelyby Debenhams.
All references to revenue refer to Profit before tax and earnings per share brands such as The Collection, Mantaray, statutory revenue.
calculated after the impact of a nonMaineNew England and RedHerring.
International brands recurring 4.5 million write-off of Theyare found in all product categories.
Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, unamortised issue costs associated with CRM eCRM Clarinsand Este Lauder for which the refinancing of borrowing facilities Customer relationship management Debenhams owns the stock.
International segment Retail method of inventory Designers at Debenhams Comprises sales to international franchise valuation Exclusive diffusion ranges designed partners, sales from our stores in Denmark An industry specific accounting method forDebenhams by leading international and the Republic of Ireland and online sales used to derive a weighted average designers including Jasper Conran, to addresses outside of the UK.
Product cost and retail JohnRocha and Julien Macdonald.
valuesare aggregated at department Like-for-like sales levelto determine an average margin Direct sourcing Sales from stores which have been open perdepartment.
These margins are then Sourcing from suppliers who own all forat least one year plus online sales.
applied to the retail value of inventory orpartof the supply chain processes.
ineach department to derive the cost Market share Earnings per share EPS The percentage of the market or ofinventory.
The profit for the year attributable to marketsegment that is being serviced Terminal stock shareholders, divided by the weighted byDebenhams.
For instance, if 100 The stock, as at the balance sheet date, average number of shares in issue.
T-shirtswere sold a year in the UK and which is classified as previous season or Debenhams sold ten of them, it would EBITDA older.
It is expressed as a percentage of have10% marketshare.
Earnings before interest, taxation, total stock measured at retail value.
Multi-channel UK segment Multi-channel sales comprise those Footfall Comprises sales from our UK stores fromonline, mobile, apps and instore The number of people who visit our stores.
andonline sales to UK addresses.
ordering as well as those which include more than one channel in a single Free cash flow Underlying profit before tax shopping journey such as click and collect.
Cash generated from operations before andearnings per share We use online sales as a measure of the exceptional items less net cash used Profit before tax and earnings per share growth ofthe multi-channel business as in investing activities.
calculated before the impact of exceptional itisthe largest of thesesales channels.
In 2014 there was anon-recurring 4.5 million write-off of unamortised issue costs associated with the refinancing of borrowing facilities during 2014.
With thanks to Maureen Hinton of Columino andDarren Winder of TheLazarus Partnership.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 148
