182 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Electronic Communications Interim Management Statement 24 October 2014 Shareholders now have the opportunity to receive shareholder 2014 Annual General Meeting 24 October 2014 communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of Final Dividend Ex Div Date 6 November 2014 the Annual General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect Final Dividend Record Date 7 November 2014 to receive email notifications of shareholder communications Final Dividend Payment Date 21 November 2014 by registering at www.
co. uk where you can also set up a bank mandate to receive dividends directly to your bank Annual General Meeting account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows held at 10.00 am on 24 October 2014 at Investec Bank plc, the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice of meeting environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
the Notice, which includes special business to be transacted at Registrar the Annual General Meeting together with an explanation of the Dechras Registrar is Equiniti Limited.
resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is made available on the Company website or mailed to shareholders, if they have Equiniti should be contacted for any matters relating to your elected to receive the Notice in paper format.
shareholding, including: Share History Notification of change in name and address Dechra floated on the London Stock Exchange in September 2000 Enquiries about dividend payments at 1.20 per share, with a market capitalisation of 60 million.
Submission of proxy form for voting at the Annual General In relation to the acquisition of VetXX Holdings A S, on 15 January Meeting 2008, Dechra undertook a placing and open offer on the basis of Equiniti offers a facility whereby shareholders are able to access 11 Open Offer shares for every 50 existing shares held on their shareholdings in Dechra via their website 10 December 2007 at an issue price of 303 pence.
Alternatively Equiniti can be contacted at: On 5 April 2012, a Rights Issue was announced on the basis of 3 new ordinary shares for every existing 10 shares held on Equiniti Limited 23 April 2012 at a subscription price of 3.00 per share.
The Aspect House Rights Issue resulted in 20,040,653 shares being issued with Spencer Road dealings commencing on 16 May 2012.
Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Company Website The Dechra website www.
com is the best source of Registrars Shareholder Helpline for Dechra: 0871 384 2030 or useful and up-to-date information about Dechra and its activities, 44 0 121 415 7047, if calling from the outside of the UK.
including the latest news, financial and product information to Please have your Shareholder Reference Number to hand help improve understanding of our business.
Additionally, the whenever you contact the Registrar: this can be found on your terms of reference of all our Committees, Articles of Association, share certificate.
our Values and a number of our internal policies are published on the website.
Share Dealing Service Equiniti Financial Services Limited offer a Share Dealing Service, to buy or sell shares.
Further information can be obtained from www.
co. uk dealing or by telephoning 0845 603 7037.
Telephone Internet Postal share share share dealing dealing dealing Fee on value of transaction up to 50,000 1.5% 1.5% 1.75% over 50,000 0.2% 0.2% 0.5% Minimum charge 50.00 45.00 50.00 Stamp duty charge purchases only 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% Visit us at our website Equiniti Financial Services Limited and its agents are authorised www.
com and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Please note that the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the original amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 Company Information 183 Warning to Shareholders If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of FCA by contacting their Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 678.
If the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless you have been offered, bought or sold shares you can use the or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
share fraud reporting form at http: www.
uk consumers Previously we were alerted by some of our shareholders to cold scams investment-scams  calls which they had received.
The callers purport to represent reporting-form.
various entities, including Drexel-Bearns, a US based firm.
The If you have already paid money to share fraudsters or suspect callers stated that they were seeking to gain control of investor fraud you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. shareholdings held in the Company and or personal financial information.
We believe these to be boiler room scams.
Protecting your Identity Suggestions for safeguarding your shares: These types of calls are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders and are commonly referred to ensure all your share certificates are kept in a safe place or as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: extremely persuasive.
While high profits are promised, those keep all correspondence relating to your shares in a safe place who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
or destroy the correspondence by shredding: Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited notify the Registrar of a change of address in writing or via advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free their website as detailed on page 182 : company reports.
consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank account to eliminate the risk of a lost dividend cheque: If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company notify the Registrar of bank account detail changes in writing or research reports, you should take these steps before handing or via their website: and over any money: if you decide to sell or buy shares use only brokers registered in your own country or the UK.
check the FCA Register at www.
uk firms systemsreporting register to ensure they are authorised: confirm that the firm is genuine by asking them for their firm reference number and contact details.
Always use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
You should only access the Register from the FCA website at www.
uk: call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6786 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date: make additional checks to confirm that you are dealing with the firm direct for example checking the details on the firms website with directory enquiries or Companies House: search the FCA unauthorised firms list: and remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
