Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 113 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: opeRating aSSetS anD liaBilitieS 12.
OThER INvESTmENTS 13. pOST EmplOymENT bENEfITS accounting policies accounting policies Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
that are either designated as such upon initial recognition or not In addition, the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded classified in any of the otherfinancial assets categories.
They are post employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded included in non-current assets.
Subsequent to initial defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For post employment measurement, available-for-sale investments are stated at fair plans, other than defined contribution plans, the amount charged value.
Gains and losses arising from the changes in fair value are to operating profit is the cost of accruing pension benefits recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment promised to employees over the year, plus any changes arising is disposed of or impaired, when the accumulated gains and on benefits granted to members by the group during the year.
losses are recycled to the income statement.
Interest and Net finance charges comprise the net deficit asset on the plans dividends from available-for-sale investments are recognised in at the beginning of the financial year, adjusted for cash flows in the consolidated income statement.
the year, multiplied by the discount rate for plan liabilities.
The Loans receivable are non-derivative financial assets with fixed differences between the fair value of the plans assets and the or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active present value of the plans liabilities are disclosed as an asset or market.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
Any differences due the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
to changes in assumptions or experience are recognised in other Allowances are made where there is evidence of a risk of comprehensive income.
The amount of any pension fund asset non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience recognised on the balance sheet is limited to any future refunds and general economic conditions.
from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
united Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined Spirits contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
limited loans b other total million million million million Critical accounting estimates and judgements Cost less allowances or Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in fair value relation to various assumptions including future pay rises, inflation At 30 June 2012 87 10 97 and discount rates and employee and pensioner demographics.
Exchange differences 18 10 2 26 Diageo determines the assumptions on a country by country Additions 283 20 303 basis in conjunction with its actuaries, and believes these Repayments 41 41 assumptions to be in line with best practice, but the application Fair value adjustment 85 85 of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the income statement, other comprehensive Allowances charged income and balance sheet.
There may be also interdependency during the year 6 6 between some of the assumptions.
At 30 June 2013 350 50 12 412 Exchange differences 6 6 1 11 a post employment benefit plans Additions 26 26 The group operates a number of pension plans throughout the Repayments and world, devised in accordance with local conditions and practices.
disposals 19 6 25 The majority of the plans are defined benefit plans and are funded by Fair value adjustment 55 55 payments to separately administered trusts or insurance companies.
Transfer to associates a 399 399 The group also operates a number of plans that are generally Allowances reversed unfunded, primarily in the United States, which provide employees during the year 5 5 post employment medical costs.
at 30 June 2014 56 7 63 The principal plans are in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the United States where benefits are based on employees length of service and salary at retirement.
All valuations were performed by a On the acquisition of a 10.04% investment in USL in the year independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method to ended 30 June 2013 USL was accounted for as an available-for-sale determine pension costs.
The most recent valuations of the investment.
On the acquisition of an additional 14.98% investment significant defined benefit plans were carried out as follows: in USL on 4 July 2013, USL became an associate and the fair value principal plans Date of valuation at that date was transferred to investments in associates.
United Kingdom 31 March 2012 b Loans comprise 33 million 2013 29 million: 2012 57 million Ireland 30 December 2012 of loans to associates in South Africa and 23 million 2013 21 United States 1 January 2014 million: 2012 30 million of loans to customers and other third parties, after allowances of 9 million 2013 27 million: 2012 In the United Kingdom, the Diageo Pension Scheme the UK Scheme closed to new members in November 2005.
Employees who have joined Diageo in the United Kingdom since the defined 28 million.
benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of the Diageo Lifestyle Plan a cash balance defined benefit pension plan.
T he Guinness Ireland Group Pension Scheme in Ireland the Irish Scheme closed to new members in May 2013.
Employees who have joined Diageo in Ireland since the defined benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of a personal retirement savings account.
