Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 95 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: ReSultS FoR tHe YeaR This section explains the results and performance of the ResUlts fOR group for the three years ended 30 June 2014.
Disclosures tHe yeaR are provided for segmental information, operating costs, exceptional items, finance income and charges, the groups share of results of associates and joint ventures, taxation and discontinued operations.
For associates, joint ventures and taxation, balance sheet disclosures are also provided in this section.
and operating profit before exceptional items of the geographical 2.
The other segmental information in note 2 b in respect accounting policies of capital expenditures and depreciation, intangible asset Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties and rents amortisation and impairment for the years ended 30 June 2013 and receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and 2012 has been restated for the change in the reporting of the ISC.
other duties which the group pays as principal but excludes Continuing operations also include the Corporate function.
amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added Corporate revenues and costs are in respect of central costs, tax.
Sales are recognised depending upon individual customer including finance, corporate relations, human resources and legal, as terms at the time of despatch, delivery or when the risk of loss well as certain information systems, facilities and employee costs that transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are not allocable to the geographical segments or to ISC.
They also are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty include rents receivable and payable in respect of properties not and certain promotional activities and similar items.
used by the group in the manufacture, sale or distribution of Net sales are sales less excise duties.
Diageo incurs excise premium drinks and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
In some countries excise duties are Diageo uses shared services operations, including captive and based on sales and are separately identified on the face of the outsourced centres, to deliver transaction processing activities for invoice to the external customer.
In others it is effectively a markets and operational entities.
These centres are located in production tax which is incurred when the spirit is removed from Hungary, Romania, Kenya, Colombia, the Philippines and China.
In these countries excise duties are part of The captive business service centre in Budapest also performs certain the cost of goods sold and are not separately identified on the central finance activities, including elements of financial planning sales invoice.
The results of shared service operations Advertising costs, point of sale materials and sponsorship are recharged to the regions.
payments are charged to marketing in operating profit when the The segmental information for net sales and operating profit company has a right of access to the goods or services acquired.
before exceptional items is reported at budgeted exchange rates in line with management reporting.
For management reporting purposes the group measures the current year at, and restates the Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium prior year net sales and operating profit to, the current years drinks.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in associates and budgeted exchange rates.
These exchange rates are set prior to the joint ventures as set out in note 6. financial year as part of the financial planning process and provide The segmental information presented is consistent with a consistent exchange rate to measure the performance of the management reporting provided to the executive committee the business throughout the year.
The adjustments required to chief operating decision maker.
retranslate the segmental information to actual exchange rates and The executive committee considers the business principally from to reconcile it to the groups reported results are shown in the tables a geographical perspective based on the location of third party sales below.
The comparative segmental information, prior to retranslation, and the business analysis is presented by geographical segment.
has not been restated at the current years budgeted exchange rates In addition a further segment reviewed by the executive but is presented at the budgeted rates for the respective years.
committee is International Supply Centre ISC.
From 1 July 2013, the In addition, for management reporting purposes Diageo presents majority of the groups supply operations formerly the Global Supply separately the result of acquisitions and disposals completed in the segment have been integrated into demand markets while the current and prior year from the results of the geographical segments.
supply operations in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy, which The impact of acquisitions and disposals on net sales and operating manufacture products for other group companies, are operated by profit is disclosed under the appropriate geographical segments in the ISC.
The results of the ISC segment are allocated to the the tables below at budgeted exchange rates.
geographical segments for the purpose of explaining the groups performance.
The management reporting, at budget exchange rate, for the years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 have not been restated as the integration of the non-ISC supply operations into the demand markets has not altered the externally reported net sales
