Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 133 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: otHeR FinanCial inFoRMation 22. pRINCIpal gROUp COmpaNIES The companies listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the group.
The operating companies listed below may carry on the business described in the countries listed in conjunction with their subsidiaries and other group companies.
A full list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, all of which are consolidated on an appropriate basis, will be included in the companys next annual return, the company having made use of the exemption in Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006. percentage Country of Country of of equity incorporation operation owned Business description Subsidiaries Diageo Ireland Ireland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Great Britain Limited England Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Scotland Limited Scotland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Brands BV Netherlands Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo North America, Inc United States Worldwide 100% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Capital plc Scotland United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Finance plc England United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Capital BV Netherlands Netherlands 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Finance BV Netherlands Netherlands 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Investment Corporation United States United States 100% Financing company for the US group Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. Turkey Turkey 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks associates Mot Hennessy, SNC France France 34% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks United Spirits Limited India India 28.8% Production, marketing and distribution of alcoholic drinks All percentages, unless otherwise stated, are in respect of holdings of ordinary share capital and are equivalent to the percentages of voting rights held by the group.
Directly owned by Diageo plc.
23. pOST balaNCE ShEET EvENTS On 2 July 2014, with the completion of the tender offer the group acquired an additional 26% investment in USL for INR 114.5 billion 1,118 million taking its investment to 54.78% excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust financed by debt.
From 2 July 2014 the group will account for USL as a subsidiary with a 43.9% non-controlling interests.
As a result of USL becoming a subsidiary of the group a gain of 103 million arose, being the difference between the book value of the associate balance prior to the transaction and the market value.
This will be reported as a non-operating exceptional gain in the consolidated accounts in the year ending 30 June 2015.
