Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 67 directors remuneration report nOtes tO the POlICy table DIageO lOng terM InCentIve Plan DltIP Performance conditions Performance measures and targets The vesting of awards is linked to a range of measures which Further details of AIP performance measures and DLTIP performance may include, but are not limited to: measures and targets that will apply for awards made in September a growth measure e. g. net sales, eps : 2014, and how they are aligned with company strategy and the a measure of efficiency e. g. operating margin, operating cash creation of shareholder value, are set out in the annual report on conversion, ROIC : and remuneration, on pages 72 and 75. a measure of Diageos relative performance in relation to its Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, and peers e. g. relative total shareholder return.
take into account the companys strategic priorities and business Measures that apply to performance shares and market price environment.
The Committee sets targets based on a range of options may differ, as is the case for current awards.
Weightings reference points including the corporate strategy and broker may vary year-on-year, subject to a minimum weighting of 25% forecasts for both Diageo and its peers.
Details of the measures, including targets for Differences in remuneration policy for other employees the awards to be made in September 2014 are set out on page 75.
The remuneration approach for Executive Directors is consistent with The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the the reward package for members of the Executive Committee and performance conditions in exceptional circumstances if it the senior management population.
considers it appropriate to do so, e. g. in cases of accounting Generally speaking, a much higher proportion of total changes, M&A activities and disposals.
Any such amendments remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business would be fully disclosed and explained in the following years performance, compared to the rest of the employee population, annual report on remuneration.
so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business performance and to align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
The structure of the reward package for the wider all-eMPlOyee share Plans employee population is based on the principle that it should be Purpose and link to strategy sufficient to attract and retain the best talent and be competitive To encourage broader employee share ownership through within our broader industry, remunerating employees for their locally approved plans.
contribution linked to our holistic performance whilst mindful not to over-pay.
It is driven by local market practice as well as level of Operation seniority and accountability, reflecting the global nature of The company operates tax-efficient all-employee share savings Diageos business.
Executive Directors eligibility may depend on their country of residence, tax status and employment company.
Opportunity Limits for all employee share plans are set by the tax authorities.
The company may choose to set its own lower limits.
Performance conditions UK Freeshares: based on Diageo plc financial measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit and cash.
sharehOlDIng requIreMent Purpose and link to strategy Ensures alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation The minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base salary for any other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors have five years from their appointment to the Board in which to build up their shareholding.
Full participation in the DLTIP is conditional upon meeting this requirement beyond the five-year timeframe.
