130 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: otHeR FinanCial inFoRMation On 18 May 2011, the Tax Tribunal made a determination that the 19.
CONTINgENT lIabIlITIES aND lEgal pROCEEDINgS statute of limitations had run for part of the assessment period, accounting policies ordered a partial penalty refund and instructed the Korean customs Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or authorities to reinvestigate the remaining assessments.
Accordingly, other disputes against the group where it is considered to be a refund of Korean won 43 billion or 25 million including 2 million probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made of value added tax was made to Diageo Korea in the year ended of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may 30 June 2012. be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the However, post the completion of the reinvestigation, the Korean estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no customs authorities have concluded that they will continue to pursue provision created.
the application of the same methodology and on 18 October 2011 a further final imposition notice was issued for Korean won 217 billion Critical accounting estimates and judgements or 125 million including 14 million of value added tax in respect A judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a claim of the period from 29 February 2008 to 31 October 2010. will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible In response Diageo Korea filed a claim with the Seoul range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in this Administrative Court Court along with a petition for preliminary evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the injunction to stay the final imposition notice.
The Court granted liability originally estimated.
Diageo Koreas request for a preliminary injunction and has stayed the final imposition until the decision of the Court on the underlying a guarantees matter.
On 31 October 2012, the Court instructed the Korean customs As of 30 June 2014 the group has no material guarantees or authorities to reinvestigate the second imposition notice per the indemnities to third parties with the exception of a conditional instructions of the Tax Tribunal and stayed the Court hearings until back-stop guarantee issued by Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. the completion of the re-audit.
The re-audit was completed in DHN to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered, pursuant February 2013 and the Court hearings continue.
to a guarantee commitment agreement the guarantee agreement The underlying matter remains in progress with the Court and in respect of the liabilities of Watson Limited Watson, a company Diageo Korea is unable to quantify meaningfully the possible loss affiliated with Dr Vijay Mallya, under a $135 million 81 million facility or range of loss to which these claims may give rise.
Diageo Korea from Standard Chartered.
The guarantee agreement was entered continues to defend its position vigorously.
into as part of the arrangements put in place at closing of the USL d thalidomide litigation transaction and announced by Diageo on 4 July 2013.
The term of In Australia, class action claims alleging product liability and this facility and the DHN guarantee were extended on 22 July 2014 negligence for injuries arising from the consumption of the drug for an additional period of six months, with the monetary limits of thalidomide were filed in the Supreme Court of Victoria against both the facility and the guarantee remaining unchanged.
The terms Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited, its parent Diageo Scotland of the guarantee continue to require that the right of Standard Limited formerly Distillers Company Limited, as well as against Chartered to call on the guarantee it is subject to Standard Chartered Grnenthal GmbH, the developer of the drug not a member of the having first taken certain agreed steps to recover from Watson, group.
On 18 July 2012 Diageo settled the claim of the lead claimant including defined steps towards enforcement of its security package.
Lynette Rowe and agreed a process to consider the remaining In addition, DHN has, in respect of its potential liability under this claimants.
As a result of that process, agreement was reached guarantee, the benefit of counter-indemnities from Watson and between Diageo and the claimants, without admission of liability by Dr Vijay Mallya as well as the security package put in place for Diageo, to settle the class action claims for the sum of AU$89 million the facility.
49 million and AU$6.5 million 4 million in costs which was b Colombian litigation charged to discontinued operations in the income statement.
An action was filed on 8 October 2004 in the United States District The settlement was subsequently approved by the Supreme Court Court for the Eastern District of New York by the Republic of Colombia of Victoria on 7 February 2014 and the class action claims were and a number of its local government entities against Diageo and dismissed.
Grnenthal GmbH is not a party to the settlement.
other spirits companies, alleging several causes of action, including In the United Kingdom, legal proceedings were commenced violations of the Federal RICO Act.
This claim was dismissed in on behalf of eight claimants in June 2014.
At this time, little is known November 2012.
The dismissal was without prejudice and as such, about the specifics of this case.
More recently, the possibility of plaintiffs are not barred from bringing a similar action in future.
a second lawsuit was suggested in correspondence with lawyers Diageo cannot meaningfully quantify the possible loss or range of for a second, smaller group of claimants, though proceedings have loss in the event of any future litigation.
Diageo remains committed not yet been commenced in relation to this group.
to continued dialogue with the Colombian governmental entities Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited distributed the drug to address the underlying issues.
in Australia and the United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Diageo is unable to quantify meaningfully the c Korean customs dispute possible loss or range of loss to which any lawsuit may give rise.
Litigation is ongoing in Korea in connection with the application The group has worked voluntarily for many years with various of the methodology used in transfer pricing on spirits imports since thalidomide organisations and has provided significant 2004.
In December 2009, Diageo Korea received a final customs audit financial support.
assessment notice from the Korean customs authorities, covering the period from 1 February 2004 to 30 June 2007, for Korean won 194 billion or 112 million including 14 million of value added tax, which was paid in full and appealed to the Korean Tax Tribunal.
