Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 93 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: aCCounting inFoRMation anD poliCieS This section describes the basis of preparation of the accOUntinG consolidated financial statements and the groups accounting infORmatiOn policies that are applicable to the financial statements as a and POlicies whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
1. aCCOUNTINg INfORmaTION aND pOlICIES Foreign currencies Basis of preparation Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements for use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the parent company.
historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other accounting policy.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the requires management to make estimates and assumptions that date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings going concern and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to The group has considerable financial resources available.
At 30 June the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on 2014 the group has cash and cash equivalents of 622 million and such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses undrawn bank facilities of 2,047 million excluding a 1,170 million accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income committed facility that was cancelled on completion of acquisition statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange of a further investment in USL on 2 July 2014, with borrowings and differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in bank overdrafts due within one year of 1,576 million.
The group foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date owns a diverse portfolio of beverage alcohol assets.
globally diverse customer and supplier base the directors believe The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation that the group is well positioned to manage its business and of financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2014, financial risks successfully.
expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has 2014 2013 2012 adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the US dollar foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Income statement 1.63 1.57 1.58 Assets and liabilities 1.71 1.52 1.57 Consolidation Euro The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Income statement 1.20 1.21 1.18 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is Assets and liabilities 1.25 1.17 1.24 an entity controlled by Diageo plc.
Control is the power to direct Weighted average rates the relevant activities of the subsidiary that significantly affect the Year end rates subsidiarys return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control The group uses foreign exchange transaction hedges to mitigate over an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations the effect of exchange rate movements.
For further information for liabilities of that entity, the entity is consolidated on the basis see note 15. of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
94 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 financial statements Of tHe GROUP: aCCounting inFoRMation anD poliCieS The standard does not materially change the measurement Critical accounting estimates and judgements The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of fair values, and has had no impact on the groups financial position or performance.
of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgements, are set out in detail in the relevant notes: Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits changes a number of Exceptional items page 100 disclosure requirements for post employment arrangements and Taxation page 104 restricts the options currently available on how to account for Business combinations page 106 defined benefit pension plans.
The most significant change that Brands, goodwill and other intangibles page 108 impacts the group is that the amendment requires the expected Post employment benefits page 113 returns on pension plan assets, previously calculated based on Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings page 130 managements estimate of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on the pension plan assets calculated at the liability In the year ended 30 June 2014 significant judgement has been discount rate.
made in respect of the exchange rate used to translate the groups Following the adoption of the amendment to IAS 19, the group Venezuelan operations.
has restated its comparatives in the financial statements.
In March 2014, the Central Bank of Venezuela opened the Second Ancillary Foreign Currency Administration System Sicad II that allows Following the adoption of the above standards and amendment private and public companies to trade foreign currency at a higher to standards, comparative prior year figures have been restated.
exchange rate than the official exchange rate.
As a result, the group The impact on the groups consolidated statement of comprehensive has applied a consolidation rate of $1 VEF49.98 1 VEF85.47 to income, net assets and net cash flow are provided in note 18. its Venezuelan operations for the year ended 30 June 2014.
For the Restated segmental information for the years ended 30 June 2013 years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 a rate of $1 VEF9 and 30 June 2012 is provided on pages 96 to 98.
1 VEF13.68: 1 VEF14.13, respectively was used to translate the groups Venezuelan operations.
The following amendments to the accounting standards, issued by The impact of the change in the consolidation rate on the the IASB and endorsed by the EU, have been adopted by the group groups Venezuelan operations for the year ended 30 June 2014 from 1 July 2013 with no significant impact on its consolidated results was as follows: or financial position: As reported at Amendment to IAS 1 Clarification of the requirements for $1 VEF 49.98 At $1 VEF 9 1 VEF 85.47 1 VEF 15.39 Decrease comparative information million million million Amendment to IAS 16 Classification of servicing equipment Net sales 79 437 358 IAS 27 Revised Separate financial statements Operating profit 56 285 229 IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures Cash and cash equivalents 72 401 329 Amendment to IAS 32 Tax effect of distribution to holders of Net assets 83 461 378 equity instruments Amendment to IAS 34 Interim financial reporting new accounting policies Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for The following accounting standards and amendment, issued by the non-financial assets IASB and endorsed by the EU, are effective for the first time in the Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets current financial year and have been adopted by the group: and financial liabilities IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements does not change the The following standards issued by the IASB have not yet been core principle that a consolidated entity presents a parent and its adopted by the group: subsidiaries as if they were a single entity and does not have an impact on the mechanics of the consolidation.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective in the year ending 30 June Application of IFRS 10 has not affected the scope of the 2019, not yet endorsed by the EU is ultimately intended to replace consolidation.
IAS 39 and covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial instruments together with a new hedge accounting IFRS 11 Joint arrangements requires joint arrangements to be model and new impairment methodology.
accounted for as a joint operation or as a joint venture depending The group is currently considering the impact of IFRS 9 on its on the rights and obligations of each party to the arrangement.
consolidated results and financial position.
This means that for certain entities the groups share of their sales and other financial items is no longer consolidated on a line by IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective in the line basis but the groups net share of their net income is included year ending 30 June 2018, not yet endorsed by the EU is based in the line Share of after tax results of associates and joint ventures.
on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of goods Following the adoption of IFRS 11, the group has restated its or services is transferred to the customer and provides a single, comparatives in the financial statements.
principles-based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts.
It replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities requires enhanced contracts under current IFRS.
disclosures of the nature, risks and financial effects associated with Based on a preliminary assessment of the adoption of IFRS 15 the the groups interests in subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements group currently believes this standard will have no significant impact and unconsolidated structured entities.
on its consolidated results or financial position.
The notes to the financial statements have been amended to comply with the new standard.
There are a number of amendments to IFRS, effective for the year IFRS 13 Fair value measurement explains how to measure fair value ending 30 June 2015, which are not expected to significantly impact and aims to enhance fair value disclosures.
the groups performance or financial position.
