Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 135 financial statements Of tHe cOmPany Share-based payments employee benefits accOUntinG POlicies The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo Of tHe cOmPany models and is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained Basis of preparation earnings in equity.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held to fair value of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
various employee share plans around the group are deducted from By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account and disclosing of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as a employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken movement in equity.
Where the company grants options over its advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recharges the cost under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption to the relevant group company.
contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings and the exemption pensions and other post employment benefits in FRS 29 and has not separately disclosed information about The Diageo group operates a number of defined benefit pension financial instruments.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the Future changes to accounting policies company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
The Financial Reporting Council recently issued FRS 100 Application Contributions payable in respect of defined contribution plans in of Financial Reporting Requirements, FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure respect of current and former employees are charged to operating Framework and FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable profit as incurred.
The company operates a number of other post in the UK and Republic of Ireland which will be first effective for the employment benefit plans which are unfunded.
The liability in company for the year ending 30 June 2016.
FRS 100 sets out the respect of these plans is recognised on the balance sheet overall financial reporting framework whereas FRS 101 applies to representing the present value of the obligations under the plans, the company financial statements allowing them to apply the same net of related deferred tax.
accounting policies as the IFRS group accounts but with less disclosure.
FRS 102 will replace the current UK GAAP standards with taxation an IFRS based new standard and include a set of disclosure Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an exemptions for qualifying entities formerly preparing UK GAAP estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment financial standards.
The company is currently evaluating the impact of the timing differences which arise as a consequence of different of these requirements in relation to FRS 100, FRS 101 and FRS 102. accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied for the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or investments settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the Investments in subsidiaries are stated at their historical cost i. e. the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance fair value of the consideration given by the company less, where sheet date.
The company does not discount these balances.
Tax appropriate, impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions value.
The carrying amounts of the companys investments are are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is an reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in profit or of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
loss account and reflected in an allowance against the carrying value.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to tax charge.
decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss account.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet Dividends paid and received at fair value calculated using discounted cash flow techniques The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the based on market data applied consistently for similar types of year in which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are reported the year in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general in the income statement.
Dividends received are included in the financial statements in the year in which they are receivable.
