Strategic report governance Financial statements additional information for shareholders Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 139 additiOnal infORmatiOn fOR sHaReHOldeRs requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed additiOnal infORmatiOn before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts.
fOR sHaReHOldeRs Voting rights RElaTED paRTy TRaNSaCTIONS Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of the company Transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 21 to the is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show consolidated financial statements.
of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and ShaRE CapITal present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the Major shareholders number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, At 18 July 2014, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder to the company.
has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have percentage of appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, issued ordinary unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more number of share capital Date of ordinary excluding notification shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more Shareholder shares treasury shares of interest shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against BlackRock Investment the resolution.
3 December Management UK Limited On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 2009 has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a Capital Research and shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all Management Company his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests A poll may be demanded by any of the following: in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have the chairman of the general meeting: different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the control of the company.
total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or aRTIClES Of aSSOCIaTION any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy The company is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307. resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the The following description summarises certain provisions of aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at up on all the shares conferring that right.
the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for case as at 18 July 2014.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: Investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association by ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, contacting the Company Secretary at the.
re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final Any amendment to the articles of association of the company dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies auditor, the remuneration report and remuneration policy, the Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in holders of such class.
a general meeting or appointed by Diageos Board.
At each annual An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at reconsidered for election re-election, assuming they wish to stand which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions for election re-election: any director who has been appointed by require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the Diageos Board since the last annual general meeting: any director votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a who has been in office during the two previous general meetings quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by in office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period proxy and entitled to vote.
of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit 140 Diageo annual RepoRt 2014 additiOnal infORmatiOn fOR sHaReHOldeRs DOCUmENTS ON DISplay A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed by with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission may be after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Information on the operation of pre-emption rights and new issues of shares the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights waRNINg TO ShaREhOlDERS ShaRE fRaUD to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, Please beware of the share fraud of boiler room scams, where is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or without express authorisation, which may be contained in a property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in section of the companys website www.
com but in short, a general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not investment decision.
allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to ExTERNal lImITED aSSURaNCE Of SElECTED allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms SUSTaINabIlITy & RESpONSIbIlITy pERfORmaNCE DaTa in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
engagement, reporting to Diageo plc only, over selected Sustainability & Responsibility S&R performance data marked Repurchase of shares with the symbol within the Strategic Report section of this report.
Subject to authorisation by special resolution, Diageo may purchase KPMG LLP used the International Standard on Assurance its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares Engagements ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, Gas Statements to assure the selected Greenhouse Gas performance if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion data and ISAE 3000: Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued Reviews of Historical Financial Information to assure the other share capital.
selected performance data, which includes data for water use, wastewater discharge BOD under direct control and waste to Restrictions on transfers of shares landfill, all marked with the symbol.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo KPMG LLP have issued an unqualified opinion over the selected share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified S&R performance data and their full assurance opinion is available or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt in the Responsibility section of our website at www.
from stamp duty, and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if engagement.
In order to reach their opinion, KPMG LLP performed to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
a range of procedures which included interviews with management, Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused examination of reporting systems and documentation, as well in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as as selected data testing at various sites as well as at Head Office.
defined in Diageos articles of association and where, in the case of A summary of the work they performed is included in their a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the assurance opinion.
uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Non-financial performance information, greenhouse gas The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in than financial information.
It is important to read the selected S&R Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with performance data contained within this report in the context of a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after KPMG LLPs full limited assurance opinion and our reporting failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in methodologies.
Our reporting methodologies are included in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, the S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual Report, available unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms at www.
length sale as defined in Diageos articles of association.
DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARDLOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements.
These statements can be disruption to production facilities or business service centres, and systems change identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
In particular, programmes, existing or future, and the ability to derive expected benefits from forward-looking statements include all statements that express forecasts, expectations, such programmes: plans, outlook and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results changes in financial and equity markets, including significant interest rate and foreign of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of changes in currency exchange rate fluctuations and changes in the cost of capital, which may interest or exchange rates, the availability or cost of financing to Diageo, anticipated cost reduce or eliminate Diageos access to or increase the cost of financing or which savings or synergies, expected investments, the completion of Diageos strategic transactions may affect Diageos financial results and movements to the value of Diageos and restructuring programmes, anticipated tax rates, expected cash payments, outcomes pension funds: of litigation, anticipated deficit reductions in relation to pension schemes and general renewal of supply, distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements or related rights economic conditions.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and and licences on favourable terms when they expire: uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and developments technological developments that may affect the distribution of products or impede to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking Diageos ability to protect its intellectual property rights.
statements, including factors that are outside Diageos control.
All oral and written forward-looking statements made on or after the date of this These factors include, but are not limited to: document and attributable to Diageo are expressly qualified in their entirety by the above factors and by the principal risks set out in the Strategic Report How we protect changes in political or economic conditions in countries and markets in which Diageo our business: Risk management and principal risks.
Any forward-looking statements operates, including changes in levels of consumer spending, failure of customer, made by or on behalf of Diageo speak only as of the date they are made.
Diageo does supplier and financial counterparties or imposition of import, investment or not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in Diageos currency restrictions: expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on changes in consumer preferences and tastes, demographic trends or perceptions about which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional health related issues, or contamination, counterfeiting or other circumstances disclosures that Diageo may make in any documents which it publishes and or files with which could harm the integrity or sales of Diageos brands: the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
All readers, wherever located, should developments in any litigation or other similar proceedings including with tax, take note of these disclosures.
customs and other regulatory authorities directed at the drinks and spirits industry This document includes names of Diageos products, which constitute trademarks or generally or at Diageo in particular, or the impact of a product recall or product trade names which Diageo owns, or which others own and licence to Diageo for use.
liability claim on Diageos profitability or reputation: All rights reserved.
Diageo plc 2014. the effects of climate change and regulations and other measures to address The information in this document does not constitute an offer to sell or an invitation climate change including any resulting impact on the cost and supply of water: to buy shares in Diageo plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other changes in the cost or supply of raw materials, labour and or energy: investment activities.
legal and regulatory developments, including changes in regulations regarding This document includes information about Diageos target debt rating.
A security rating production, product liability, distribution, importation, labelling, packaging, is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision consumption or advertising: changes in tax law, rates or requirements including or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organisation.
Each rating should be with respect to the impact of excise tax increases or accounting standards: and evaluated independently of any other rating.
changes in environmental laws, health regulations and the laws governing Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
labour and pensions: the costs associated with monitoring and maintaining compliance with anti-corruption and other laws and regulations, and the costs associated with Designed by Salterbaxter MSLGroup.
investigating alleged breaches of internal policies, laws or regulations, whether initiated internally or by external regulators, and any penalties or fines imposed Cover printed on Magno Silk and text printed on Munken Polar.
as a result of any breaches: Both grades are from the FSC Mix group of materials and are manufactured at mills which are certified to the ISO14001 ability to maintain Diageos brand image and corporate reputation, and exposure to and EMAS environmental standards.
adverse publicity, whether or not justified, and any resulting impacts on Diageos reputation and the likelihood that consumers choose products offered by Printed by CPI Colour on behalf of RR Donnelley.
CPI Colour are Diageos competitors: ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and are FSC and increased competitive product and pricing pressures and unanticipated actions PEFC Chain of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
by competitors that could impact Diageos market share, increase expenses and hinder growth potential: the effects of Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks, the effects of business combinations, partnerships, acquisitions or disposals, existing or future, and the ability to realise expected synergies and or costs savings: Diageos ability to complete existing or future business combinations, restructuring programmes, acquisitions and disposals: contamination, counterfeiting or other events that could adversely affect the perception of Diageos brands: increased costs or shortages of talent: Diageo Annual Report 2014 2014 Diageo plc.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
Lakeside Drive All brands mentioned Park Royal in this Annual Report London are trademarks and are registered and or NW10 7HQ otherwise protected United Kingdom in accordance with applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
