Dignity plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation European law requires that the Groups consolidated financial statements for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
This will also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the acquisition method of accounting.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Exceptional items and underlying profit Exceptional items are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
In 2013 the exceptional items relate to an exceptional credit due to the change to the headline rate of corporation tax.
In 2014 the exceptional costs relate to the loss on extinguishment of the Old Notes, the repayment of the swap and the tax associated with those items.
In arriving at underlying profit exceptional items are added back together with external transaction costs and the profit or loss on sale of fixed assets.
See the Financial Review for further details.
External transaction costs External transaction costs are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
They relate wholly to external costs incurred by the Group.
Pre-arranged funeral plan trusts The five pre-arranged funeral plan trusts are not consolidated during the period as they are not controlled by the Group.
Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 RAO requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group.
Furthermore, the Group does not direct their financial or operating policies, nor does it have substantially all of the risks and rewards of their ownership.
Revenue Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals, income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods supplied.
Revenues include amounts receivable from the prearranged funeral plan trusts for funerals performed by the Group for pre-arranged funeral plan members.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
The Group pays certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers fees and doctors fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process.
However, these amounts are not included within net revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 71 1 Accounting policies continued The accounting policies for recognising turnover for prearranged funeral plans are stated below.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar longterm characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT.
Pre-arranged funeral plans Trust plans The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, with monies received from selling funeral plans being held and controlled by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts the Trusts.
The responsibility for the ultimate performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan, some of whom are not owned by the Group.
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions: A marketing and administration allowance in respect of each plan sold.
The marketing element is only refundable in the event that the plan is subsequently cancelled.
A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences, where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts.
Marketing and administration allowances are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on cancellations: and Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative services supplied to the Trusts.
These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the prearranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in respect of current members Recoveries.
All Recoveries are recognised as other income in the period in which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to third party funeral directors when the funeral is ultimately performed.
All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with the terms of the relevant Trusts deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the Group when a prearranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a prearranged funeral plan that i if the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies paid in respect thereof less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company : ii the funeral directors services as selected by the customer will be provided regardless of price rises in the future: and iii for the majority of plans sold, specific disbursements such as crematoria fees, ministers fees and doctors fees will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid to the insurers when the policy is initially charged to the Group.
As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a receivable and expensed when the funeral is performed.
In the event of the death of the policyholder, if the Group performs the funeral, it receives an agreed amount from the insurers which is recognised as revenue within the funeral division.
On occasions a third party will perform the funeral and the Group will pass on all monies received to that party.
Sharebased payments The Group issues equity settled sharebased payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Dignity plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 1 Accounting policies continued An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
When the options are exercised the Company issues new shares.
Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares primarily share options.
Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value related disclosures are summarised in the following notes.
Disclosure item Related note Trade payables and trade receivables 14,17 Goodwill and intangibles 9 Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions 26 Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy 21 Financial instruments including those carried at amortised cost 21 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability measured using the assumptions that market participants would use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The business and subsidiaries acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are therefore only considered to be separate cashgenerating units during this time.
Intangible assets trade names Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the estimated fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment.
When acquired as part of a business combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by virtue of the trade name being wellestablished.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to writeoff the asset on a straight line basis over the term of its useful life.
Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a wellestablished market with inelastic demand, where reputation, recommendation and previous experience acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Groups track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics.
In addition, when allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered: The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and anticipated profitability: The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade names life such as competition and shifting demographics and the Groups ability to combat these: The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired: and The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion, maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73 1 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets noncompete contracts Noncompete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at their fair value, which is calculated as the present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Groups cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straight line basis.
Intangible assets software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems including websites is recognised if, and only if, the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to eight years using the straight line method.
Intangible assets use of third party brand name The Group has a marketing agreement with Age UK Enterprises Limited, giving rights to market prearranged funeral plans under the Age UK brand.
The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straight line basis, recognising that each years additional marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
Property, plant and equipment Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location and condition.
Depreciation is charged so as to writeoff the cost of assets to their residual value excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction, over their expected useful lives using the straight line method.
The bases and annual depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% 10% Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease Motor vehicles 11% 20% Computers 20% Other plant and equipment 5% 33% Fixtures and fittings 15% Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an indefinite life.
Where the historical cost of land and buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third based on historical data of the original cost of acquiring the land and buildings.
This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Groups trading premises and cremator relinings are depreciated over the remaining life of the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator relining, whichever is sooner.
Asset lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Assets in the course of construction are shown as work in progress at a value equal to costs incurred to date.
Once completed, they are reclassified and depreciated using the Groups depreciation policy above.
Borrowing costs If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the interest incurred on borrowed capital up to the date of completion is capitalised as part of cost of construction as permitted by IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Repairs and renewals All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements such that the interest element is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Dignity plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 1 Accounting policies continued Profit or loss on sale of fixed assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within profit or loss on sale of fixed assets in the income statement.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life e. g. goodwill which are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill this is considered at a business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored.
For other intangibles principally trade names this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash inflows are largely independent.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit are estimated, based on latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Any impairment in the value of an asset below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Inventories Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset to generate a net asset or liability if the conditions of IAS 12 are met.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Pensions The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions other than deferred tax are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to the undiscounted value.
The unwinding of discounts is included within finance costs.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 1 Accounting policies continued Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
At the balance sheet date, the trusts assets and liabilities recognised in the Groups balance sheet within share capital and reserves were nil 2013: nil.
Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when paid.
Financial instruments Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs and subsequently at amortised costs.
The transaction costs, interest payable and premium on debt finance are charged credited to the income statement, as finance costs income, on a constantyield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are writtenoff to the income statement as incurred.
Early settlement of Old Notes As discussed in the Groups critical accounting estimates and judgements, the early settlement of the Old Notes was considered to be an extinguishment.
Where refinanced borrowings are accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability, costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on extinguishment and written off through exceptional finance costs.
Interest rate swaps The Group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall interest rate risk management strategy.
It does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes.
Interest rate risk associated with net debt is managed by using a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings and financial liabilities.
The cash flows from, and losses arising on terminations of, these contracts are recognised as cash flows from operating activities.
See note 16 d for further information.
Trade receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience.
When a trade receivable is not collectable it is writtenoff against the allowance account.
Subsequent recovery of amounts previously writtenoff are credited against administrative expenses in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits and amounts included in accounts restricted for specific uses.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgements in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are detailed below: Early settlement of Old Notes Consideration was given as to whether the exchange of the Old Notes for New Notes constituted a modification of their terms or an early settlement extinguishment.
The Directors considered there to be a substantial change to the terms of the Secured Notes, since: The maturity of the Class A and B Notes was being increased by 11 and 18 years respectively: The interest rate on the Class A and B notes was being reduced by circa 2.8 per cent and circa 3.5 per cent respectively: The nominal value of the Class A and B Notes was being increased by circa 28 million and circa 105 million respectively: Dignity plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 1 Accounting policies continued The investment rating of the Class A notes was reducing to A by Fitch from A : and Investors not willing to accept the exchange of notes were able to have their notes redeemed for cash at par multiplied by the exchange offer price, plus accrued interest.
The repayment of the Old Notes were therefore viewed as being extinguished early rather than having their terms modified.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each division, assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the receivable and the type of services provided.
The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements.
These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are the discount rate and the inflation rate.
See note 28 for further details.
Goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on valueinuse calculations however, acquisitions in the period have been determined using fair value less cost to sell.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 9 for further details.
Other intangible assets The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 Intangible assets trade names.
These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on valueinuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Acquisition of companies In accounting for business combinations, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired have to be measured at their fair values.
In particular, some judgement is required in estimating the split between intangible assets and goodwill and determining the fair value of properties.
Details concerning acquisitions of companies are outlined in note 26.
Non consolidation of preneed trusts The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, with monies received from selling funeral plans being held by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts.
These trusts are not consolidated by the Group, on the basis they do not control them.
The principle of nonconsolidation was established many years ago, and therefore the Directors consider annually whether there have been any changes to terms and conditions, or accounting standards that would change this determination.
For new trusts acquired in the period, the Directors consider the terms and conditions to determine whether nonconsolidation is appropriate.
Adoption of new standards As a result of the Groups 2013 balance sheet date being 27 December 2013, any new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations applicable for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2014 are not mandatory until the accounting period ending 25 December 2015.
The Group has elected not to early adopt any such standards.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2014 IAS 1, Financial statement presentation, regarding other comprehensive income.
This amendment requires entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
IAS 19, Employee benefits was amended in June 2011.
The main impact on the Group was as follows: to immediately recognise all past service costs and to replace interest costs and interest income on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset.
See note 28 for the impact on the financial statements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77 1 Accounting policies continued There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2014 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: IAS 19 amendment, Defined benefit plans: Employee contributions, effective 1 July 2014.
This amendment clarifies that, if the amount of the employees contribution is independent of the number of years service, an entity is permitted to recognise such contributions as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is rendered, rather than allocating the employee contributions to the period of service.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed.
IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation and IFRS 7, Financial instruments disclosure on asset and liability offsetting, effective 1 January 2014.
These amendments are to the application guidance in IAS 32 and clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
This is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets: on the recoverable amount disclosures for nonfinancial assets, effective 1 January 2014.
This amendment removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which has been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
This standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2018.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, effective 1 January 2014, builds on existing principals by identifying the concept on control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
The Group has specifically considered IFRS 10 in light of the Groups non consolidation of its prearranged funeral plan trusts.
The Group does not believe that, given the following conditions required for consolidation in the new standard, a change in accounting policy will be required when IFRS 10 is adopted.
IFRS 10 consideration Analysis Power over the investee.
Power arises when the investor Dignity has no voting rights over the trusts or any rights to has existing rights that gives ability to direct the direct the activities of the trust.
Whilst Dignity has the power relevant activities.
to appoint the trustees, the RAO requires a majority of them to be independent.
Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement Dignity has no rights to variable returns, Dignity received a fee with the investee.
for the marketing of the plans and for the performance of the funeral.
From time to time Dignity may receive a surplus from the trust however, Dignity has no right to this and it has to be approved by the trustees.
The ability to use its power over the investee to affect Dignity has no control over the trusts investment strategy.
the amount of the investors returns.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, effective 1 January 2014, focuses on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
The Group has no joint arrangements so there is no impact on the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, effective 1 January 2014.
This standard includes disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of this standard but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, effective 1 January 2017.
This standard establishes a new five step model that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The principals in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measure and recognise revenue.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Dignity plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 2 Financial risk management The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cashgenerative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Market risk Interest rate risk and other price risk The Groups main borrowings consist of New Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a predetermined repayment profile.
The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and yield spreads based on the markets current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes.
Consequently, the fair value of these instruments will fluctuate.
Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding strategy and repay the Secured Notes early.
The Group is also fully drawn on a 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The principal on the facility is repayable in one amount in February 2018 and interest is fixed at approximately 3.3 per cent.
All interest is payable in cash on a quarterly basis.
Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases in LIBOR on this facility.
The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions rated at least F1 by Fitch.
These balances earn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate.
If interest rates reduced by one per cent at the beginning of 2014 then the Group would receive 0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each 10.0 million held.
None of the Groups other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group.
However, this risk is minimised as much as possible through wellestablished credit control procedures.
Quantitative disclosures regarding the ageing of these receivables are included in note 21 c. Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances.
In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times.
This ratio was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid.
This covenant test has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period.
At 26 December 2014 the actual ratio was 10.69 times 2013: 2.46 times.
The New Notes were issued on 17 October 2014.
Consequently, Senior Interest only accrues from this date for the Relevant Period.
Debt Service, assuming a full year Senior Interest would have been approximately 33.7 million.
On this basis, the EBITDA DSCR would have been 2.95 times and the Free Cashflow DSCR would have been 2.47 times.
Capital risk management The Groups objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and repay holders of Secured Notes.
It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Groups capital comprises equity and net debt as set out in note 24.
The Groups principal source of longterm debt financing is the New Notes, rated A and BBB respectively by Standards & Poors and Fitch.
The Group monitors its capital structure based on gross debt, as summarised in note 24, to underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants for the New Notes under the terms of the Groups secured borrowings see Liquidity risk above.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 3 Revenue and segmental analysis Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
The chief operating decision maker of the Group has been identified as the four Executive Directors.
The Group has three reporting segments, funeral services, crematoria and prearranged funeral plans.
The Group also reports central overheads, which comprise unallocated central expenses.
Funeral services relate to the provision of funerals and ancillary items, such as memorials and floral tributes.
Crematoria services relate to cremation services and the sale of memorials and burial plots at the Dignity operated crematoria and cemeteries.
Prearranged funeral plans represent the sale of funerals in advance to customers wishing to make their own funeral arrangements and the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
Substantially all Group revenue is derived from, and substantially all of the Groups net assets are located in, the United Kingdom and Channel Islands and relates to services provided.
Overseas transactions are not material.
Underlying profit is stated before profit or loss on sale of fixed assets, external transaction costs and exceptional items.
Underlying operating profit is included as it is felt that adjusting operating profit loss for these items provides a useful indication of the Groups performance.
The revenue and operating profit loss, by segment, was as follows: Loss on sale of fixed assets, Underlying external operating profit transaction loss before Depreciation Underlying costs and depreciation and and operating profit exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation loss items profit loss 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 m m m m m m Funeral services 184.4 75.9 9.6 66.3 1.5 64.8 Crematoria 55.2 32.3 3.2 29.1 0.2 28.9 Prearranged funeral plans 29.3 7.6 0.2 7.4 7.4 Central overheads 17.4 0.5 17.9 0.3 18.2 Group 268.9 98.4 13.5 84.9 2.0 82.9 Finance costs 30.6 124.2 154.8 Finance income 4.2 4.2 Loss profit before tax 58.5 126.2 67.7 Taxation continuing activities 13.1 13.1 Taxation exceptional 25.8 25.8 Taxation 13.1 25.8 12.7 Underlying earnings for the period 45.4 Total other items 100.4 Loss after taxation 55.0 Earnings per share for loss profit attributable to equity shareholders Basic and diluted pence 85.8p 104.0 p Dignity plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Prearranged Central services Crematoria funeral plans overheads Group As at 26 December 2014 m m m m m Segment assets 350.8 141.3 19.5 3.1 514.7 Unallocated assets: Cash and cash equivalents 86.5 Corporation tax 1.0 Total assets 602.2 Segment liabilities 39.7 7.8 8.1 9.6 65.2 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 610.2 Accrued interest 5.7 Deferred tax 13.6 Total liabilities 694.7 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 40.5 3.4 1.3 45.2 Depreciation note 10 9.6 3.2 0.5 13.3 Amortisation note 9 0.2 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 1.6 1.6 Other noncash expenses note 23 2.0 2.0 Loss on sale of fixed assets 0.3 0.3 The revenue and operating profit, by segment, was as follows: Loss on sale of fixed assets, Underlying external operating profit transaction before Depreciation Underlying costs and depreciation and and operating profit exceptional Operating Revenue amortisation amortisation loss items profit loss 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 m m m m m m Funeral services existing 166.3 66.0 8.3 57.7 0.1 57.6 Funeral services acquisitions 9.9 3.7 0.6 3.1 1.7 1.4 Funeral services 176.2 69.7 8.9 60.8 1.8 59.0 Crematoria existing 52.1 29.4 3.0 26.4 26.4 Crematoria acquisitions 1.7 1.0 1.0 1.0 Crematoria 53.8 30.4 3.0 27.4 27.4 Prearranged funeral plans 26.7 6.8 0.1 6.7 6.7 Central overheads 16.0 0.5 16.5 1.5 18.0 Group 256.7 90.9 12.5 78.4 3.3 75.1 Finance costs 28.9 28.9 Finance income 3.4 3.4 Profit before tax 52.9 3.3 49.6 Taxation continuing activities 12.9 0.2 12.7 Taxation exceptional 3.5 3.5 Taxation 12.9 3.7 9.2 Underlying earnings for the period 40.0 Total other items 0.4 Profit after taxation 40.4 Earnings per share for profit attributable to equity shareholders Basic and diluted pence 72.1p 72.8p Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81 3 Revenue and segmental analysis continued The segment assets and liabilities were as follows: Funeral Pre-arranged Central services Crematoria funeral plans overheads Group As at 27 December 2013 m m m m m Segment assets 329.5 130.6 18.2 2.8 481.1 Unallocated assets: Cash and cash equivalents excluding collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 79.3 Cash and cash equivalents collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 63.0 Cash and cash equivalents 142.3 Total assets 623.4 Segment liabilities 27.7 6.5 6.3 6.6 47.1 Unallocated liabilities: Borrowings excluding finance leases 423.2 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 63.0 Accrued interest 14.3 Corporation tax 6.7 Deferred tax 26.9 Total liabilities 581.2 Other segment items: Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax 72.8 4.4 1.5 78.7 Depreciation note 10 8.9 3.0 0.4 12.3 Amortisation note 9 0.1 0.1 0.2 Impairment of trade receivables note 21 c 2.1 0.1 2.2 Other noncash expenses note 23 1.5 1.5 Loss on sale of fixed assets 0.1 0.1 Cash generated from operations, at a divisional level, is considered to be broadly similar to the amount of underlying operating profit by each division.
4 Net finance costs 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Finance costs Old Notes 21.8 24.7 New Notes 5.1 Amortisation of issue costs 1.5 1.8 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.6 0.6 Term loan 0.7 Other loans 1.3 0.6 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 Unwinding of discounts 0.3 0.4 Underlying finance costs 30.6 28.9 Extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Finance costs 154.8 28.9 Finance income Bank deposits 1.0 0.5 Amortisation of premium on Old Notes 3.2 2.9 Finance income 4.2 3.4 Net finance costs 150.6 25.5 Dignity plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 5 Loss profit before tax 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Analysis by nature m m The following items have been included in arriving at loss profit before tax: Staff costs note 27 82.8 78.6 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense included in cost of sales 14.7 14.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 10 13.3 12.3 Amortisation of intangible assets included in administrative expenses note 9 0.2 0.2 Operating lease rentals property 8.7 8.3 External transaction costs 1.7 3.2 Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Trade receivables impairment included in administrative expenses note 21 c 1.6 2.2 Services provided by the Groups auditors and its associates: Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.1 Other advisory services 0.6 0.2 0.9 External transaction costs The current period relates to 1.4 million of other external acquisition expense and 0.3 million external costs relating to the Return of Cash.
There is no impact on taxation.
The prior period consists of 1.1 million in respect of the Yew Acquisition, 1.6 million in respect of the issue of the Secured Notes and Return of Cash and 0.5 million of other external acquisition expenses.
The impact on taxation on these is a credit of 0.2 million.
Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional During the period, the Group exchanged Old Notes with a book value of 404.6 million, stated before deduction of net unamortised issue costs of 14.8 million, for New Notes with a value of 501.3 million and cash of 5.9 million.
The Group incurred incremental costs of 5.8 million in respect of this exchange.
As explained in note 1, this exchange was assessed as being an extinguishment of the Old Notes and the issue of New Notes, such that a loss on extinguishment of 123.2 million arose.
The impact on taxation on this is a credit of 25.6 million.
Elimination of swap exceptional The swap terminated in the period had a fair value of 5.1 million and a carrying value of 4.1 million, resulting in an exceptional finance cost of 1.0 million.
The impact on taxation on this is a credit of 0.2 million.
Following the change of auditors in 2014, the Group paid 40,000 of fees to the Groups auditor in connection with the other nonaudit services.
See the Audit Committee report for further details.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83 6 Taxation 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Analysis of charge in the period m m Current tax current period 0.6 13.3 Adjustments for prior period 0.7 0.2 Total corporation tax 0.1 13.1 Deferred tax current period 1.2 0.6 Non trade deficit recognised in the period 11.6 Adjustments for prior period 0.2 0.2 Exceptional adjustment for rate change in 2013 23% to 20% 3.5 Total deferred tax 12.6 3.9 Taxation 12.7 9.2 -- 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Tax on items credited to other comprehensive income or equity m m Deferred tax credit on remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 2.2 0.2 Deferred tax credit relating to maturity of option schemes 0.3 0.4 Total credited to other comprehensive income 2.5 0.6 Corporation tax credit on remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 0.3 Corporation tax credit relating to maturity of option schemes 0.6 0.7 Adjustment for rate change in 2013 23% to 20% 0.1 Total credited to equity 0.6 0.9 The taxation charge in the period is higher 2013: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5 per cent 2013: 23.25 per cent.
The differences are explained below: 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Loss profit before taxation 67.7 49.6 Loss profit before taxation multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 14.6 11.5 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior period 0.5 Exceptional adjustment in respect of closing deferred tax rate change in 2013 23% to 20% 3.5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.4 1.2 Total taxation 12.7 9.2 Under IFRS the tax rate is lower 2013: lower than the standard UK tax rate of 21.5 per cent 2013: 23.25 per cent due to a combination of the impact of disallowable trading expenses and expenditure on the Groups premises that does not attract any deductions for tax purposes 2013: principally due to the exceptional adjustments.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23 per cent to 21 per cent with effect from 1 April 2014.
Accordingly the Groups profits for this accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 22.5 per cent 2013: 24.5 per cent.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 20 per cent from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted in 2013 and as such the deferred tax balance at 27 December 2013 was calculated at 20 per cent.
As a result, the Group recognised exceptional tax income, in the prior period, of 3.5 million through its income statement which reflected the one off reduction in the period of the Groups deferred tax position.
Dignity plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 7 Dividends 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Final dividend paid: 11.83p per Ordinary Share 2013: 10.75p 6.3 6.2 Interim dividend paid: 6.49p per Ordinary Share 2013: nil 3.5 Dividend on Ordinary Shares 9.8 6.2 2014 Return of Cash On 7 November 2014, the Group returned a total of 64.4 million to ordinary shareholders equating to 1.20 for each Ordinary Share held following the issue of the New Notes.
Ordinary shareholders were able to elect to receive this Return of Cash as either: a A return of capital the Capital Option.
b A special dividend the Special Dividend Option.
Ordinary shareholders elected to receive 20.1 million as a return of capital and 44.3 million as a special dividend.
2013 Return of Cash On 9 August 2013, the Group returned a total of 61.9 million to ordinary shareholders equating to 1.08 for each Ordinary Share held following the issue of Old Notes.
Ordinary shareholders were able to elect to receive this Return of Cash as either: c A return of capital the Capital Option.
d A special dividend the Special Dividend Option.
Ordinary shareholders elected to receive 22.3 million as a return of capital and 39.6 million as a special dividend.
The interim dividend represents the interim dividend that was approved and paid in the period out of earnings generated in the same period.
No interim dividend was paid in 2013 as it was included within the Return of Cash.
The final dividend represents the final dividend that was approved and paid in the period relating to the earnings generated in the previous period.
Consequently, total dividends recognised in the period were 74.2 million, 138.32 pence per share 2013: 68.1 million, 118.75 pence per share.
A final dividend of 13.01 pence per share, in respect of 2014, has been proposed by the Board.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the date of signing this report the total dividend payment is approximately 6.4 million.
This will be paid on 26 June 2015 provided that approval is gained from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 11 June 2015 and will be paid to shareholders on the register at close of business on 29 May 2015.
8 Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share has been based on the profit or loss attributable to equity shareholders for the relevant period.
For diluted earnings per Ordinary Share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares being those share options granted to employees under the Groups SAYE Scheme and the contingently issuable shares under the Groups LTIP Schemes.
At the balance sheet date, the performance criteria for the vesting of the awards under the LTIP Schemes are assessed, as required by IAS 33, and to the extent that the performance criteria have been met those contingently issuable shares are included within the diluted EPS calculations.
In prior periods, the potential issue of new shares pursuant to the Groups share option plans had no impact on the calculation of earnings per share.
For the period ended 26 December 2014, any potential ordinary shares to be included when considering diluted earnings per share were antidilutive.
As a result there was no difference between basic earnings per share and basic diluted earnings per share.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85 8 Earnings per share continued The Board believes that profit on ordinary activities before profit or loss on sale of fixed assets, external transaction costs, exceptional items and after taxation is a useful indication of the Groups performance, as it excludes significant nonrecurring items.
This reporting measure is defined as Underlying profit after taxation.
Accordingly, the Board believes that earnings per share calculated by reference to this underlying profit after taxation is also a useful indicator of financial performance.
In 2013 and 2014, shareholders approved a share capital consolidation together with a Special Dividend of 1.08 and 1.20 per Ordinary Share respectively.
The overall effect of these transactions was that of a share repurchase at fair value.
The reduction in the number of Ordinary Shares is the result of a corresponding reduction in resources and therefore no adjustment has been made to the earnings per share calculation.
Reconciliations of the earnings and the weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Weighted average number of Per share Earnings shares amount m millions pence 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 Underlying profit after taxation and EPS 45.4 52.9 85.8 Add: Exceptional items, loss on sale of fixed assets and external transaction costs net of taxation of 25.8 million 100.4 Loss attributable to shareholders Basic and dilutive EPS 55.0 52.9 104.0 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 Underlying profit after taxation and EPS 40.0 55.5 72.1 Add: Exceptional items, loss on sale of fixed assets and external transaction costs net of taxation of 0.2 million 0.4 Profit attributable to shareholders Basic and dilutive EPS 40.4 55.5 72.8 Dignity plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets Use of third Non Trade party brand compete names name Software agreements Subtotal Goodwill Total m m m m m m m Cost At 28 December 2012 51.0 3.2 4.0 0.2 58.4 151.1 209.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 23.5 23.5 22.6 46.1 At 27 December 2013 74.5 3.2 4.0 0.2 81.9 173.7 255.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses note 26 a 17.7 17.7 8.6 26.3 At 26 December 2014 92.2 3.2 4.0 0.2 99.6 182.3 281.9 Accumulated amortisation At 28 December 2012 0.9 3.9 0.2 5.0 5.0 Amortisation charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 At 27 December 2013 1.0 4.0 0.2 5.2 5.2 Amortisation charge 0.2 0.2 0.2 At 26 December 2014 1.2 4.0 0.2 5.4 5.4 Net book amount at 26 December 2014 92.2 2.0 94.2 182.3 276.5 Net book amount at 27 December 2013 74.5 2.2 76.7 173.7 250.4 Net book amount at 28 December 2012 51.0 2.3 0.1 53.4 151.1 204.5 Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets As described in note 1, goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing: i Goodwill excluding goodwill acquired in the period is tested at a business segment level.
ii Other intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cashgenerating units CGUs which are considered to be on a regional basis.
The segmental allocation is shown below: Intangible assets Goodwill Total At 26 December 2014 m m m Funeral services 92.2 130.7 222.9 Crematoria 46.9 46.9 Prearranged funeral plans 2.0 4.7 6.7 94.2 182.3 276.5 At 27 December 2013 Funeral services 74.5 122.1 196.6 Crematoria 46.9 46.9 Prearranged funeral plans 2.2 4.7 6.9 76.7 173.7 250.4 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87 9 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The recoverable amount of a CGU is based on a valueinuse calculation for goodwill and intangible assets existing at the start of the period.
The valueinuse calculations use cash flow projections based on the latest management expectations.
Key assumptions used to produce the annual budget are the estimated UK death rates based on historical death rates supplied by ONS, anticipated market share based on actual experience and anticipated price increases based on actual experience.
Cash flows beyond the initial 12 month period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.25 per cent 2013: 2.25 per cent, being a prudent estimate of longterm growth rates for impairment review purposes only.
The cash flows are discounted at a pretax rate of 10.2 per cent 2013: 10.2 per cent.
This rate is used for each CGU because they all have similar risk profiles.
Based on these calculations, the discount rate would have to increase to at least 18 per cent 2013: 19 per cent, or the growth rate would have to reduce to at least minus 6.1 per cent 2013: minus 8 per cent to result in any impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and working capital.
For acquisitions made in the period, the recoverable amount of cashgenerating units has been determined on the basis of fair value less costs to sell.
The consideration paid in each case supports the valuation of goodwill which is subject to an annual impairment review.
On the basis of the above, the review indicated that no impairment arose in any segment 2013: nil.
Details of any securities over assets are disclosed in note 30.
Dignity plc 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 10 Property, plant and equipment continued Additional headings have been included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for property, plant and equipment in order to provide additional information on the different types of expenditure that the Group has incurred during the year.
Assets held under finance leases, which relate solely to leasehold land and buildings, have the following net book amount: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Cost 1.0 1.0 Accumulated depreciation 0.3 0.3 Net book amount 0.7 0.7 The Group had capital expenditure authorised by the Board and contracted for at the balance sheet date of 2.0million 2013: 2.7million.
11 Noncurrent financial and other assets 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Note m m Prepayments a 7.6 10.0 Deferred commissions b 2.8 2.7 10.4 12.7 a Prepayments This balance represents the amounts paid to acquire the long leasehold interest in land at certain of the Groups properties.
Management consider that leases greater than 50 years at inception are long leases.
The balance is expensed on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The leases expire at various times over the next 30 to 125 years.
b Deferred commissions The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
12 Investments A list of the trading entities included within the financial information are included in note C2 to the Companys financial statements.
13 Inventories 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Materials 0.2 0.2 Finished goods 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 There were no inventory writedowns in either period.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89 14 Trade and other receivables 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 20.6 19.5 Less: provision for impairment note 21 c 4.9 4.5 Net trade receivables 15.7 15.0 Receivables due from prearranged funeral plans trusts note 29 5.5 3.1 Receivables due from prearranged funeral plans trusts due after more than one year note 29 3.7 3.6 Prepayments and accrued income 2.7 4.8 Other receivables 1.4 1.3 Corporation taxation 1.0 30.0 27.8 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of normal provision for doubtful recoverables.
For further details of the trade receivables past due and impaired refer to note 21 c. Due to the shortterm nature of these balances, the carrying value is considered to be their fair value.
15 Cash and cash equivalents 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Note m m Operating cash as reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash and cash equivalents 76.9 59.0 Amounts set aside for debt service payments a 9.6 20.3 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility b 63.0 Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the balance sheet 86.5 142.3 a This amount was transferred to restricted bank accounts which could only be used for the payment of the interest and principal on the Secured Notes, the repayment of liabilities due on the Groups interest rate swaps see note 16 d and commitment fees due on its undrawn borrowing facilities see note 21 d and for no other purpose.
Consequently, this amount does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows.
This amount was used to pay these respective parties on 31 December 2014.
Of this amount, 5.6 million 2013: 14.6 million is shown within the Statement of Cash Flows as Payments to restricted bank accounts for finance costs and 4.0 million 2013: 5.7 million is shown within Financing activities as Payments to restricted bank accounts for repayment of borrowings.
b This amount represents the cash collateralisation of the Liquidity Facility, which does not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7.
See notes 16 f and 21 d for further information.
Dignity plc 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 16 Financial liabilities 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Note m m Current Old A Notes a 15.8 New A Notes b 8.0 Premium on Old Notes a 4.0 Other current financial liabilities d 1.0 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility f 63.0 g 8.0 83.8 Noncurrent Old Notes a 347.7 New Notes b 586.6 Premium on Old Notes a 35.5 Finance lease obligations c 0.7 0.7 Other noncurrent financial liabilities d 3.6 Crematoria Acquisition Facility e 15.6 15.6 602.9 403.1 a Old Notes All Old Notes were repaid during the period.
See the 2013 Annual Report for details of the Old Notes.
b New Notes On 17 October 2014, Dignity Finance PLC issued the New Notes, as described in the Financial Review.
Interest is payable on the New Notes on 30 June and 31 December of each year.
Transaction costs of 0.3 million and 0.4 million were incurred directly relating to the issue of the New A Notes and the New B Notes respectively.
At 26 December 2014, 0.3 million 2013: nil and 0.4 million 2013: nil of the transaction costs in respect of the New A Notes and the New B Notes respectively remain unamortised.
For further details of security over the New Notes see note 30 a.
d Other financial liabilities As part of the refinancing described in the Financial Review, this financial liability was repaid in the period.
See the 2013 Annual Report for further details of the financial liability.
e Crematoria Acquisition Facility The Group is fully drawn on a 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
The transaction costs incurred on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility were 0.2 million.
The principal outstanding on the Crematoria Acquisition Facility and related issue costs have been presented on a net basis in the table on page 90.
At 26 December 2014, 15.8 million 2013: 15.8 million of the principal was outstanding.
At 26 December 2014, 0.2 million 2013: 0.2 million of the transaction costs remained unamortised.
For further details of security over the Crematoria Acquisition Facility see note 30 b. f Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility In November 2013 the Group enforced its right to require the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS to cash collateralise the Groups Liquidity Facility, following the downgrade of RBS by Standard & Poors.
This collateralisation could have been reversed at RBSs option once their shortterm rating is at least A1.
At 27 December 2013 this facility was effectively undrawn on a net basis and the cash could only be used in the same circumstances before the cash collateralisation was enforced.
As part of the refinancing described in the Financial Review the terms of the Liquidity Facility were amended.
As a result the Group benefits from a 55 million Liquidity Facility which is not required to be cash collateralised by RBS at this time.
g Current financial liabilities The current financial liabilities represent the amounts falling due within one year of the Groups balance sheet date.
Dignity plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 17 Trade and other payables 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Current m m Trade payables 5.3 5.9 Tax and social security 1.5 1.4 Other current liabilities 2.1 1.9 Accruals 38.4 39.6 Deferred income 3.9 3.2 51.2 52.0 Noncurrent Deferred income 1.1 1.1 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 0.1 Other noncurrent liabilities 1.4 1.7 2.6 2.8 18 Obligations under finance leases and operating leases For minimum lease payments obligations under finance leases refer to note 21 d ii.
26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m The minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Not later than one year 9.8 8.4 Later than one year but not more than five years 27.5 25.3 More than five years 131.3 125.5 168.6 159.2 The noncancellable operating leases principally relate to leasehold land and buildings.
Of the total operating lease payments charged to trading expenses, nil million 2013: nil million are in respect of contingent rentals.
The contingent rentals are based on the revenues generated at the specific locations.
Sublease payments received in the year amount to 0.5 million 2013: 0.4 million.
Total future sublease payments receivable relating to operating leases amount to 0.7 million 2013: 0.6 million.
In addition, the Group has operating lease commitments with rentals determined in relation to revenues.
No operating lease commitment disclosures are required for these arrangements, as future lease payments represent contingent rental payments.
19 Provisions for liabilities and charges Onerous Cancellation Dilapidations contracts provision m m m Total a b c m At beginning of period 3.6 0.1 1.2 4.9 Charged to income statement 0.9 0.1 0.1 1.1 Arising on acquisitions 0.3 0.3 Released to income statement 0.2 0.1 0.3 Utilised in period 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of discount 0.1 0.1 At end of period 4.5 0.1 1.3 5.9 Provisions have been analysed between current and noncurrent as follows: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Current 1.4 1.1 Noncurrent 4.5 3.8 5.9 4.9 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93 19 Provisions for liabilities and charges continued a Dilapidations The provision for dilapidations covers the costs of repair to leased premises occupied by the Group in respect of which a dilapidations notification has been received, and properties where a dilapidation obligation exists but for which no notification has been received.
It is anticipated that the element of provision relating to dilapidation notices served, 1.1 million 2013: 0.6 million, will be incurred in the following financial year, and the element relating to dilapidation obligations where no notice has been served will be utilised over the terms of the relevant property leases, the majority of which is expected to be by 31 December 2023. b Onerous contracts The Group has provided for the discounted future costs of certain contracts to which the Group is legally bound.
These contracts relate to vacant leasehold properties and other contracts from which no economic benefit is derived.
The provision will be utilised over the term of the contracts and it is anticipated that it will be fully utilised by 2034.
Included within the provision is an amount of nil million 2013: nil million relating to the expected costs of ongoing rent reviews, the outcomes of which have been based on recent experience of similar reviews on other properties.
c Cancellation provision As described in note 1, the Group receives monies from certain prearranged funeral plan Trusts in respect of the marketing of prearranged funeral plans, which are refundable to the Trust in the event of cancellation.
The provision covers the expected cost of such cancellations anticipated to occur in future years relating to plans sold before the balance sheet date and is anticipated to be utilised over the next five years.
20 Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 20 per cent 2013: 20 per cent.
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m At beginning of period 26.9 24.2 Credited to income statement note 6 12.6 0.4 Adjustment for rate change in 2013 23% to 20% 3.4 Taken to equity note 6 2.5 0.6 Arising on acquisitions note 26 a 1.8 7.1 At end of period 13.6 26.9 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the period are shown below: Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation Other Total m m m At beginning of period 15.7 13.0 28.7 Credited to income statement note 6 0.5 0.6 1.1 Taken to equity note 6 Arising on acquisitions 0.3 1.5 1.8 At end of period 15.5 13.9 29.4 Deferred tax assets Non trade deficits Pensions Other Total m m m m At beginning of period 0.2 1.6 1.8 Credited charged to income statement note 6 11.6 0.3 0.2 11.5 Taken to equity 2.2 0.3 2.5 At end of period 11.6 2.1 2.1 15.8 Dignity plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 20 Deferred tax continued All of the deferred tax assets were available for offset against deferred tax liabilities and hence the net deferred tax provision at 26 December 2014 was 13.6 million 2013: 26.9 million.
Other deferred tax liabilities includes trade names and capital gains rolled forward, other deferred tax assets includes option schemes 1.6 million 2013: 1.0 million and long service awards 0.2 million 2013: 0.2 million.
Elements of these deferred tax balances may be payable recoverable within one year.
However, the Directors consider that it is not possible to quantify the amount because the level of uncertainty in the timing of events and have therefore classified the whole balance as due after more than one year.
The deferred income tax credited to other comprehensive income or charged to equity during the period was as follows: 52 week 52 week period ended period ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax credit on remeasurement losses on retirement benefit obligations 2.2 0.2 Deferred tax credit relating to maturity of option schemes 0.3 0.4 Total credited to other comprehensive income 2.5 0.6 Adjustment for rate change in 2013 23% to 20% 0.1 Total charged to equity 0.1 21 Financial instruments Fair values of nonderivative financial assets and financial liabilities Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at relevant interest rates.
Trade receivables are held net of impairment.
Fair value estimation IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
All assets and liabilities are held at amortised cost other than interest rate swaps in the prior period which are held at fair value.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
a Fair value of current and noncurrent financial assets and liabilities 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Longterm borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and including swaps note 16 649.6 494.9 Finance lease obligations note 16 0.7 0.7 650.3 495.6 Fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Shortterm borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and collateralised Liquidity Facility and including swaps note 16 8.3 23.6 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 63.0 Trade and other payables excluding statutory liabilities note 17 49.7 50.6 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments note 14 26.3 23.0 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 63.0 Cash and cash equivalents excluding collateralised Liquidity Facility note 15 86.5 79.3 Other noncurrent financial liabilities note 17 2.6 2.8 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95 21 Financial instruments continued With the exception of longterm and shortterm borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and including swaps the fair value and the book value are the same.
Longterm borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and including swaps has a book value of 602.2 million 2013: 402.4 million and shortterm borrowings excluding finance lease obligations and including swaps has a book value of 8.0 million 2013: 20.8 million.
b Maturity of financial liabilities The tables below analyse the Groups financial liabilities, which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest costs yet to be incurred.
26 December 2014 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities New Notes gross 8.1 8.3 8.7 18.3 551.9 595.3 Interest payable on New Notes 17.7 24.8 24.5 48.2 463.7 578.9 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 15.8 15.8 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.1 1.6 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.7 3.0 Debt repayments 26.3 33.7 33.8 82.5 1,018.3 1,194.6 Other financial liabilities 45.9 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.7 48.0 72.2 34.1 34.1 83.2 1,019.0 1,242.6 27 December 2013 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Cash liabilities Old Notes gross 17.7 13.0 14.0 31.3 303.8 379.8 Interest payable on Old Notes 41.1 26.4 25.6 48.5 167.3 308.9 Swaps 1.0 0.7 0.7 1.2 2.8 6.4 Crematoria Acquisition Facility 15.8 15.8 Interest payable on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 2.1 Collateralisation of Liquidity Facility 63.0 63.0 Finance leases 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.7 3.0 Debt repayments 123.3 40.7 40.9 97.5 476.6 779.0 Other financial liabilities 37.9 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.9 39.8 161.2 41.0 41.2 97.9 477.5 818.8 Dignity plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 21 Financial instruments continued The amounts disclosed in the tables below represent the anticipated amortisation profile for the issue costs relating to the Groups financial liabilities.
26 December 2014 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Noncash liabilities Issue costs on New Notes 0.7 0.7 Issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.9 27 December 2013 In more than In more than In more than one year but two years but three years but In less than not more than not more than not more than In more than one year two years three years five years five years Total m m m m m m Noncash liabilities Issue costs on Old Notes 1.8 1.7 1.7 3.0 8.1 16.3 Premium on Old Notes 3.9 3.8 3.7 6.8 21.3 39.5 Issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.1 2.0 2.0 3.7 13.2 23.0 c Trade receivables As at 26 December 2014, 8.6 million of the individual gross trade receivables 2013: 8.7 million were past due and partially impaired.
The amount of the provision, as at 26 December 2014, was 4.9 million 2013: 4.5 million.
The individually impaired receivables principally relate to monies owing for funerals performed by the funeral services division.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m One to six months 4.6 4.9 Over six months 4.0 3.8 8.6 8.7 The amount of gross trade receivables past due that were not impaired was not significant.
Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m At beginning of period 4.5 3.4 Charged to income statement 1.6 2.2 Utilised in period 1.2 1.1 At end of period 4.9 4.5 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97 21 Financial instruments continued d Borrowing facilities i The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 26 December 2014, all of which were at floating interest rates, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Expiring within one year Expiring between one and two years Expiring in more than two years 60.0 5.0 60.0 5.0 During the period, 55 million was undrawn 2013: 63.0 million drawn of the Liquidity Facility relating to the New Notes 2013: Old Notes.
This facility may only be used to repay interest and principal on the New Notes in the event of insufficient cash to service these instruments.
The facility is subject to annual renewal.
However, if the bank providing the facility does not renew it, then the provider is required to place 55 million 2013: 63.0 million in a bank account, which the Group may access as if it represented a borrowing facility on the same terms.
The facility is available on these terms until the New Notes have been repaid in full.
This facility ceased being cash in the period.
See note 16 f for further information.
The remaining 5.0 million facility expires in October 2019.
Both these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.
ii The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Not later than one year 0.1 0.1 Later than one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 More than five years 2.7 2.7 3.0 3.0 Future finance costs on finance leases 2.3 2.3 Present value of finance lease liabilities 0.7 0.7 22 Ordinary share capital 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Allotted and fully paid Equity shares 49,170,180 2013: 53,343,871 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence 2013: 11 4 13 pence each 6.1 6.0 Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
During the period, the Group received nil consideration in relation to the 281,430 shares issued under the 2011 LTIP scheme, nil million 2013: 1 million consideration in relation to the 14,896 2013: 141,981 shares issued under the 2010 SAYE scheme.
Changes in issued share capital 2014 On 31 October 2014, the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received 11 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence each in exchange for every 12 Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each held at close of business on 31 October 2014.
As a result of the Return of Cash undertaken in the year, bonus shares of 16,795,058 B Shares with a nominal value of 1.20 per share and 36,845,858 C Shares were issued.
The B Shares were issued and redeemed for cash at par in November 2014.
The C Shares were issued in November 2014 and converted to Deferred Shares on the same day.
The deferred shares were subsequently repurchased for nominal consideration.
Changes in issued share capital 2013 On 12 August 2013, the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company was consolidated such that shareholders received 13 Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each in exchange for every 14 Ordinary Shares of 0.105 each held at close of business on 9 August 2013.
Dignity plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 22 Ordinary share capital continued As a result of the Return of Cash undertaken in the year, bonus shares of 20,613,992 B Shares with a nominal value of 1.08 per share and 36,680,352 C Shares were issued.
The B Shares were issued on 12 August 2013 and redeemed for cash at par on 20 August 2013.
The C Shares were issued on 12 August 2013 and converted to Deferred Shares on the same day.
Potential issues of Ordinary Shares Certain employees hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under an approved Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme started in 2013.
In addition, Executive Directors and senior management hold options to subscribe for shares in the Company under LongTerm Incentive Plans LTIPs awarded in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
The total number of outstanding shares subject to options excluding lapses, the periods in which they were granted and the periods in which they may be exercised are given below: Exercise price 2014 2013 2012 Year of grant pence Exercise period Number Number Number 1 December 2016 2013 SAYE 1,469.00 to 31 May 2017 130,364 149,318 n a 29 March 2015 2012 LTIP to 27 March 2022 251,836 251,836 251,836 20 March 2016 2013 LTIP to 18 March 2023 217,270 217,270 n a 25 March 2017 2014 LTIP to 24 March 2024 186,780 n a n a 23 Sharebased payments In respect of sharebased payment arrangements, total charges to the income statement were 2.0 million 2013: 1.5 million.
The Directors consider that these amounts are not material and hence further detailed disclosures have been omitted.
24 Net debt 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Net amounts owing on Old Notes 403.0 Net amounts owing on New Notes 594.6 Add: unamortised issue costs issued 2014 note 16 b 0.7 16.3 Gross amounts owing on Secured Notes per financial statements 595.3 419.3 Net amounts owing on Crematoria Acquisition Facility per financial statements 15.6 15.6 Add: unamortised issue costs on Crematoria Acquisition Facility note 16 e 0.2 0.2 Gross amounts owing 611.1 435.1 Accrued interest on Secured Notes 5.7 14.3 a Cash and cash equivalents note 15 86.5 79.3 Net debt 530.3 370.1 a In 2013, cash held as collateral for the Liquidity Facility was excluded as it did not meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents in IAS 7.
See notes 16 f and 21 d for further details.
In addition to the above, the consolidated balance sheet also includes finance lease obligations and other financial liabilities which totalled 0.7 million 2013: 5.3 million.
These amounts do not represent sources of funding for the Group and are therefore excluded from the calculation of net debt.
The Groups primary financial covenant in respect of the New Notes requires EBITDA to total debt service to be at least 1.5 times.
At 26 December 2014, the actual ratio was 10.69 times 2013: 2.46 times.
These ratios are calculated for EBITDA and total debt service on a 12 month rolling basis and reported quarterly.
In addition, both terms are specifically defined in the legal agreement relating to the Secured Notes.
As such, they cannot be accurately calculated from the contents of this report.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99 25 Reconciliation of cash generated from operations 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Net loss profit for the period 55.0 40.4 Adjustments for: Taxation 12.7 9.2 Net finance costs 26.4 25.5 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 0.3 0.1 Depreciation charges 13.3 12.3 Amortisation of intangibles 0.2 0.2 Movement in inventories 0.2 Movement in trade receivables 0.3 2.0 Movement in trade payables 0.6 1.4 External transaction costs 1.7 3.2 Loss on extinguishment of Old Notes exceptional 123.2 Elimination of swap exceptional 1.0 Changes in other working capital excluding acquisitions 4.1 1.2 Employee share option charges note 23 2.0 1.5 Cash generated from operations before external transaction costs and exceptional pension contributions 104.4 94.2 Other noncash transactions During the period, as described in note 5, the Group exchanged Old Notes with a book value of 404.6 million for New Notes with a value of 501.3 million and cash of 5.9 million.
Noncash charges also comprise amortisation of deferred debt issue costs, as discussed in note 16 b.
26 Acquisitions a Acquisition of subsidiary and other businesses Provisional fair value m Property, plant and equipment 3.6 Intangible assets: trade names 17.7 Cash acquired 4.3 Receivables 0.7 Provisions note 19 0.3 Other working capital 0.3 Deferred taxation note 20 1.8 Net assets acquired 23.9 Goodwill arising 8.6 32.5 Satisfied by: Cash paid on completion funded from internally generated cash flows 29.0 Deferred consideration 3.5 Total consideration 32.5 All intangible assets were recognised at their provisional respective fair values.
The residual excess of the consideration paid over the net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill, of which 4.1 million is tax deductable.
This goodwill represents future benefits to the Group in terms of revenue, market share and delivering the Groups strategy.
The fair value adjustments contain provisional amounts, which will be finalised in 2015.
These adjustments reflect the recognition of trade names and associated deferred taxation, and adjustments to reflect the fair value of other working capital movements such as receivables, inventories and accruals which are immaterial.
All acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method.
None were individually material and consequently have been aggregated.
The aggregated impact of the acquisitions on the Income Statement for the period is not material.
Dignity plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 26 Acquisitions continued b Reconciliation to cash flow statement 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Cash paid on completion 29.0 61.7 Cash paid in respect of deferred consideration obligations 0.1 Cash acquired on acquisition 4.3 1.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses as reported in the cash flow statement 24.7 60.7 27 Employees and Directors 52 week period 52 week period ended ended 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 73.4 70.1 Social security costs 5.2 5.1 Other pension costs note 28 2.2 1.9 Share option charges note 23 2.0 1.5 82.8 78.6 Key management are considered to be the Board of Directors only.
Total key management remuneration in the period was 4.3 million 2013: 3.9 million, including 1.3 million 2013: 1.0 million of share option charges.
The monthly average number of people, including Directors, employed by the Group during the period was as follows: 2014 2013 Number Number Management and administration 159 148 Funeral services staff 2,229 2,194 Crematoria staff 324 316 Prearranged funeral plan staff 76 69 2,788 2,727 Directors emoluments Details of Directors emoluments are disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 52 to 58 which form part of these consolidated financial statements.
28 Pension commitments Defined contribution plans The Group contributes to certain individuals personal pension schemes.
These contributions are accounted for as defined contribution schemes.
Auto enrolment A defined contribution scheme is used to address the Groups obligations for auto enrolment.
Both the employee and the Group contribute four per cent of pensionable pay.
The pension costs for defined contribution schemes are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Defined contribution schemes 0.9 0.3 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101 28 Pension commitments continued Defined benefit plan The Group operates a defined benefit scheme the Dignity Pension and Assurance Scheme.
A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 6 April 2014 and updated to 26 December 2014 by a qualified independent Actuary.
After consultation with members of the defined benefit plan, the Group closed the scheme to new entrants on 1 October 2013 and employee contributions were increased to 10 per cent from 7 per cent of pensionable salaries, with the Group contributing the same amount an increase from 9.2 per cent.
The total monetary contribution paid by the employer for 2014 was 1.6 million 2013: 1.5 million.
In addition special contributions of 1.0 million 2013: 1.0 million have been paid to make the total contribution for the year 2.6 million 2013: 2.5 million.
The principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages were: 2014 2013 Assumptions % % Discount rate 3.7 4.7 Rate of increase in salaries 2.1 2.5 Rate of increase in payment of post April 1997 pensionable service 3.05 3.4 Rate of increase in payment of post April 2005 pensionable service 2.15 2.3 RPI price inflation assumption 3.1 3.5 CPI price inflation assumption 2.1 2.5 The demographic assumptions used include rates for mortality which, for example, lead to an average projected life expectancy of 20.7 2013: 20.6 years for male members and 26.0 2013: 26.0 years for female members currently aged 65 and of 21.9 2013: 21.9 years from age 65 for male members and 27.5 2013: 27.6 years from age 65 for female members currently aged 50.
Pensions and other postretirement obligations The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2014 2013 m m Fair value of plan assets 95.0 91.2 Present value of funded obligations 105.5 92.2 Net obligation recognised in the balance sheet 10.5 1.0 Analysis of amount charged to income statement in respect of defined benefit schemes 2014 2013 m m Current service cost included within cost of sales staff costs 1.3 1.6 Expected contributions to the Groups pension scheme for the 52 week period ended 25 December 2015 are approximately 1.5 million.
Analysis of fair value of plan assets 2014 2013 m % m % Equity and diversified growth funds 60.7 63.9 50.7 55.6 Debt 25.4 26.7 32.7 35.9 Cash 8.9 9.4 7.8 8.5 Fair value of plan assets 95.0 100.0 91.2 100.0 At 26 December 2014 and 27 December 2013 the Pension Trustees did not hold, on behalf of the scheme, any direct investments in the Group, nor did the Group occupy any property or other assets included with the fair value of plan assets.
Dignity plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 28 Pension commitments continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Present value of obligation at beginning of period 92.2 86.9 Current service cost 1.3 1.6 Interest cost 4.2 4.0 Benefits paid 3.7 3.5 Contributions by participants 1.5 1.2 Remeasurement losses financial 12.4 2.3 Remeasurement gains demographic 1.0 Remeasurement gains experience 1.4 0.3 Present value of obligation at end of period 105.5 92.2 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 91.2 87.0 Interest income on plan assets 4.2 4.0 Contributions by Group 2.6 2.5 Contributions by participants 1.5 1.2 Benefits paid 3.7 3.5 Remeasurement losses 0.8 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 95.0 91.2 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet obligation 2014 2013 m m At beginning of period 1.0 0.1 Total expense as above charged to the income statement 1.3 1.6 Remeasurement losses charged to other comprehensive income 10.8 2.0 Contributions by Group 2.6 2.5 At end of period 10.5 1.0 The actual return on plan assets was 3.5 million 2013: 4.0 million.
History of experience gains and losses 2014 2013 Experience adjustments arising on scheme liabilities: Amount m 1.4 0.2 Percentage of the present value of the schemes liabilities 1.3% 0.2% Present value of scheme liabilities m 105.5 92.2 Fair value of scheme assets m 95.0 91.2 Deficit m 10.5 1.0 Increase decrease in Liabilities Assets Deficit surplus Change in assumptions m m m m No change 105.5 95.0 10.5 0.25% rise in discount rate 101.1 95.0 6.1 4.4 0.25% fall in discount rate 110.1 95.0 15.1 4.6 0.25% rise in inflation 108.2 95.0 13.2 2.7 0.25% fall in inflation 102.4 95.0 7.4 3.1 The above sensitivity analysis has been determined by applying the results of a fully accurate sensitivity analysis as at 6 April 2014 to the value placed on the Scheme liabilities as at 26 December 2014, assuming that the proportionate impact of the change in assumptions would be the same.
It does not, therefore, allow for the impact of membership movements since 6 April 2014, although these would not be material.
The same methodology was used for the sensitivity analysis undertaken for the year ending 27 December 2013.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 103 28 Pension commitments continued Analysis of present value of scheme liabilities 2014 2013 Active members 36% 36% Deferred pensioners 26% 25% Current pensioners 38% 39% Average duration of liabilities 18 years 18 years Scheme characteristic The scheme is a final salary defined benefits scheme which was closed to new entrants on 1 October 2013.
It is administered by trustees in accordance with its Trust Deed & Rules and relevant legislation.
Member contributions are fixed with the employer meeting the balance of the costs of providing scheme benefits.
The contribution payable by the employer are set by the trustees after consulting the employer and in accordance with the funding requirements of the Pensions Act 2004.
Funding arrangements The Trustees use Projected Unit funding method.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation was undertaken as at 6 April 2014.
Currently both the Employer and Scheme members pay contributions at the rate of 10 per cent of pensionable pay.
The employer contributions include allowances for expenses of administering the scheme.
Funding Risks Investment return risk If the assets underperform the returns assumed in setting the funding targets then additional contributions may be required at subsequent valuations.
Investment match risk The scheme invests significantly in equities, whereas the funding targets are closely related to the returns on bonds.
If equities fall in value relative to the matching asset of bonds, additional contributions may be required.
Longevity risk If future improvements in longevity exceed the assumptions made for scheme funding then additional contributions may be required.
29 Prearranged funeral plans a Contingent liabilities and commitments Dignity Prearrangement Limited, Dignity Securities Limited and Advance Planning Limited are fellow members of the Dignity Group in the United Kingdom.
These companies have sold prearranged funeral plans to their clients in the past.
All monies from these sales are held and controlled by three independent Trusts, being the National Funeral Trust, the Dignity Limited Trust Fund and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans respectively the Principal Trusts.
Further details of the transactions can be found in the financial statements of these companies, which are available from 4 King Edwards Court, King Edwards Square, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands, B73 6AP.
The Group has given commitments to these clients to perform their funeral.
The agreed amounts payable to either the Group or to third party funeral directors will be paid out of the funds held in the Trusts.
Similar commitments have arisen following acquisitions of businesses since 2013, which had sold prearranged funeral plans through a similar trust based structure the Recent Trusts.
The Recent Trusts hold assets of approximately 24 million.
Only the National Funeral Trust and the Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans receive funds relating to the sale of new plans the Active Trusts.
It is the view of the Directors that none of the commitments given to these clients are onerous to the Group.
b Prearranged funeral plan trust assets The trustees have advised that the market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 678.0 million at 26 December 2014 2013: 578.9 million in respect of 275,000 2013: 257,000 unfulfilled prearranged funeral plans.
The remaining 73,000 2013: 66,000 unfulfilled prearranged funeral plans related to those backed by Insurance Plans, as described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The majority of the trustees of each of the prearranged funeral plan trusts are unconnected to the Group, as required by current UK legislation.
Dignity plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 29 Prearranged funeral plans continued The trustees of the Principal Trusts are required to have the Trusts liabilities actuarially valued once a year once every three years in the case of the Recent Trusts.
The trustees have advised that the latest actuarial valuations of the Principal Trusts were performed as at 26 September 2014 2013: 27 September 2013 using assumptions determined by the trustees.
These valuations showed the Trusts to have liabilities in respect of the prearranged funeral plan trusts of 612.9 million as at 26 September 2014 2013: 528.2 million.
The corresponding market value of the assets of the prearranged funeral plan trusts was 630.6 million 2013: 544.8 million as at the same date.
Consequently the actuarial valuations recorded total surpluses of 17.7 million at 26 September 2014 2013: 16.6 million.
The trustees have advised that the Recent Trusts have approximately 24 million of assets as at the balance sheet date and no material surplus or deficit.
Transactions with the Group During the period, the Group entered into transactions with the Principal Trusts and the Recent Trusts the Trusts associated with the prearranged funeral plan businesses.
The nature of the relationship with the Trusts is set out in the accounting policies.
Amounts may only be paid out of the Trusts in accordance with the relevant Trust Deeds.
Transactions principally comprise: The recovery of marketing and administration allowances in relation to plans sold net of cancellations: and Receipts from the Trusts in respect of funerals provided.
Transactions also include: Receipts from the Trusts in respect of cancellations by existing members: Reimbursement by the Trusts of expenses paid by the Group on behalf of the respective Trusts: and The payment of realised surpluses generated by the Trust funds as and when the trustees sanction such payments.
Transactions are summarised below: Amounts due to the Transactions during the period Group at the period end 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Dignity Limited Trust Fund 0.3 0.3 National Funeral Trust 34.8 31.1 2.4 1.5 Trust for Age UK Funeral Plans 35.1 34.0 2.8 1.5 Peace of Mind Trusts 1.5 1.2 0.3 0.1 A further 3.7 million 2013: 3.6 million is due from the Trusts after more than one year.
Average transaction amounts The Trusts hold assets of approximately 2,400 2013: 2,200 per active plan at the balance sheet date.
On average the Group received 2,300 2013: 2,200 for the performance of each funeral including amounts to cover disbursements such as crematoria fees, ministers fees and doctors fees.
30 Contingent liabilities a Securitisation As a result of the issue of New Notes, BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Security Trustee of the New Notes has the following guarantees and charges: The Dignity 2002 Group have granted the Security Trustee fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of i the Dignity 2002 Group: Dignity plc has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity 2004 Limited, Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity 2011 Limited and Dignity Holdings No.
3 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited and Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Holdings Limited: Dignity Holdings Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Mezzco Limited: Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 105 30 Contingent liabilities continued Dignity Holdings Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loans both interest and non interest bearing to Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity Mezzco Limited has also assigned to the Security Trustee by way of security with full title guarantee, its right title and interest in the loan to Dignity 2002 Limited: Dignity 2004 Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a floating charge over the assets now or in the future owned by Dignity 2004 Limited other than those assets validly and effectively charged by way of fixed security : Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited has granted the Security Trustee, with full title guarantee a floating charge over the assets now or in the future owned by each of Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited other than those assets validly and effectively charged by way of fixed security : ii The Guarantors each irrevocably and unconditionally jointly and severally guarantees to the Security Trustee punctual performance by each other Obligor of that Obligor's obligations and agrees as a primary obligation to indemnify the Security Trustee immediately on demand against any cost, loss or liability suffered by it if any obligation guaranteed by the Guarantors is or becomes unenforceable, invalid or illegal: Dignity Funerals Limited and Derriman & Haynes Funeral Services Limited has granted the Security Trustee with full title guarantee, a first legal mortgage over each of its rights, title and interest from time to time in properties situated in England and Wales: iii Dignity Funerals Limited has granted the Security Trustee with full title guarantee, a first legal mortgage over its rights, title and interest from time to time in properties situated in Northern Ireland: Dignity Finance PLC has granted BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited in its capacity as Note Trustee with full title guarantee, an assignment by way of security of its benefit in each Issuer Transaction Document other than the Trust Documents, the Security Trust Deed and each Obligor Security Document and charges by way of first fixed charge the benefit of its accounts: and Dignity Funerals Limited has, in respect of any Scottish property which is capable of being so charged, granted 'standard iv securities' in favour of the Security Trustee.
i Means Dignity 2002 Limited and its subsidiaries.
ii Means the Obligors other than Dignity 2002 Limited as Borrower, Dignity 2004 Limited, Dignity plc, Dignity Holdings No.
2 Limited, Dignity Holdings Limited and Dignity Mezzco Limited.
iii This mortgage is governed by the laws of Northern Ireland.
iv The standard securities are governed by Scots Law.
At 26 December 2014, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 595.3 million 2013: 419.3 million.
b Crematoria Acquisition Facility As a consequence of the legal structure of the 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility: Dignity 2008 Limited has granted Nat West, with full title guarantee a first fixed charge over the shares and any monies receivable in respect of the shares which it holds in Dignity Crematoria Limited and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited: Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity Crematoria Limited and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited have granted Nat West fixed and floating charges over the assets and undertakings of each of Dignity 2008 Limited, Dignity Crematoria Limited and Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited: and Dignity plc have acted as guarantor in the event that Dignity 2008 Limited fails to pay interest due on the facility.
In the opinion of the Directors no liability is likely to crystallise in respect of these guarantees.
At 26 December 2014, the amount outstanding in relation to these borrowings was 15.8 million 2013: 15.8 million.
31 Related party transactions There are no related party transactions for either period.
32 Post balance sheet events The Group has acquired six funeral locations since the balance sheet date for a total consideration of 3.2million.
Dignity plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Dignity plc Company balance sheet as at 26 December 2014 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 Note m m Fixed assets Investments C2 141.0 139.0 Current assets Debtors C3 160.7 156.6 Cash at bank and in hand 32.4 16.7 Total current assets 193.1 173.3 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year C4 12.7 13.6 Net current assets 180.4 159.7 Total assets less current liabilities 321.4 298.7 Net assets 321.4 298.7 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C5 6.1 6.0 Share premium account C5 2.8 20.8 Capital redemption reserve C5 141.7 121.6 Other reserves C5 3.2 3.2 Profit and loss account C5 167.6 147.1 Total shareholders funds C6 321.4 298.7 The financial statements on pages 106 to 109 were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2015 and were signed on its behalf by: M K McCollum S L Whittern Chief Executive Finance Director Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 107 Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 C1 Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in the financial statements.
In the current period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014.
For the comparative period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013.
Furthermore, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 29, Financial Instruments and Disclosures, not to disclose details of any financial instruments held.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
Impairment of fixed assets The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or at the end of the first full financial year following the recognition.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets below depreciated historical cost is charged to the profit and loss account within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Employee share schemes The Company operates two employee share schemes: The Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE and LongTerm Incentive Plan Scheme LTIP.
The Company applies UITF 44 in respect of share option schemes resulting in the charge for such schemes being recognised in a subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys financial statements reflect the cost of the scheme as an increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiary with the corresponding credit included within other reserves.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the substance of the transaction, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
Dignity plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2014 C2 Investments in subsidiary undertakings Cost and net book amount m At beginning of period 139.0 Additions in respect of sharebased payments 2.0 At end of period 141.0 Principal subsidiaries Number of shares at Percentage Company name Principal activity 26 December 2014 held Dignity Funerals Limited Funeral services 577,376,905 Ordinary at 0.1p each 100% Dignity Funerals No.
2 Limited Funeral services 1 Ordinary at 1 each 100% ceased trading in 2013 Dignity Funerals No.
3 Limited Funeral services 1 Ordinary at 1 each 100% Pitcher & Le Quesne Limited Funeral services 100 Ordinary at 1 each 99% Dignity Prearrangement Limited Prearranged funeral plans 5,001,001 Ordinary at 1 each 100% Dignity Securities Limited Prearranged funeral plans 19,801 Ordinary at 1 each 100% 750,000 8 pence Redeemable Preference Shares at 1 each 100% Advance Planning Limited Prearranged funeral plans 7,500 A Ordinary at 1 each 100% 2,500 B Ordinary at 1 each 100% 3,863,291 0.0000001 pence Redeemable Preference Shares at 1p each 100% Dignity Finance PLC Finance company 50,000 Ordinary at 1 each 100% Dignity 2002 Limited Intermediate holding company 220,000,004 Ordinary at 0.01p each 100% Dignity Crematoria No.
2 Limited Leasing of crematoria 2 Ordinary shares at 1 each 100% Dignity Crematoria Limited Construction and leasing of 10,000 A Ordinary at 1 each 100% crematoria 10,000 B Ordinary at 1 each 100% 10,000 C Ordinary at 1 each 100% 10,000 D Ordinary at 1 each 100% 10,000 E Ordinary at 1 each 100% All of the subsidiaries are incorporated in the United Kingdom except for Pitcher & Le Quesne Limited which is incorporated in Jersey and is controlled by the Group.
All of the above shareholdings are held indirectly, with the exception of Dignity 2004 Limited.
Additions in the period reflect the effect of capital contributions to subsidiaries as a result of sharebased payment schemes operated in those companys over the shares of Dignity plc.
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length, as the Company has in excess of 250 dormant subsidiaries and a number of intermediate holding companies.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
C3 Debtors 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Amounts owed by group undertakings 160.4 156.6 Other debtors 0.1 Corporation tax 0.2 160.7 156.6 C4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 12.4 12.4 Accruals 0.3 0.4 Corporation Tax 0.8 12.7 13.6 Overview Strategic Report Governance Other Information Financial Statements Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 109 C5 Called up share capital and reserves 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Allotted and fully paid Equity shares 49,170,180 2013: 53,343,871 Ordinary Shares of 12 48 143 pence 2013: 11 4 13 pence each 6.1 6.0 Each Ordinary Share carries equal voting rights and there are no restrictions on any share.
See note 22 of the Groups consolidated accounts for further details.
Share Capital premium redemption Other Profit and account reserve reserves loss account Total Reserves and share premium account m m m m m At beginning of period 20.8 121.6 3.2 147.1 292.7 Profit for the period 94.7 94.7 Effects of employee share options 2.0 2.0 Proceeds from share issue 2.1 2.1 Gift to Employee Benefit Trust 2.0 2.0 Issue and redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital Option 20.1 20.1 20.1 20.1 Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option 44.3 44.3 Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares 9.8 9.8 At end of period 2.8 141.7 3.2 167.6 315.3 The capital redemption reserve represents 80,002,465 B Shares that were issued on 2 August 2006 and redeemed for cash on the same day, 19,274,610 B Shares that were issued on 10 October 2010 and redeemed for cash on 11 October 2010, 22,263,112 B Shares that were issued on 12 August 2013 and redeemed for cash on 20 August 2013 and 20,154,070 B Shares that were issued and redeemed for cash in November 2014.
9.6 million 2013: 7.6 million in other reserves relates to investments in own shares and therefore reduces profit available for distribution.
C6 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 26 December 27 December 2014 2013 m m Profit for the period 94.7 66.8 Effects of employee share options 2.0 1.5 Issue costs in respect of shares issued 0.9 Proceeds from share issue 2.2 26.9 Gift to Employee Benefit Trust 2.0 1.7 Issue and redemption of B Shares in respect of Capital Option 20.1 22.3 Dividend in respect of Special Dividend Option 44.3 39.6 Dividends paid on Ordinary Shares 9.8 6.2 Net additions to shareholders funds 22.7 24.5 Opening shareholders funds 298.7 274.2 Closing shareholders funds 321.4 298.7 Amounts payable to the Groups auditors relating to the Company are included in note 5 of the Group financial statements and are not material to disclose separately.
C7 Staff costs Directors remuneration The Directors are directors of the ultimate parent company, Dignity plc and details of their emoluments are included in pages 52 to 58.
They received no emoluments in respect of their services to the Company 2013: nil.
C8 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, not to disclose transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings, whose voting rights are controlled within the Dignity plc group.
There are no other related party transactions for either period requiring disclosure.
