Investor Information Other Shareholder Information Registered office Unsolicited mail Maylands Avenue, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire HP2 7TG, The Company is obliged to make its share register available to UK United Kingdom.
Registered in England, company no.
third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
com shareholders receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: The Mailing Registrars and transfer office Preference Service, FREEPOST 29, LON20771, London, W1E Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 0ZT or register on their website at www.
Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.30am ShareGift 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
If calling from abroad the number is The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share 44 20 8639 3399.
The website address is: donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares www.
com whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift website: Joint brokers www.
org Citigroup Global Markets, Barclays.
Shareholder enquiries Shareholders can access shareholding details over the internet via our Registrars secure portal at www.
com As well as checking name, address and shareholding details in Alternative format the Shareholder Help section, you can download change of address, dividend mandate and stock transfer forms.
This is a secure site and you will need to register first.
Please follow the If you would like this Annual simple instructions on the website.
So that the system can validate your enquiries an Investor Code is required.
Report and Accounts or any other shareholder documentation This is a numerical account number and can be found on your share certificate.
in an alternative format, Share dealing service please send a request to On-line and telephone share dealing services are available to corporate.
com shareholders through our Registrars, providing easy access and simple to use services.
There is no need to pre-register and the or telephone 00 44 0 344 800 2030 facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
In order to deal via these facilities you will need your Investor Code see above as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the on-line dealing service are available on www.
com and the telephone dealing service is on 0871 664 0384 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00am 4.30pm Monday to Friday.
Dixons Retail plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support This has been a great year for the Group with some excellent performances across our multi-channel businesses, together with the achievement of a number of important strategic objectives.
Our profits are up 76% from those we reported a year ago and up 10% on a restated basis.
This not only reflects the fact we have now exited all of our non-core markets, meaning we are now a leader in all our core markets, but is also a testament to the creativity and hard work of our teams.
The Group is in robust financial health with further cash generation resulting in a strong net cash position even after the costs incurred in exiting the non-core businesses.
Best of all, our customer service metrics have again reached new records.
All of this all means that the Group is stronger both commercially and financially than it has been for a number of years and we are well positioned to set sail into new waters.
I am very excited about the opportunities that the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse offers for the Group.
We will build what I hope will be the first and best truly multi-channel proposition that allows customers not only to buy and experience the explosion of new connected products that are emerging, but to also get the advice, connectivity and services that will allow them to use technology as it should be used to make their lives better.
In turn, this will allow us profoundly to change the nature of what we do: we will move from a transactional to a lifelong relationship with customers everywhere.
In the meantime the new financial year has started well, with an uplift in TV sales driven by the World Cup, but we also believe we are seeing the early glimmers of a consumer recovery.
On this there is no certainty just yet, but what we know for sure is that if we maintain a tight rein on costs, our pricing sharp against all comers and our service levels high, customers will continue to choose us over others.
Sebastian James Group Chief Executive 25 June 2014 Investor Relations app To be directed to the Dixons Retail corporate website, scan To get the latest Annual and Interim Reports, Presentations the code below.
and Trading Updates on your iPad or iPhone, scan the code to download our IR app.
Cautionary statement Certain statements made in this Annual Report and Accounts are forward looking.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or accounting standards, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should Produced by Whitehouse Associates London be regarded as a profit forecast.
Printed by DG3 Group Holdings Ltd on FSC certified paper.
DG3s Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Horizon Offset which is manufactured at an ISO14001 certified paper mill.
Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 www.
com @DixonsRetail Dixons Retail plc Maylands Avenue Hemel Hempstead Hertfordshire HP2 7TG United Kingdom Tel: 0344 800 2030 www.
