STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SHARE PRICE CHOOSE TO RECEIVE YOUR NEXT DIVIDEND IN YOUR LOCAL CURRENCY Information about the Companys share price may be obtained If you live outside the UK, Capita has partnered with Deutsche from the following sources: Bank to provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can FT Cityline Service Telephone 09058 171 690 choose to receive payment directly into your local bank account, The financial pages of The Times newspaper or alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
com Other financial websites under the EPIC symbol DNO You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES onyour dividend options and following the on screen instructions All administrative enquiries regarding shareholdings such as orby contacting the Customer Support Centre.
questions about dividend payment or lost share certificates should be addressed to the Companys Registrars: For further information contact Capita: Capita Asset Services By phone UK 0871 664 0385 UK calls cost 10 pence per The Registry minute plus network extras.
34 Beckenham Road Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Beckenham, Kent public holidays.
BR3 4TU T: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, By e-mail ips@capita.
co. uk lines are open Mon-Fri 9.00am5.30pm INFORMATION RIGHTS OF BENEFICIAL OWNERS SHARES T overseas : 44 208 639 3399 Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been Email: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive Web: www.
com information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 SHARE PORTAL are required to direct all communications to the registered holder The Share Portal is a secure online site where you can manage of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrar, Capita your shareholding quickly and easily.
COMPANY SECRETARY View your holding and get an indicative valuation Richard J Pryn LLB Change your address Arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account INVESTOR CONTACT Request to receive shareholder communications by email rather Andrew Herbert than post Chief Financial Officer View your dividend payment history Domino Printing Sciences plc Make dividend payment choices Bar Hill Buy and sell shares and access a wealth of stock market news Cambridge and information CB23 8TU Register your proxy voting instruction T: 44 0 1954 781 888 Download a stock transfer form.
com To register for the Share Portal just visit www.
All you need is your investor code, which can be found on INFORMATION your share certificate or your dividend tax voucher.
Information about the Company is available on the Internet.
Dominos website address is www.
com SIGN UP TO ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Help us to save paper and get your shareholder information The website has general information about the Group and details quickly and securely by signing up to receive your shareholder of its product ranges.
The text of Dominos results announcements communications by email.
is also posted on this site.
Registering for electronic communications is very straightforward.
All you need is your investor 6 March 2015 Record date for final dividend code, which can be found on your share certificate or your 18 March 2015 Annual General Meeting dividend tax voucher.
10 April 2015 Payment date for final dividend Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 |133
