FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS The financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25February 2015 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by David Wild.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated inthe United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and itsregistered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB.
The Companys Ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FCA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 28 December 2014.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 and applied in accordance withthe Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the52 weeks ended 28 December 2014.
Sales andcost of sales have been re-presented for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 for the Switzerland segment to more accurately present the classification of internal sales.
This has resulted in an adjustment between revenue and cost of sales for 2,083,000 and does not have a profit impact on either the operating results of the segment or the Group as a whole.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwiseindicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors report for further details.
The following amendments to standards are effective for this financial year but have not had significant impact on the reported financial performance or position of the Group.
o IFRS 13, 'Fair value measurement' effective 1 January 2013 : IFRS 13 describes how to measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted by IFRS.
The Group does not have significant items valued at fair value, however, in line with the new standard, additional disclosures have been made up to help users understand the valuation techniques used when fair value measurements are made.
o Amendments to IFRS 7 on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting effective 1 January 2013 : This amendment provides enhanced disclosure of offsetting financial assets and liabilities.
The Group does not have any significant offsetting financial instruments.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: o A key judgement was required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited during the 52 weeks ended 27December 2009.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 and resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets, contingent consideration and a credit to the 2009 income statement relating to the accounting for the excess of fair value of net assets over consideration.
See note 24 for further details.
Had this transaction been accounted for as an asset purchase, the deferred tax assets and day one non-underlying credit in the income statement would not have been reflected.
Instead, the Group tax charge would have benefited from tax relief over the period of the leases acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
o Franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand the Fund.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective ofdriving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet.
o As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the Group income statement.
o The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
o The cash flows relating to the Fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: o A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued o The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
o Determining the fair value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired in business combinations requires the use of estimates regarding the value of the intangible assets and deferred consideration payable in particular.
These values are determined using discounted cash flows based on latest approved budgets which necessarily include estimates concerning factors such as levels of sales and timing of store openings.
Subsequent impairment reviews also require the use of estimates to value the cash generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
These value in use calculations are re-run on an annual basis for goodwill or when there is an indicator of impairment for tangible and intangible fixed assets to determine whether there is any impairment to the carrying value of assets arising from business combinations.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn uptothe nearest Sunday to 31 December each year.
The interim results are prepared for the first 26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated upon consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control overasubsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences and any gains on losses on transactions with owners in their capacity asowners recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and are presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary areattributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group has also entered into a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of agreements to share control over other entities.
Where the joint venture is established through aninterest in a company, the Group recognises its interest in the entities assets and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement reflects the Groups share of the associate or joint ventures results after tax.
The Group statement of changes in equity reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate or joint venture outside profit and loss.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint venture, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associate or joint ventures identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the associate orjoint ventures profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates and joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group, to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and toreflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share ofunrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures.
Foreign currencies Foreign operations The income and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate on the transaction date.
The balance sheet of the overseas subsidiary undertaking is translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, areincluded in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised asincome or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby  differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 thedate of transition to IFRS.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 2.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies continued Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates oftheinitial transactions.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition-date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a transaction bytransaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation ofembedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fairvalue of any contingent consideration deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or inother comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and, where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of theacquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed inexchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships orpost-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criteria are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combinations is, from the acquisition-date, allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Eachunit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and will not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
When goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation, when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed ofinthis circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained.
Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on astraight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
Franchise fees Franchise fees are fees paid towards the acquisition of the master franchise for the markets in which the Group operate.
These are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
The useful economic lives of the assets are considered to be the life of the MFA they relate to which is typically 30 years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following basis: o Freehold land Not depreciated o Freehold buildings 50 years o Assets under construction Not depreciated o Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease o Fixtures and fittings Over five to 10 years o Supply Chain Centre equipment Over three to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority ofassets within Supply Chain Centre equipment are being depreciated over 10 years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated asthedifference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset isderecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at cost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition isregarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within 12 months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal in its present condition.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
After classification as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on the assets.
Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
Allother leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 2.
Accounting policies continued Impairment of assets continued An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that isthe case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflowofeconomic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, itscarrying amount is the present value of those cash flows where the impact of discounting is material.
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Present obligations arising under onerous lease contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist when the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based onestimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have seven to 28 days terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability ofrecovery is considered remote.
The Group provides interest-free loans to assist franchisees in the opening of new stores, the difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised as an intangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated via the royalty income and Supply Chain Centre sales that will be generated.
These assets are amortised over the life of a new franchise agreement of 10 years.
National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the national advertising fund.
TheGroup operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specifically used to payfor marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at break-even with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: Dominos Pizza Group plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued Income taxes continued o where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: o in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and o deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza Group plc shares held by the Company and its Employee Benefit Trust EBT are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
TheEBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
Franchisee rebates are recognised as an expense within revenue on an accruals basis on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to the balance sheet date.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue from pizza delivery, Supply Chain Centre formerly known as Commissary and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers andfranchisees.
Franchise fees The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee: it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight-line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance lease interest income is recognised as set out inthe leasing accounting policy.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs should commence when: o expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and o activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 2.
Accounting policies continued Borrowing costs continued Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part is possible as construction continues, capitalisation for each part ceases on substantial completion of that part.
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Non-GAAP performance measures The Directors believe that the underlying profit before tax and earnings per share measures provide additional useful information for shareholders onthe underlying performance of the business.
These measures are consistent with how underlying business performance is measured internally.
The underlying profit before tax measure is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures used by other companies.
The adjustments made to profit before tax are to exclude the following amounts: o expense to establish provisions for lease obligations which will become onerous as a result of a non-recurring event and re-measurement of such amounts in subsequent periods: o impairment charges in respect of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment arising from a significant business restructuring and or non-recurring event: o restructuring costs in respect of a significant business restructuring: and o transaction costs in respect of business combinations and acquisition of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using theHoadley model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required tobe met inorder for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired andthe Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with the corresponding increase in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
This includes any where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are treated equally.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share further details are given in note 12.
The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards so as to apply IFRS 2 only to those equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 3 January 2005.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU, none of which are anticipated to significantly impact the Groups results or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require significant disclosure.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied continued Effective date International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement 1 January 2018 IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities Amendment 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2017 International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting of Assets and Liabilities 1 January 2014 IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016 IAS 36 Amendment to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets 1 January 2014 Other IFRIC Interpretation 21 IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014 3.
Revenue Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Royalties, corporate store sales and sales to franchisees 277,305 253,686 Rental income on leasehold and freehold property 16,945 15,057 Finance lease income 128 159 294,378 268,902 4.
Segmental information For management purposes, the Group is organised into four geographical business units, based on the territories governed by the MFA: the UK, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
These are considered to be the Groups operating segments as the information provided to thechief operating decision makers, who are considered to be the Executive Directors of the Board, is based on these territories.
Revenue included in each includes all sales royalties, Supply Chain Centre sales, rental income and finance lease income made to franchise stores and by corporate stores located in that segment.
Segment results for the Ireland segment include both the ROI andNorthern Ireland as both of these territories are served by the same Supply Chain Centre.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss.
Group financing including finance costs and financerevenue and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Unallocated assets include cash and cash equivalents and taxation assets.
Unallocated liabilities include the bank revolving facility, bank loans, deferred consideration and taxation liabilities.
Sales and cost of sales have been re-presented for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 for the Switzerland segment to more accurately present the classification of internal sales.
At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Deferred tax asset 8,507 9,417 Cash and cash equivalents 33,743 31,597 Unallocated assets 42,250 41,014 Deferred consideration Dominos Leasing Limited 6,324 7,326 Current tax liabilities 5,072 3,323 Deferred tax liabilities 95 167 Bank revolving facility 5,447 29,814 Bank loans 15,000 13,000 Unallocated liabilities 31,938 53,630 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 4.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
Group operating profit This is stated after charging: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,832 2,811 Amortisation of prepaid lease charges 198 206 Amortisation of intangible assets 2,794 2,781 Total depreciation and amortisation expense 5,824 5,798 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments land and buildings 17,938 16,518 plant, machinery and vehicles 2,936 3,021 Total operating lease payments recognised in the income statement 20,874 19,539 Impairment loss recognised on non-current assets 1,036 19,599 Net foreign currency loss gain 102 653 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 132,085 125,060 6.
Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Audit of the financial statements 151 109 Audit of subsidiaries 88 60 Total audit 239 169 Audit-related assurance services 51 30 Total non-audit services 51 30 Total fees 290 199 Of which 2,000 2013: 2,000 relates to the Company.
"Items excluded from non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax a Included within operating profit 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Onerous leases 492 949 Master Franchise Agreement ""MFA"" and related costs 9,267 Corporate Stores 4,945 Goodwill 2,928 Property, plant and equipment 1,036 2,164 Website and domain costs 295 Impairments 1,036 19,599 Acquisition costs and restructuring costs relating to Domino's Pizza Switzerland 42 Acquisition costs and one-off costs relating to new UK joint ventures 152 Amounts in connection with acquisition of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries 110 Transition of German Corporate Stores 1,981 Amounts receivable in Germany 3,438 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 102 1,119 Domino's Leasing Limited deferred consideration 324 Other restructuring and one-off items 102 6,862 1,426 27,520 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 7."
Items excluded from non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax continued a Included within operating profit continued Onerous leases An onerous lease charge of 0.5m 2013: 0.9m was made in respect of unused properties in Germany relating to last years restructuring activities, and an unsuccessful concept store in the UK.
Impairments Impairments of 1.0m relate to store assets in Germany following restructuring activities that carried on into the first half of the year, and an unsuccessful new format Extra stores in the UK.
In 2013, the performance of the German business fell below expectations and management announced a change in strategy for the German business opening fewer stores than initially expected and reducing its expectations for sales and profit growth.
As a result, management prepared updated financial budgets for the next five years and used these to calculate medium and long term discounted cash flows for the German business using a long term average growth rate for Germany of 1.4% and a discount rate of 13%.
Following these calculations, the Group recognised a number of impairment charges related to the German business: o a charge of 9,267,000 in relation to the value in use of the German Master Franchise Agreement: o a charge of 4,945,000 in relation to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of the 15 corporate stores: o a charge of 2,164,000 in relation to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment in the Supply Chain Centre and Dsseldorf head office: and o a charge of 295,000 in relation to the carrying value of capitalised website and development costs.
Additionally, the Group is obliged test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, due to goodwill being deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In2013, management deemed that the goodwill was fully impaired and recognised a charge of 2,928,000.
Amounts in connection with acquisition of joint ventures, associates and subsidiaries Costs of 0.1m were incurred in 2013 in relation to the acquisition and transfer of stores into two UK joint ventures with third-party franchisees.
Other restructuring and one-off items The charge recognised in 2013 of 6.9m included transition of German corporate stores to franchisees, German bad debt write-off and costs to restructure the UK and German businesses.
The 0.1m credit in 2014 represents the release of the unused provision for German restructuring costs recognised in 2013. b Included below operating profit Other gains and losses This includes a 0.9m credit in relation to the release of contingent consideration in respect of Dominos Pizza Switzerland following final settlement with the vendor and a 0.2m credit in respect of the sale of store assets.
In 2013, a profit of 1.7m was recognised on the sale of Dominoid Limited.
Discount unwind on items included in finance expense A charge of 0.7m has been recognised in respect of discount unwind on items included in finance expense 2013: 0.2m.
Change in tax rates In 2013, the Group incurred a non-underlying tax charge of 1.6m in relation to an adjustment to deferred tax following a change in tax law.
Theimpact of these tax rate changes has been classified as non-underlying due to its material impact on the Groups tax charge for the period.
This charge is reduced by nil 2013: 2.3m to become a credit of nil 2013: 0.6m due to the tax impact of other non-underlying items disclosed above.
Employee benefits and Directors remuneration a Employee benefits expense 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Wages and salaries 29,941 27,390 Social security costs 3,214 3,470 Other pension costs 797 569 Share-based payment charge 899 613 34,851 32,042 Dominos Pizza Group plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Employee benefits and Directors remuneration continued a Employee benefits expense continued The average monthly number of employees during the year was made up as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 Administration 267 277 Production and distribution 284 257 Corporate stores 392 551 942 1,085 b Directors remuneration 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Directors remuneration 2,395 1,527 Aggregate contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 78 105 Number of Directors accruing benefits under: defined contribution schemes 4 2 Additional information regarding Directors remuneration is included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 61.
Included in Directors' remuneration above are termination payments totalling 194,000 2013: nil.
Finance income 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Bank interest receivable 107 72 Franchisee loans 111 134 Other interest 163 270 Unwinding of discount 239 313 Total finance income 620 789 The finance income relates to financial assets at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, including income related to DP Capital Limited and Dominos Leasing reported in revenue, is 748,000 2013: 949,000.
Finance expense 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Bank loan 10 206 Bank revolving credit facility interest payable 853 706 Other interest payable 79 165 Foreign exchange 329 Unwinding of discount 725 263 Total finance expense 1,996 1,340 The finance expense relates to financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Total interest on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, including loans cost related to DP Capital Limited and Dominos Leasing Limited reported within cost of sales, is 1,894,000 2013: 1,486,000.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 11.
Taxation a Tax on profit on ordinary activities 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Tax charged in the income statement Current income tax: UK corporation tax: current period 9,780 7,646 adjustment in respect of prior periods 160 440 9,628 7,206 Income tax of overseas operations on profits for the period 415 375 Total current income tax 10,043 7,581 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,802 97 Effect of change in tax rate 1,628 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 786 161 Total deferred tax 1,016 1,886 Tax charge in the income statement 11,059 9,467 The tax charge in the income statement is disclosed as follows: Income tax expense on continuing operations 11,059 9,467 Tax relating to items credited charged to equity Reduction in current tax liability as a result of the exercise of share options 214 662 Origination and reversal of temporary differences in relation to unexercised share options 178 286 Tax credit in the Group statement of changes in equity 392 376 There is no tax impact in relation to the foreign exchange differences in the statement of comprehensive income.
b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 is higher than the statutory corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.3%.
The differences are reconciled below: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Profit before taxation 53,797 21,590 Accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory rate of corporation tax of 21.5% 2013: 23.3% 11,566 5,030 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 633 3,199 Accounting depreciation not eligible for tax purposes 310 196 Adjustments relating to prior years 909 277 Difference between current and deferred tax rates 232 1,628 Other 18 1 Tax rate differences 327 310 Total tax expense reported in the income statement 11,059 9,467 Effective tax rate % 20.6 43.8 Underlying effective tax rate % 20.1 21.1 In his budget on 20 March 2013, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced further changes to the corporation tax rates, which will have an effect on the Groups current and future tax position.
The changes announced were further decreases to the standard rate of corporation tax, with the rate set to be reduced to 20%, effective 1 April 2015.
The reduction of the UK corporation tax rate to 23% from April 2013, 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015 had been substantively enacted during the prior year.
The effect of these changes to the UK tax system have been reflected in the Groups financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 and for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 to the extent that they had been substantively enacted by that date.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Taxation continued c Temporary differences associated with Group investments At 28 December 2014, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2013: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associates, as there are no corporation tax consequences of the Groups UK, Irish or overseas subsidiaries or associates paying dividends to their parent companies.
There are also no income tax consequences for the Group attaching to the payment of dividends by the Group to its shareholders.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items 8,203 9,194 Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains 65 110 Deferred tax arising on acquisition of subsidiary in previous periods 274 166 8,412 9,250 At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Gross movement in the deferred income tax account Opening balance 9,250 11,422 Tax credit charge to equity 178 286 Income statement charge 1,016 1,886 Closing balance 8,412 9,250 Deferred tax arising in the UK on non-capital items Accelerated Share-based capital Lease Goodwill and payments allowances inducements amortisation Provisions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 30 December 2012 811 11,077 207 13 278 12,360 Charge to equity 286 286 Charge credit to income 71 3,185 41 417 2,880 At 29 December 2013 454 7,892 166 13 695 9,194 Credit to equity 178 178 Charge credit to income 23 1,289 15 158 1,169 At 28 December 2014 609 6,603 151 13 853 8,203 A deferred tax asset of 8,203,000 2013: 9,194,000 has been recognised to the extent that future taxable profits are expected to be in excess ofthe profits arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences.
The Group has tax losses of 79,000 2013: 51,000 which arose in relation to the Swiss business during the period and are available for offset against future taxable profits in Switzerland.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to these taxable losses in Switzerland on the basis they are expected to be recovered in the near future.
In addition there are 901,000 of losses 2013: 1,128,000 that have arisen in Germany and Cyprus in current and prior periods which are available for offset against future taxable profits in these jurisdictions.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses due to the uncertain timing of the availability of future profits in these territories.
Taxable losses that have arisen in the period in the German branch of Dominos Pizza Germany Limited are available to surrender as Group relief to the UK Group and have been fully utilised.
There is no tax deduction for the goodwill which arose on the acquisition of Germany and Switzerland in previous years.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 11.
Taxation continued d Deferred tax continued Deferred tax arising in the UK and ROI on capital gains Accelerated Roll-over capital relief allowances Total 000 000 000 At 30 December 2012 23 85 108 Credit charge to income 1 3 1 At 29 December 2013 22 88 110 Credit to income 45 45 At 28 December 2014 22 43 65 Deferred tax arising on other overseas subsidiaries 000 At 30 December 2012 830 Credit to income 996 At 29 December 2013 166 Credit to income 108 At 28 December 2014 274 Included within the above is a deferred tax asset of 303,000 2013: 233,000 in relation to the recognition of Switzerland tax losses and a deferred tax liability relating to accelerated capital allowances in Cyprus and the ROI.
Deferred tax in respect of Switzerland cannot be offset against the deferred tax in respect of Cyprus and the ROI as the Group does not have a legally enforceable right to offset these assets and liabilities due to their arising in differing territories.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Ordinary shares that would have been issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary shares into Ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Profit for the period 42,738 12,123 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 200 5,445 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 42,938 17,568 At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 Number Number Basic weighted average number of shares excluding treasury shares 165,471,079 163,737,665 Dilutive potential Ordinary shares: Employee share options 547,979 614,168 Reversionary interests 582,848 270,470 Diluted weighted average number of shares 166,601,906 164,622,303 The performance conditions for reversionary interests granted over nil shares 2013: 1,021,684 and share options granted over 1,087,596 shares 2013: 1,319,391 have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end have not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
There are 3,000,000 share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation because they are anti dilutive 2013: nil.
See note 30 forfurther information on reversionary interests and share options.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 88 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Earnings per share continued Underlying earnings per share The Group presents as non-underlying items under the income statement and in note 7, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better the trends in financial performance.
To this end, basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations per share is also presented on this basis and using the weighted average number of shares for both basic and diluted amounts as per the table above.
The amounts for earnings per share from continuing operations on an underlying basis are as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 Basic earnings per share 25.9p 10.7p Diluted earnings per share 25.8p 10.7p Underlying earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 26.6p 24.0p Diluted earnings per share 26.4p 23.9p Underlying profit attributable to owners of the parent is derived as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 Notes 000 000 Profit for the period 42,738 12,123 Adjusted for non-controlling interests 200 5,445 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 42,938 17,568 Amounts excluded from underlying profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,026 21,805 Amounts included in operating profit 7 1,426 27,520 Other gains and losses 7 1,147 1,745 Discount unwind 7 722 236 Impact of non-controlling interest related non-underlying items 3,584 Taxation impact 25 2,250 Change in corporation tax rate impact on deferred tax asset 1,628 Attributable to owners of the parent 43,964 39,373 13.
Dividends paid and proposed 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Declared and paid during the year: Equity dividends on Ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2013: 8.80p 2012: 7.90p 14,551 12,936 Interim dividend for 2014: 7.81p 2013: 7.10p 12,929 11,673 Dividends paid 27,480 24,609 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM not recognised as a liability at 28 December 2014 or29December 2013 Final dividend for 2014: 9.69p 2013: 8.80p 16,034 14,432 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 14.
Intangible assets Franchise Goodwill fees Software Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost or valuation At 30 December 2012 4,257 13,957 8,205 552 26,971 Additions 2,813 2,813 Disposals 39 39 Foreign exchange on translation 319 230 4 553 At 29 December 2013 4,576 14,187 11,022 513 30,298 Additions 2,479 2,479 Foreign exchange on translation 71 190 50 10 321 At 28 December 2014 4,505 13,997 13,451 503 32,456 Depreciation and impairment At 30 December 2012 1,468 2,381 30 3,879 Provided during the year 347 2,384 50 2,781 Impairment 2,928 9,314 297 12,539 Foreign exchange on translation 131 3 128 At 29 December 2013 2,928 10,998 5,065 80 19,071 Provided during the year 130 2,614 50 2,794 Impairment 86 86 Foreign exchange on translation 14 44 58 At 28 December 2014 2,928 11,114 7,721 130 21,893 Net book value at 28 December 2014 1,577 2,883 5,730 373 10,563 Net book value at 29 December 2013 1,648 3,189 5,957 433 11,227 Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination or are established as a result of the business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: At At 28 December 30 December 2014 2013 000 000 Switzerland 1,577 1,648 1,577 1,648 The Group is obliged to test goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired, due to the goodwill deemed to have an indefinite useful life.
In order to perform this test, management is required to compare the carrying value of the relevant cash generating unit CGU including the goodwill with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amounts of the CGU are determined from a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions for the valuation are those regarding discount rates, store openings and expected changes to level of sales in stores.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Growth rates are based on market growth forecasts.
Changes in levels of AWUS average weekly unit sales and store openings are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next five years and extrapolates cash flows for the remaining term of the based on the average long-term growth rate of 1.6% for Switzerland, which do not exceed theaverage long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from the Swiss CGU is 11.5%.
The Group also has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU carrying value including reducing sales level and changing discount rates.
In respect of the Swiss CGU, no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions to the valuation would give rise to an impairment charge.
In 2013, the recoverable amount of the German CGU was calculated using a long-term average growth rate for Germany of 1.4% and a discount rate of13%.
As a result of comparing the carrying value of the CGU with its recoverable amount, management determined that the carrying value of German goodwill was fully impaired and an impairment charge of 2,928,000 was recognised as non-underlying expense within the Group income statement.
Franchise fees consist of costs relating to the MFA for the UK, ROI, Germany and Switzerland.
The UK and ROI MFA runs into perpetuity, with a development clause that is renewable on a 10 year basis.
The German and Swiss MFAs have terms of 30 years.
Included above are intangible assets with a carrying value of 373,000 2013: 433,000 in relation to interest-free loans given to franchisees toassist in the opening of new stores.
The difference between the present value of loan recognised and the cash advanced has been capitalised asanintangible asset in recognition of the future value that will be generated.
The amortisation of intangible assets is included within administration expenses in the income statement.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 90 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Capitalised financing costs Included within freehold land and buildings is an amount of 1,156,000 2013: 1,178,000 of capitalised financing costs relating to the revolving credit facility used to finance the building of the new Supply Chain Centre and head office.
Tax relief on capitalised interest is claimed in full in the period in which the interest is paid.
For details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for liabilities see note 23.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 16.
Prepaid operating lease charges At At 28 December 30 December 2014 2013 Note 000 000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,514 1,696 Additions 80 22 Disposal Impairment 7 144 Foreign exchange on translation 18 2 Amortisation 198 206 Balance at the end of the period 1,270 1,514 Analysed as follows: Non-current assets 1,072 1,286 Current assets 198 228 1,270 1,514 17.
Trade and other receivables Included in non-current assets: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,387 1,938 Loans to franchisees 1,957 4,330 Other receivables 1,235 1,488 4,579 7,756 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Included in current assets: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Trade receivables 9,908 11,695 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 1,995 1,267 Loans to franchisees 2,505 3,395 Other receivables 6,732 8,349 Prepayments and accrued income 13,842 9,660 34,982 34,366 Financial assets at amortised cost.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Sterling 7,995 9,292 Euro 1,887 2,398 Swiss franc 26 5 9,908 11,695 The euro-denominated receivables relate to franchisee receivables within the Groups Irish and German operations, the functional currency of which is the euro.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on seven to 28 days terms.
As at 28 December 2014, trade receivables at nominal value of2,472,000 2013: 1,574,000 were provided for.
During the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 bad debts of nil were written off as part of the onerous lease costs 2013: 154,000.
These related to rentals due from commercial properties non-franchisee and have been included within the non-GAAP measure within onerous lease costs note 7.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 92 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.
Trade and other receivables continued Trade receivables continued The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor Total impaired 30 days 30 days 000 000 000 000 As at 28 December 2014 9,908 6,234 1,385 2,289 As at 29 December 2013 11,695 5,269 1,692 4,734 Loans to franchisees Loans to franchisees are repayable within one to five years.
The loans are either interest free or bear interest on a quarterly basis at an average of 3.0% above LIBOR and are repaid in monthly or quarterly instalments.
Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts owed by associates 2,270 1,908 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1,112 1,297 3,382 3,205 Included within the balance due from associates are loan balances totalling 1,083,000 2013: 1,540,000 due from Full House Restaurants Limited.
Included within the balance due from joint ventures are loan balances of 477,000 due from DP Shayban Limited 2013: 673,000 and 378,000 due from Dominos Pizza West Country Limited 2013: 302,000.
The terms of these loans are consistent with the loan terms provided to franchisees see above.
The remainder of the balance due from associates and joint ventures represents trading balances.
An analysis is provided below of the movement in trading and loan balances with associates and joint ventures: Trading Loan balance balance Total 000 000 000 At 30 December 2012 747 3,143 3,890 Movement in trading balance 58 58 Repayment of loan balance 730 730 Increase in loan balance 387 387 Debts provided for 284 284 At 29 December 2013 689 2,516 3,205 Movement in trading balance 756 756 Repayment of loan balance 734 734 Increase in loan balance 155 155 Debts provided for At 28 December 2014 1,445 1,937 3,382 The movement in the trading balance is included within the increase in receivables in cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement.
Other receivables Included in the current element of other receivables is the National Advertising Fund NAF balance of 1,558,000 2013: 4,379,000 due tothedifference in timing between cash flows of the marketing activities committed to by the fund and contributions received from franchisees.
Total contributions made to the fund during the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 were 32,030,000 2013: 25,443,000.
The outstanding balance of the NAF bears interest at 4.5% above Barclays Bank plc base rate.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 18.
Financial assets The balance shown in franchisee leasing consists of leases over store equipment granted to franchisees on terms of between one and five years bearing interest at fixed rates of an average of 5.7% 2013: 6.4%.
At At 28 December 30 December 2014 2013 000 000 Net investment in finance leases 2,185 2,636 Analysis of net investment in finance leases Current 900 1,108 Non-current 1,285 1,528 2,185 2,636 Future minimum payments receivable: At At 28 December 30 December 2014 2013 000 000 Not later than one year 997 934 After one year but not more than five years 1,363 1,895 2,360 2,829 Less: finance income allocated to future periods 175 193 2,185 2,636 The present value of minimum lease payments receivable is analysed as follows: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Not later than one year 900 1,108 After one year but not more than five years 1,285 1,528 2,185 2,636 19.
Investments in associates and joint ventures At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Investment in associates 1,381 1,006 Investment in joint ventures 5,789 5,152 7,170 6,158 a Investment in associates The Group has a 41% interest in Full House Restaurants Limited, a private company that manages pizza delivery stores in the UK.
Thisinterest isaccounted for as an associate as the Group has significant influence but does not control the entity or have joint control.
In the prior year, the Group disposed of its interests in Dominoid and Mungo Park for cash consideration of 2,621,000 less transaction costs of244,000.
The share of net assets held by the Group at the date of disposal was 632,000.
A non-underlying gain of 1,745,000 was recognised on this disposal.
Summarised financial information for significant associates is aggregated below: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Share of associates balance sheet Current assets 1,606 836 Non-current assets 1,674 1,731 Current liabilities 1,195 718 Non-current liabilities 704 843 Share of net assets 1,381 1,006 Dominos Pizza Group plc 94 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued a Investment in associates continued 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Share of associates revenue and profit Revenue 12,118 6,566 Profit after tax for the year 419 170 b Investment in joint ventures The Group has two UK joint ventures, with Dominos Pizza West Country Limited West Country and DP Shayban Limited DP Shayban.
Both West Country and DP Shayban are accounted for as joint ventures as the Group has joint control through voting rights and share ownership as well as being party to a joint venture agreement, which ensures that strategic, financial and operational decisions relating to the joint venture activities require the unanimous consent of the two joint venture partners.
At 28 December 2014 At 29 December 2013 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Share of joint ventures balance sheets Current assets 2,020 775 2,795 2,044 410 2,454 Non-current assets 2,018 3,107 5,125 2,036 3,015 5,051 Current liabilities 1,784 256 2,040 2,064 25 2,089 Non-current liabilities 19 72 91 96 168 264 Share of net assets 2,235 3,554 5,789 1,920 3,232 5,152 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013 DP Shayban West Country Total DP Shayban West Country Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Share of joint ventures revenue and profit Revenue 14,705 9,466 24,171 5,761 4,078 9,839 Profit after tax for the year 316 312 628 173 299 472 The Group has also invested in an entity that is jointly controlled and therefore deemed to be a joint venture: HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH.
Due to the start-up nature of this entity, losses were incurred during the period that have exceeded the value of the Groups interest.
The Groups share of unrecognised losses for the period to 28 December 2014 was 126,817 2013: 32,000.
Inventories At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Raw materials 220 242 Finished goods and goods for sale 4,606 4,007 Total inventories at lower of cost or net realisable value 4,826 4,249 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 21.
Trade and other payables At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Trade payables 15,482 12,318 Other taxes and social security costs 3,922 3,144 Other payables 4,348 3,366 Accruals 28,319 21,374 52,071 40,202 Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities: o trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on seven to 30 days terms: and o other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of six months.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Financial liabilities At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Current Bank revolving facility 5 Current instalments due on bank loans 15,000 13,000 Current instalments due on other loans 1,005 864 Current instalments due on finance leases 44 96 16,054 13,960 Non-current Bank revolving facility 5,442 29,814 Non-current instalments due on other loans 1,273 3,439 Non-current instalments due on finance leases 16 38 6,731 33,291 Banking facilities Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates depending on the balance on deposit.
The interest rate applicable to the short-term deposits during the financial period was 0.25% 2013: 0.25%.
The fair value ofcash and cash equivalents is 33,473,000 2013: 31,597,000.
Bank revolving facility On 31 January 2014, the Group increased the existing revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank plc to a 45,000,000 facility being a 30,000,000 revolving credit facility and 15,000,000 term loan in order to repay the Employee Benefit Trust loan.
Interest charged on the termloan is 1.10% per annum above LIBOR and it matured on 31 January 2015.
Interest charged on the revolving credit facility is 1.35% per annum above LIBOR in addition to a 0.5% utilisation fee.
The facility expires on 10 August 2017.
Arrangement fees of 372,000 2013: 298,000 directly incurred in relation to the facility are included in the carrying value of the facility and are being amortised over the term of the facility: at 28December 2014, amortisation of 208,000 2013: 117,000 had been recognised against the carrying value of the facility.
The facility is secured by an unlimited cross-guarantee between the Company, Dominos Pizza UK and Ireland Limited, DPG Holdings Limited, DP Realty Limited, DP Pizza Limited and DP Group Developments Limited.
Bank loans The Group has entered into an agreement to obtain bank loans and mortgage facilities for its Employee Benefit Trust.
These are secured by a fixedand floating charge over the Groups assets and an unlimited guarantee provided by the Company.
At 28 December 2014 the balance due under these facilities was nil 2013: 13,000,000 all of which is in relation to the Employee Benefit Trust.
Interest at a rate of 0.5% above LIBOR was payable on this loan.
The loan facility had a term of seven years and matured on 31 January 2014.
The limit for this facility was 13,000,000.
On31January 2014, the Group repaid 13,000,000 facility by, as noted above, increasing the existing revolving credit facility to 45,000,000.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 23.
Financial liabilities continued Other loans Other loans include loans entered into to acquire assets which are then leased onto franchisees under finance lease agreements.
The Group has anasset finance facility of 5,000,000 2013: 5,000,000 with a term of five years.
The balance drawn down on this facility and held within other loans as at 28 December 2014 is 2,278,000 2013: 2,213,000.
The loans are repayable in equal instalments over a period of up to five years.
The loans are secured by a limited guarantee and indemnity by the Company and Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited limited to an annual sum of300,000 and a mortgage charge over the assets financed.
The interest rate on these loans is fixed at an average of 5.5% 2013: 5.8%.
Also included within other loans is a balance of nil 2013: 2,090,000 in relation to a loan due to the non-controlling interest in Dominos Germany bearing interest at a rate of 2.5% above the three-month EURIBOR.
Finance leases The Group has a number of finance leases for corporate store equipment and vehicles in Switzerland and Germany.
The average lease term is 3.9years.
During the period the average effective borrowing rate was 3.2% 2013: 4.8%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract rate.
All leases areon a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The Groups obligations under financeleases are secured by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
At 28 December 2014 theleased assets have a carrying value of 60,000 2013: 171,000.
No further disclosures have been included due to the immateriality of the lease liabilities to the Groups balance sheet.
Deferred and contingent consideration Deferred Contingent Total 000 000 000 At 30 December 2012 8,161 1,113 9,274 Adjustment to brought forward 324 324 Paid during the period 1,395 1,395 Unwinding of discount 236 236 Foreign exchange movements 16 16 At 29 December 2013 7,326 1,129 8,455 Adjustment to brought forward Paid during the period 1,208 132 1,340 Released during the period 947 947 Unwinding of discount 206 206 Foreign exchange movements 50 50 At 28 December 2014 6,324 6,324 At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Current 3,841 1,532 Non-current 2,483 6,923 Total 6,324 8,455 On 1 July 2009, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Dresdner Kleinwort Leasing March 2 Limited Dominos Leasing, a private company based in England which provides funding in the form of finance leases to a number of corporate clients.
As a company with an established leasing trade, Dominos Leasing owns the leased equipment and is entitled to an ongoing rental income from each lease for the remaining term of that lease and it is entitled to certain tax reliefs from its ownership of that equipment.
On acquisition, the tax reliefs available had a total value of 29,240,000 and a deferred consideration of 15,364,000 was payable, the amount and timing of which depends on the amount and timing of the benefits totheGroup arising from this tax relief.
The deferred consideration is payable until April 2016.
Finance costs reflect the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration.
Therefore, while the cash flow statement reflects lower tax paid asa result of this transaction, this is partly offset by investing cash flow for the consideration paid.
During the period the Group has utilised 8,532,000 2013: 10,405,000 of the capital allowances which were acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
The utilisation of these capital allowances reduces the value of the deferred tax asset which was recognised on acquisition: however, itresults in no overall impact on the tax charge for the period as there is an equal and opposite reduction in the Groups corporation tax liability.
On 24 September 2012, the Group acquired the trade and assets of a business in Switzerland on which contingent consideration was payable.
Thefair value of contingent consideration at the time of acquisition was estimated to be 1,087,000.
During the period, the amount payable crystallised at 134,000 and the unutilised provision for contingent consideration was released to the profit and loss.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessee For the stores in the franchisee system, the Group has entered into commercial leases, taking the head lease and then subletting the properties to the franchisees.
These leases have an average duration of between 10 and 25 years.
Under the terms of the franchise agreement the franchisee is granted an initial period of 10 years to operate a Dominos Pizza delivery store under the Dominos system.
Under the agreement, the franchisee also has the option to renew for a further 10 years at the end of the initial period provided at the time of the renewal the franchisee is not in default of any material provision of the franchise agreement.
In addition the Group has entered into commercial leases on motor vehicles and items of plant, machinery and equipment.
These leases have an average duration of between three and five years.
Only the property lease agreements contain an option for renewal, with such options being exercisable three months before the expiry of the lease term at rentals based on market prices at the time of exercise.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Not later than one year 19,696 18,500 After one year but not more than five years 72,060 66,744 After five years 140,770 128,859 232,526 214,103 Operating lease commitments where the Group is lessor Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Not later than one year 16,960 15,392 After one year but not more than five years 56,019 51,406 After five years 36,770 31,475 109,748 98,273 26.
Provisions Onerous lease Restructuring provisions provisions Total 000 000 000 At 29 December 2013 1,947 2,407 4,354 Arising during the period 921 142 1,063 Utilised during the period 475 1,275 1,750 Released during the period 433 116 549 Impact of discounting 81 209 290 Foreign exchange on translation 36 101 138 At 28 December 2014 2,005 1,266 3,270 At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Current 1,270 2,084 Non-current 2,000 2,270 3,270 4,354 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 26.
Provisions continued Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to the outstanding rent obligation for properties in the UK, ROI and Germany.
These properties include sublets to commercial tenants, properties for which a lease has been signed but no franchisee has been identified to operate the store such that the lease obligation has become onerous, along with stores for which the tenant is paying reduced rent and the Group expects to make a loss in relation tothelease.
The provision will be utilised over the remaining lease term on the properties identified which range between one and 24 years.
Restructuring provisions The restructuring provision arose upon acquisition of Domino's Switzerland and relates to outstanding rent obligations for seven stores which were being closed and relocated as well as other commitments arising from the restructuring plan such as redundancy and relocation costs.
In the year to29 December 2013, the transition of corporate stores to franchised stores in Germany began and, as part of the transition, costs were identified including a provision for an onerous contract other than leases which have been identified as a result of the transition and restructuring and redundancy costs.
The total restructuring provision will be utilised within three years.
Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups financial risk management objectives consist of identifying and monitoring those risks, which have an adverse impact on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities or on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group.
The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise bank loans, bank revolving facilities, other loans and finance leases.
The Group has various financial assets such as trade receivables and cash and short-term deposits, which arise directly from its operations.
The Group has not entered intoany derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps or financial foreign currency contracts.
It is, and has been throughout 2014 and 2013, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
The Groups main treasury risks relate to the availability of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policyof the Group is determined and monitored by the Board.
The Group monitors its cash resources through short, medium and long-term cash forecasting, against available facilities.
Surplus cash is pooled into an interest bearing account with the Groups bankers.
The Group monitors its overall level of financial gearing monthly, with short and medium-term forecasts showing levels of gearing within targets.
It is the Groups policy nottohave high financial leverage, comparing net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are foreign currency risk, credit risk, price risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Foreign currency risk The Group has invested in operations in ROI, Germany and Switzerland and also buys and sells goods and services in currencies other than sterling.
As a result, the value of the Groups non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected by movements in exchange rates, the euro in particular.
The Group seeks to mitigate the effect of its currency exposures by agreeing fixed euro rates with franchisees and suppliers wherever possible.
The Board does not consider there to be any significant unmitigated foreign currency risk in relation to the Groups profit before tax.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the sterling against euro exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups equity due to changes in the carrying value of euro-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency and sterling-denominated assets in subsidiaries with a euro functional currency : Increase Effect decrease on profit in sterling vs before tax euro rate % 000 2014 25 29 25 43 2013 25 9 25 15 Credit risk Customers who trade on credit terms and obtain finance leasing and loans from the Group are predominantly franchisees and it is considered that the franchisee selection process is sufficiently robust to ensure an appropriate credit verification procedure.
In addition, trade receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Since the Group trades only with franchisees that have been subject to the franchisee selection process and provide guarantees as required under the franchisee agreements, there is no requirement for collateral.
It is Group policy that cash deposits are only made with banks that have been approved by the Board and have a high credit rating in accordance with the Groups treasury policy to ensure that the Group is not exposed to unnecessary risk.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Liquidity risk The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation by its operations with cash collection targets set throughout the Group.
Allmajor investment decisions are considered by the Board as part of the project appraisal and approval process.
In this way the Group aims to maintain a good credit rating to facilitate fundraising.
Financial liabilities due within three months of the period end will be settled by the Group using cash and receipts from trade receivables outstanding at the period end.
As stated in note 23 on page 97, the Group settled its financial liability in respect of the term loan of 15,000,000 on 31 January 2015.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 28 December 2014 and 29 December 2013 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 28 December 2014 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan 15,138 15,138 Bank revolving facility 39 116 5,874 6,029 Other loans Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 271 747 1,426 2,444 Finance leases 6 19 34 60 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 47,121 47,121 Deferred consideration amortised cost 310 3,199 2,637 6,146 Contingent consideration at fair value through income statement 63,060 4,606 36,426 104,091 Less than 3 to 1 to On demand 3 months 12 months 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Period ended 29 December 2013 Floating rate borrowings Bank loan EBT 13,033 13,033 Bank revolving facility 214 641 33,206 34,061 Other loans 56 168 2,754 2,978 Fixed rate borrowings Other loans 240 721 1,437 2,398 Finance leases 24 72 38 134 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 37,058 37,058 Deferred consideration amortised cost 288 920 6,384 7,592 Contingent consideration at fair value through income statement 1,129 1,129 50,913 2,522 44,948 98,383 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 27.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk The Board has a policy of ensuring a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings based on the best available rates.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to benefit from a reduction in borrowing costs when market rates are declining.
Conversely, whilst floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk as costs are impacted by changes in market rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the 52-week period ended 28December 2014 would decrease increase by 56,000 2013: 56,000.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates onitsvariable rate borrowings.
There would be no impact on other comprehensive income.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it retains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made inthe objectives, policies or processes during the periods ended 28 December 2014 and 29 December 2013.
At the AGM in 2014, a special resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its Ordinary shares.
During 2014 up to and including 28December 2014 the Company purchased 380,000 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.5625p under this authority at a total cost of 2,220,395 with those Ordinary shares currently held in treasury.
This represents 0.2% of the Companys called up share capital as at 28 December 2014.
The Company engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows permit and there is no immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
The Group monitors the ratio of adjusted net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
TheGroupincludes within adjusted net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank revolving facilities, less cash and cash equivalents andexcludes, for this calculation, the Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan.
At At 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Bank loan 15,000 13,000 Other loans 2,278 2,213 Finance leases 60 134 Bank revolving facilities 5,447 29,814 Less: cash and cash equivalents 33,743 31,597 Adjusted net cash debt 10,958 13,564 Dominos Germany non-controlling interest loan 2,090 Net cash debt 10,958 15,654 Underlying EBITDA 61,275 53,714 Adjusted gearing ratio 0.2 0.3 For further commentary on cash flow, net debt and gearing see the Chief Executive Officers statement.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Financial instruments Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financialstatements: Carrying Carrying Fair Fair value value value value 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Financial assets Net investment in finance leases 2,184 2,636 2,058 2,452 Financial liabilities Bank revolving facilities 5,447 29,814 5,447 29,814 Bank loan EBT 15,000 13,000 15,000 13,000 Fixed rate borrowings 2,278 2,213 2,374 2,746 Finance lease liabilities 60 134 60 134 Floating rate borrowings 2,090 2,090 Contingent consideration 1,129 1,129 The fair value of the net investment in finance leases has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at the market interest rate.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at a market rate of interest.
Management have determined that the fair value of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of bank revolving facilities, bank loans, fixed rate borrowings, finance lease liabilities and floating rate borrowings are determined using a rate that reflects the entity's borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
The inputs use in these discounted cash flow calculations are at level 2 in the hierarchy.
In the period ended 29 December 2013, the fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated by applying a probability weighted average for a number of scenarios based on performance against budget.
This equated to a Level 3 classification under the IFRS 13 requirement to classify financial instruments at fair value by reference to the following three-level hierarchy of the source of inputs used to derive the fair value.
Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The significant unobservable inputs include long-term profitability of the Switzerland business.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 29.
Share capital and reserves continued Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital continued In addition the Company issued 880,000 shares on purchasing the remaining 25% shareholding of DP Cyco Ltd from its non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited.
Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys Ordinary shares of 1.5625p each.
Share premium The share premium reserve is the premium paid on the Companys 1.5625p Ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve includes the nominal value of shares bought back by the Company.
Capital reserve own shares This reserve relates to shares held by an independently managed EBT and shares held by the Company as 'treasury shares'.
The shares held by the EBT were purchased in order to satisfy potential awards under the Reversionary LTIP.
During the period the Company acquired 380,000 of its own shares of 1.5625p each for a total consideration of 2,237,000 2013: there were no share buybacks.
The shares are held as 'treasury shares'.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at later date.
Currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Other reserve In 2013, the other reserve related to the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of DP Cyco Ltd, being 880,000 Ordinary shares on the opening of the 35th Dominos store in Germany.
As noted above, the 25% shareholding of DP Cyco Ltd was purchased from our non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited.
Share-based payments The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 was 899,000 2013: 613,000.
This all arises on equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Long Term Senior Executive Incentive Plan Reversionary interests over assets held in the Dominos Pizza Group plc Employee Benefit Trust are approved and granted, at the discretion of the trustees, to senior executives.
The interests are capable of vesting within a five-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
During the period no further reversionary interests were granted 2013: nil and no further grants are envisaged under this scheme.
At 28 December 2014 reversionary interests represented by nil 2013: 2,287,920 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc have been granted.
Certain of the Groups historic share-based compensation arrangements dating from 2003 to 2008 necessarily involve a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of their tax treatment.
Until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, which may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances, it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the possible impact on the financial statements.
2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 LTIP At the 2012 AGM shareholders approved the adoption of new LTIP rules which allow for either the grant of market value options or performance shares.
Awards are approved and granted at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to senior executives and other employees.
Awards are capable of vesting within a three-year period should certain performance targets be achieved by the Group and all awards will be equity settled.
During the period 1,394,715 awards were granted 2013: nil.
At 28 December 2014, 2012 LTIP awards were represented by 2,009,525 2013: 1,021,684 shares in Dominos Pizza Group plc.
Further information on the Companys 2012 LTIP awards are given in the Directors remuneration report.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30.
Share-based payments continued Employee share options On 24 November 1999 participants in the Dominos Pizza Group Limited Unapproved Share Option Scheme which had been in place since 31March 1999 had the option of exchanging options over shares in Dominos Pizza Group Limited in return for equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Company under Dominos Pizza Share Option Unapproved Scheme.
On 23 March 2004, the Company established the Dominos Pizza Group plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme.
All employees are eligible for grants of options under these schemes, which are approved by the Board.
Prior to 2011, the options vested over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that the growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share during each of the three years following the date ofgrant exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 3%.
For 2011 and 2012 the options vest over a three-year period and are exercisable subject to the condition that real growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share, during each of the three years following the date of grant, exceeds 3%.
The options lapse after 10 years or in certain other circumstances connected with leaving the Company.
There are no cash settlement alternatives and all awards are equity settled.
No options were granted during the period ended 28 December 2014 2013: nil.
Sharesave scheme During 2009 the Group introduced a Sharesave scheme giving employees the option to acquire shares in the Company.
Employees have the option to save an amount per month up to a maximum of 500 and at the end of three years they have the option to purchase shares in the Company or to take their savings in cash.
The contractual life of the scheme is three years.
The weighted average fair value of each option granted in 2014 was 71.0p 2013: 142.51p.
Share schemes As at 28 December 2014, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at Exercisable at 29 December during during during 28 December 28 December Exercise 2013 the period the period the period 2014 2014 Scheme price Number Number Number Number Number Number Reversionary Interest Long Term 437.10p 2,287,920 1,832,917 455,003 Incentive Plan 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 0.00p to 1,021,684 1,394,715 406.873 2,009,525 540.50p Dominos Pizza 107.03p to 262,137 93,375 168,763 168,763 Unapproved Scheme 210.00p Dominos Pizza CSOP 205.50p to 536,079 154,839 88,022 293,218 55,716 Unapproved Scheme 482.40p Dominos Pizza CSOP 205.50p to 899,070 280,926 135,536 482,608 152,456 Approved Scheme 482.40p EMI Scheme 64.53p 9,600 9,600 Sharesave scheme 237.92p to 307,094 184,549 46,557 55,107 389,979 434.00p 5,323,585 1,579,264 2,418,214 1,140,541 3,344,093 376,935 Weighted average exercise price 410.20p 225.63p 419.06p 361.98p 333.07p 233.74p Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 30.
Share-based payments continued Share schemes continued As at 29 December 2013, the following share options were outstanding: Outstanding at Granted Exercised Forfeited Outstanding at Exercisable at 30 December during during during 29 December 29 December Exercise 2012 the period the period the period 2013 2013 Scheme price Number Number Number Number Number Number Reversionary Interest Long Term 327.00p to 4,311,774 2,023,854 2,287,920 Incentive Plan 437.10p 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan 431.60p 1,055,420 33,736 1,021,684 Dominos Pizza unapproved 107.03p to 418,247 156,110 262,137 262,137 Scheme 210.00p Dominos Pizza CSOP 205.50p to 2,674,650 138,571 2,000,000 536,079 116,277 unapproved Scheme 482.40p Dominos Pizza CSOP approved 205.50p to 1,365,910 457,799 9,041 899,070 273,738 Scheme 482.40p EMI Scheme 64.53p 40,837 31,237 9,600 9,600 Sharesave scheme 237.92p to 216,161 181,164 40,883 49,348 307,094 76 426.00p 10,083,000 181,164 2,848,454 2,092,125 5,323,585 661,829 Weighted average exercise price 387.10p 366.60p 338.64p 392.55p 410.2p 237.78p The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 28 December 2014 was 6.7 years 2013: 4.1 years.
The weighted average share price for options exercised during 2014 was 419.06p 2013: 338.64p.
The fair value of both options and reversionary interests granted is estimated at the date of granting using a Hoadley model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which they were granted.
TSRs are generated for the Company and the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance period.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the period ended 28 December 2014: 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 Weighted average fair value 276.8p Weighted average share price 535.8p Weighted average exercise price 198.1p Expected dividend yield 0.00%3.05% Risk free rates 0.58%1.09% Expected volatility 24.1%26.2% Dominos Pizza Group plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
Capital commitments At 28 December 2014, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounted to nil 2013: nil for the Group.
Contingent liabilities Pursuant to the relevant regulation of the European Communities Companies: Group Accounts Regulations, 1992 the Company has guaranteed theliabilities of the Irish subsidiary, DP Pizza Limited, and as a result the Irish company has been exempted from the filing provisions section 7, Companies Amendment Act 1986 of the Republic of Ireland.
The Group has, in previous periods, entered into loans with franchisees for the sole purpose of new store fit outs.
In 2013, the Group assisted withthe refinancing of some of these loans with three major banks Barclays Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc and National Westminster Bank plc.
TheCompany has guaranteed the loans refinanced with Barclays Bank plc in the event of default by the franchisee.
The total amount of loans refinanced with Barclays Bank plc was 663,000.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2014 34.
Related party transactions The financial statements include the financial statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc and the subsidiary undertakings listed below.
Country of Proportion of voting Name of company incorporation rights and shares held Nature of business Directly held subsidiary undertakings DPG Holdings Limited England 100% Ordinary Investment DP Realty Limited England 100% Ordinary Property management DP Group Developments Limited England 100% Ordinary Property development DP Capital Limited England 100% Ordinary Leasing of store equipment Dominos Pizza Isle of Man Limited Isle of Man 100% Ordinary Property management DP Cyco Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Germany DP Cyco Switzerland Limited Cyprus 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business in Switzerland Indirectly held subsidiary undertakings Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited England 100% Ordinary Operation and management of franchise business and Supply Chain Centre DP Newcastle Limited England 100% Ordinary Dormant DP Pizza Limited Republic of Ireland 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre Dominos Leasing Limited England 100% Ordinary Leasing Dominos Pizza Germany Limited England 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores in Germany Dominos Pizza Germany GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Investment Dominos Pizza GmbH Switzerland 100% Ordinary Operation of Supply Chain Centre and pizza delivery stores in Switzerland Deutsche Dominoid GmbH Germany 100% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Associate undertakings Full House Restaurants Limited England 41% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores Joint venture undertakings Dominos Pizza West Country Limited England 50% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores DP Shayban Limited England 50% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores HJS Pizza Deutschland GmbH Germany 40% Ordinary Management of pizza delivery stores The Group took operational control of Deutsche Dominoid GmbH in the second half of 2013 and acquired the 50% of the remaining shareholding on 1 July 2014.
During the period the Group entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with related parties.
For details of loan balances due from associates please refer to note 19.
Transactions entered into, and trading balances outstanding at 28 December 2013: 29 December with related parties, are as follows: Amounts Sales to owed by related related party party 000 000 Related party Associates and joint ventures 2014 19,157 1,445 2013 16,707 689 Dominos Pizza Group plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.
Related party transactions continued Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales and purchases between related parties are made at normal market prices.
Outstanding balances with entities are unsecured and interest free andcash settlement is expected within seven days of invoice.
The Group has not provided for or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the financial period ended 28 December 2014, the Group has made a provision of 754,000 for doubtful debts relating toamounts owed by related parties 2013: 1,460,000.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 28 December 29 December 2014 2013 000 000 Short-term employee benefits 4,447 3,920 Post-employment benefits 257 324 Share-based payment 493 386 5,878 4,630 The table above includes the remuneration costs of the Directors of the Company and the Directors of Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland Limited, Dominos Pizza Germany Limited and Dominos Pizza GmbH.
Included in short-term employee benefits above are termination payments totalling 194,000 2013: nil.
Other related parties During the period, the Group paid nil 2013: 21,333 to Saracens rugby club, in the normal course of business as part of its ongoing marketing strategy.
Nigel Wray has an interest in this entity, being non-executive chairman of Saracens Limited.
The transaction was paid at arms length values under normal business terms.
Acquisition of additional interest in DP Cyco Limited On 26 February 2014, the Group acquired an additional 25.0% interest in the voting shares of DP Cyco Limited from our non-controlling interest partner, Briskas Limited, increasing the Groups ownership interest to 100.0%.
Consideration of in the form of an option over 3,000,000 shares in Dominos at an amount of 577.7 pence per share, equal to 25 pence above the average of the market value for a Dominos Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the five business days prior to the date of the Agreement was provided to Briskas Limited.
In addition, the contingently issuable shares 880,000 which formed part of the original acquisition arrangement, were issued at completion.
The carrying value of the net liabilities of DP Cyco Limited at the acquisition date was 1,967,403 2,388,862, and the carrying value of the additional interest acquired was 491,851 597,216.
The difference of 1,095,647 between the consideration and the carrying value of the interest acquired has been recognised in retained earnings within equity.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 109
