105 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1General information Simplifying the numbers These notes provide additional detail on the disclosures within our annual report and accounts.
Throughout the notes we have included explanations of the information presented.
In general, the notes to the financial statements include additional information required by law, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or other regulations to facilitate a better, more detailed understanding of the primary financial statements set out on pages 100 to 104.
Our business model Where relevant to do so, we have set out key elements of our business model and strategy see pages 6 to 15 and how pursuit of this has impacted our financial results.
Drax Group plc the Company is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group predominantly operate in the electricity generation and supply industry within the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office and principal establishment is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH, United Kingdom.
The principal operating companies of the Group are disclosed in note 4 to the Companys separate financial statements, which follow these consolidated financial statements.
The principal activities of the Group are the sourcing of fuel from both domestic and international sources, the generation and sale of electricity into the wholesale market at Drax Power Station, and the sale of retail electricity to business consumers by Haven Power Limited Haven Power.
2Basis of preparation This section describes the accounting standards we have followed in preparing these financial statements and the interpretation of accounting standards into accounting policies which are relevant to our Group.
Wherever possible, we have explained how our accounting policies work in practice within the relevant note to the consolidated financial statements, andhave not sought to repeat that information here.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as explained in Operational and financial performance onpage 44, and on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial results of the Company and of all entities controlled by the Company, its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
The company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries consolidated within these financial statements.
The impact of all intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies Those accounting policies that are material to the understanding of our financial statements have been incorporated within therelevant note or are set out below: Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and excluding transactions with or between group companies.
Revenues from the sale of electricity are recorded based upon output delivered at rates specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable.
Revenues from sales of ROCs and LECs are recorded at the invoiced value, net of VAT.
Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been substantially transferred to a third party, that being when the ROC or LEC is transferred to the account of that third party.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation continued Where goods or services are exchanged for goods or services of similar nature and value, the exchange is not treated as giving rise to revenue.
Where goods or services are exchanged for goods or services of a dissimilar nature, the exchange is treated as giving rise to revenue.
The revenue is measured at the fair value of goods or services received, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents received or paid.
If the fair value of the goods or services received cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services given up, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents received or paid.
Revenue from the sale of electricity directly to customers through our retail business, Haven Power is recorded after deduction of agreed discounts, VAT and Climate Change Levy.
Revenue is recognised on the supply of electricity when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established or can be determined and the receivables are expected to be recovered at the point of sale.
Energy supplied, but not yet measured or billed, is calculated based on consumption statistics and selling price estimates.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction and from the translation at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional currency other than sterling are translated to sterling using published exchange rates at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of such operations are translated to sterling using theexchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the retranslation of these operations are recognised in reserves.
Community Energy Saving Programme CESP As described in Operating and financial performance on page 39, during the year the Group reached settlement with Ofgem regarding its non-compliance with CESP.
As settlement has been agreed at the balance sheet date, full provision has been made in the financial statements for the anticipated economic flows.
Trade and other payables include an accrual for the 25 million cash settlement due to Ofgem and National Energy Action.
Trade and other receivables include an income accrual for the 5 million settlement reached with a thirdparty for related breach of contract.
Recognising the materiality of the settlement to the Group in both quantitative and qualitative terms, the net settlement has been presented separately on the face of the income statement.
The settlement with Ofgem incorporates 3 million of additional remedies that will be delivered by a third party as further consumer redress measures.
This represents the settlement of an obligation with services and has no financial impact on the Group.
Accordingly no entries have been made in the financial statements in respect of this element of the transaction.
As a transaction that is one-off in nature and does not reflect the ongoing operational performance of the Group, the impact of the CESP settlement has been excluded from our non-statutory financial performance measures, including EBITDA and underlying profit.
Non-statutory measures of financial performance We present two non-statutory measures on the face of the income statement.
Our non-statutory measures exclude certain items, including any transactions considered to be one-off in nature, to provide a measure of the underlying trading and operational performance of the Group.
EBITDA is the primary measure we use to assess our financial performance.
EBITDA is defined as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts.
In 2014, it excludes the one-off settlement of CESP described above.
Underlying measures, including underlying profit before and after tax and underlying earnings per share EPS exclude the impact of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts and, in 2014, the one-off settlement of CESP.
Underlying profit after tax and EPS exclude the post-tax effect of these items.
Under our current distribution policy, dividends are calculated based upon 50% of underlying profit after tax.
A reconciliation from profit for the year attributable to equity holders to underlying profit after tax is provided in note 9.
10 7 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 2.
Basis of preparation continued Adoption of new and revised accounting standards In 2014, a number of new, amended or revised standards and interpretations became effective.
The Group adopted the following standards from 1 January 2014: IAS 32 amended Offsetting financial assets and liabilities.
IFRS 10 amended Consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 12 amended Disclosure of interests in other entities.
IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements.
IAS 36 amended Impairment of Assets.
IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: Recognition & Measurement.
The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The disclosures required by IFRS 12 in respect of the Groups interest in Capture Power Limited have been included at note 12.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and some of which were pending endorsement bythe EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
IAS 19 amended Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015.
Annual improvements to 2010-2012 Cycle all amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015.
Annual improvements to 2011-2013 Cycle all amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
Annual improvements to 2012-2014 Cycle all amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2016.
IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 16 amended Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 amended Intangible Assets applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 27 amended Separate Financial Statements applicable to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 amended Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016.
The Group is in the process of assessing the full impact of adopting IFRS 9.
The Group currently intends to adopt the standard in the earliest permitted accounting period, subject to endorsement by the EU.
Adoption of the other standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 108 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect thevalues of assets and liabilities and the amounts of income and expenditure recorded during the period.
These estimates arebased on our reasonable knowledge of the amount, event or actions that require judgement, but the actual amount may ultimately differ from the initial or subsequent estimates.
Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The most important of these judgements those that carry the most significant risk of an outcome that differs from the amount recognised in the financial statements are as follows: Property, plant and equipment Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account prices prevailing at each balance sheet date.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are also reviewed for impairment where there has been a trigger event that is, an event which may have resulted in impairment by assessing the present value of estimated future cash flows and net realisable value compared with net book value.
The calculation of estimated future cash flows and residual values is based on managements reasonable estimates of future prices, output and costs, and is therefore subjective.
Estimated useful lives are based on past experience, future replacement cycles and other available evidence: however an inherent degree of judgement remains.
Derivatives Derivative financial instruments are stated in the balance sheet at their fair value.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded for each period in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
The fair values of derivative instruments for commodities and foreign exchange rates are determined using forward price curves.
Forward price curves represent the Groups estimates of the prices at which a buyer or seller could contract today for delivery or settlement of a commodity or foreign exchange payment or receipt, at future dates.
The Group generally bases forward price curves upon readily obtainable market price quotations, as the Groups commodity and forward foreign exchange contracts do not generally extend beyond the actively traded portion of these curves.
However, the forward price curves used are only an estimate of how future prices will move and are, therefore, subjective.
Where derivative financial instruments include options these are valued using an option pricing model.
Inputs to the model include market commodity prices, forward price curves, the term of the option, discount rate and assumptions around volatility based on historical movements.
The inputs include assumptions around future transactions and market movements, as well as credit risk and are, therefore, subjective.
ROCs and LECs ROCs and LECs are stated within the balance sheet at fair value on the date of recognition and subsequently written down to net realisable value where appropriate.
Inherent in the calculation of this fair value and in the estimate of net realisable value is an assumption regarding future sales prices in the market.
Historic experience indicates that the assumptions used in the valuation are reasonable: however actual sales prices may differ.
Other accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Pensions The Group operates an approved defined benefit scheme.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method and actuarial valuations of the plan assets and liabilities are carried out as at the balance sheet date.
Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates, inflation rates, salary and pension increases, andmortality rates.
These actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually and modified as appropriate.
The Group believes that the assumptions utilised in recording obligations under the scheme are reasonable based on prior experience, market conditions andthe advice of scheme actuaries.
However, actual results may differ from such assumptions.
Taxation In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes.
The Group believes that these assumptions are reasonable based on prior experience and consultation with advisers.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, taking into account the nature of the losses, and the certainty of the relevant offsetting income streams.
Impairment The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy detailed in note 10.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates.
Inventories Fuel inventories are valued on a weighted average cost basis according to invoiced purchase prices, limited to net realisable value where appropriate.
The quantum of fuel on-site is calculated using a number of complementary methodologies with the most prudent adoption for financial accounting purposes.
Whilst value is largely based on observable costs, an element of judgement remains in determining the requirement, if any, for a provision against stock values based on available data such as market price trends and independent stock surveys and also in determining appropriate values in respect of fuel received but not invoiced at the balance sheet date.
109 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 4 Segmental reporting We view our operational business as two distinct areas or segments the generation of electricity at Drax Power Station Generation and the supply of power to business customers Retail.
The respective financial performance of these segments is shown here and described in far greater detail in Operational and financial performance on pages 32 to37.
Thecosts incurred by our US business, which is still in the development phase, during the current and previous year havebeen included in the Generation segment.
The Generation business segment spans all three core activities of the Group in that it incorporates sourcing of coal, biomass and other fuels, generation and supply through its sales to the wholesale electricity market.
The Retail business segment contributes to the supply activities of the Group, through sales direct to the small and medium enterprise and industrial and commercial markets.
Grow our retail business Haven Power, our retail business, has demonstrated strong sales volume growth in the current and previous year.
Information reported to the Board and for the purposes of assessing performance and making investment decisions is organised into two operating segments.
The measure of profit or loss for each reportable segment, presented to the Board on a regular basis, is EBITDA.
Segment revenues and results The following is an analysis of the Groups results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2014: Year ended 31 December 2014 Generation Retail Eliminations Consolidated m m m m Revenue External sales 1,714.6 1,090.4 2,805.0 Inter-segment sales 735.2 735.2 Total revenue 2,449.8 1,090.4 735.2 2,805.0 Result Segment EBITDA 234.9 5.5 229.4 Central costs CESP settlement 20.0 Depreciation and amortisation 80.7 Unrealised gains on derivative contracts 65.8 Operating profit 194.5 Net finance costs 28.6 Profit before tax 165.9 Inter-segment sales represent the sale of power, ROCs and LECs from the Generation business to the Retail business.
All inter-segment sales are entered into on arms length terms.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 110 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental reporting continued The following is an analysis of the Groups results by reporting segment for the year ended 31 December 2013: Year ended 31 December 2013 Generation Retail Eliminations Consolidated m m m m Revenue External sales 1,311.5 750.6 2,062.1 Inter-segment sales 468.4 468.4 Total revenue 1,779.9 750.6 468.4 2,062.1 Result Segment EBITDA 235.5 5.5 230.0 Central costs Depreciation and amortisation 64.8 Unrealised losses on derivative contracts 110.2 Operating profit 55.0 Net finance costs 23.2 Profit before tax 31.8 Assets and working capital are monitored on a Group basis, with no separate disclosure of asset by segment made in the management accounts, and accordingly no separate asset disclosure is made here.
However, spend on key capital projects is monitored.
Total spend on the biomass transformation project during 2014 was 125 million 2013: 228 million, of which 85 million 2013: 117 million relates to construction of assets within our US business.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies, which are described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The revenue and results of both reporting segments presented are subject to seasonality as detailed in Operational and financial performance, page 44.
Major customers Total revenue for the year ended 31 December 2014 includes amounts of 320.6million and 288.7 million 2013: 222.3 million derived from two customers 2013: single customer, each representing 10% or more of the Groups revenue for the year.
These revenues arose in the generation segment.
5 Operating expenses This note sets out the material components of the Operating and administrative expenses line on our consolidated income statement, page 100. including a detailed breakdown of the fees we paid to our auditor, Deloitte LLP, in respect of services they have provided to us during the year.
Maximising the value of the Group We remain focused on achieving strong operational cost performance and will continue to carefully control our underlying cost base.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m The following charges have been included in arriving at operating profit: Staff costs note 32 94.5 93.3 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 47.1 59.0 Other operating and administrative expenses 78.8 62.8 Total other operating and administrative expenses 220.4 215.1 111 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 5.
Operating expenses continued Auditors remuneration Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 000 000 Audit fees: Fees payable for the audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements 338 293 Fees payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 60 53 398 346 Other fees: Pursuant to legislation interim review 62 62 Other services 52 8 Total audit related fees 512 416 Taxation services 7 5 Total non-audit fees 7 5 Total auditors remuneration 519 421 6 Net finance costs Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing our debt structure such as interest payable on our bank loans as well as foreign exchange gains and losses, the unwinding of discounting on our provision for reinstatement and net interest charged on the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
These are offset by interest income that we generate through efficient use of short-term cash surpluses for example through investment in money market funds.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Interest payable and similar charges: Interest payable on bank borrowings 16.8 13.5 Foreign exchange losses 5.5 4.0 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 23 1.1 0.9 Amortisation of deferred finance costs 3.0 2.9 Net finance cost in respect of defined benefit scheme note 33 1.5 1.7 Other financing charges 2.0 1.8 Total interest payable and similar charges 29.9 24.8 Interest receivable: Interest income on bank deposits 1.3 1.6 Total interest receivable 1.3 1.6 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Taxation The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the amount payable on this years taxable profits which are adjusted for items upon which we are not required to pay tax, or in some cases for items upon which we are required to pay additional tax in respect of tax-disallowed expenditure.
Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules.
The tax charge credit reflects the estimated effective tax rate on profit before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the movement in the deferred tax balance in the year, so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement.
Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax payable or recoverable on the difference between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that taxable profit will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
In light of the complex nature of the CESP settlement, there is currently uncertainty as to the likely level of any tax deduction available for the net settlement cost, on this basis no tax relief has been recognised in respect of this matter in these financial statements.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Tax charge credit comprises: Current tax 5.9 5.5 Deferred tax Before impact of corporation tax rate change 31.3 2.8 Impact of corporation tax rate change 22.3 Tax charge credit 37.2 19.6 Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Tax on items charged credited to other comprehensive income: Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme note 24 0.7 0.6 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges note 24 20.1 11.2 20.8 11.8 UK corporation tax is calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 165.9 31.8 Profit before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 35.7 7.4 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.6 7.3 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.4 1.2 Other 2.3 1.4 Impact of change to corporation tax rate 22.3 Total tax charge credit 37.2 19.6 113 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 8 Dividends Dividends are amounts we return to our shareholders and are paid as an amount per ordinary share held.
Our current dividend policy is to return 50% of underlying earnings see note 9 to our shareholders each year.
The remaining 50% is retained for reinvestment in the future growth of the business.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year based on the number of shares in issue at the record date : Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 4.7 pence per share paid on 10 October 2014 2013: 8.7 pence per share paid on 11 October 2013 19.0 35.0 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 8.9 pence per share paid on 14 May 2014 2013:10.9 pence per share paid on 17 May 2013 36.0 43.8 55.0 78.8 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 7.2 pence per share equivalent to approximately 29.0 million payable on or before 15 May 2015.
The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2014.
9 Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS represents the amount of our earnings post-tax profits that are attributable to each ordinary share we have in issue.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing our earnings by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that were in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all outstanding share options such as those to be issued under our employee share schemes see note 26, that are expected to vest on their future maturity dates, were exercised and treated as ordinary shares as at the balance sheet date.
In addition to EPS, we calculate underlying EPS as it reflects the figures upon which our annual dividends are calculated note8.
Underlying EPS removes the post-tax effect of fair value movements on derivative contracts and the CESP settlement, incurred in 2014, from earnings.
Multiplying underlying basic EPS by 50% will give the total dividends per share for the period.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Earnings: Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings 128.7 51.4 Unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts 65.8 110.2 CESP settlement 20.0 Tax impact of the above 13.1 19.3 Underlying earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company 96.0 142.3 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Earnings per share continued Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share millions 404.4 402.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans 2.9 4.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share millions 407.3 406.9 Earnings per share basic pence 32 13 Earnings per share diluted pence 32 13 Underlying earnings per share basic pence 24 35 Underlying earnings per share diluted pence 24 35 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business, when the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the assets acquired.
Allof our goodwill relates to the acquisition of Haven Power, our retail business, in 2009.
Other intangibles include any amounts paid in respect of carbon emission allowances for future years.
Goodwill Carbon Total m m m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2013 10.7 39.0 49.7 Utilisation 39.0 39.0 Additions at cost 26.5 26.5 At 1 January 2014 10.7 26.5 37.2 Utilisation 26.5 26.5 Additions at cost At 31 December 2014 10.7 10.7 Goodwill Goodwill arising on the Haven Power acquisition has been allocated to the Haven Power cash-generating unit.
At 31 December 2014, the fair value of goodwill was significantly in excess of its book value reflecting Haven Powers cash generative profile.
Sensitivity analysis performed over the goodwill balance indicates the level of change required is beyond what would be considered reasonably possible.
Accordingly this sensitivity analysis has not been disclosed.
The recoverable amount of Haven Power is calculated annually, based on a value in use calculation.
The key assumptions in this calculation relate to the discount rate and future cash flows.
Management estimates the discount rate using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the business.
The first five years of cash flows are based upon the five year Business Plan approved by the Board.
Future cash flows have been taken in perpetuity, assuming no growth rate is applied to the final year of the Business Plan.
The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows from Haven Power is 8% reflecting a reasonable assumption of the applicable cost of capital.
Carbon assets Carbon assets arise upon the purchase of CO emissions allowances in excess of the amount allocated and required for the 2 current financial year and are recognised at cost, net of any impairment.
The charge to the income statement, within fuel costs, reflects the cost of emissions allowances required to satisfy the obligation for the current year and takes into account generation and market purchases allocated to the current financial year, and to the extent further purchases are required, the market price at the balance sheet date.
All carbon assets brought forward or purchased during 2014 were utilised by the end of the year.
11 5 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 11 Property, plant and equipment This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by us that we use in our business.
The cost of an asset is what we paid to purchase or construct the asset.
Depreciation is calculated by taking that cost, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset.
An assets net book value is its cost less any depreciation including impairment, if required charged to date.
We construct many of our assets under long-term projects.
Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are ready for us to use in the way intended.
Delivering our biomass strategy Additions in 2014 include a further 125 million on our biomass transformation project, which remains on schedule and budget.
Our two pellet plants, in Mississippi and Louisiana, both entered a commissioning phase and our port facility at Baton Rouge is now pellet ready.
At Drax Power Station, two converted biomass units are now running fully on the bespoke receipt, storage and distribution systems that entered service at the end of 2013.
Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price after deducting trade discounts and rebates, any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, and the estimate of the present value of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value.
Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly over the estimated useful lives of the assets from the date of acquisition where relevant limited to the expected decommissioning date of the power station.
The estimated useful lives, beginning in 2004 when they were reset, are currently: Years Main generating plant and freehold buildings Up to 35 Other plant and machinery 3-25 Decommissioning asset 35 Plant spare parts 35 Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account commercial and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, and any provision for impairment.
Residual values are based on prices prevailing at each balance sheet date.
Costs relating to major inspections, overhauls and upgrades to the power station are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, if the recognition criteria are met: namely, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment At each balance sheet date the Group reviews its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that these assets may have suffered an impairment loss.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future cash flows of the asset value in use or sales value net of expenses.
If an asset is impaired, a provision is made to reduce its carrying amount to the estimated recoverable amount.
The discount rate applied to future cash flows for this purpose is a pre-tax rate based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital and reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the business.
Plant and equipment includes assets held under finance lease agreements with a carrying value at 31 December 2014 of 1.3million 2013: 1.0 million.
Additions during the year include 3.4 million 2013: 1.9 million of capitalised borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction ofspecific assets.
117 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 12 Investments in joint ventures Capture Power Limited CPL is the company responsible for the development, implementation and operation of the proposed White Rose Carbon Capture and Storage CCS project.
The Group holds a 33% investment in CPL.
This note explains how our investment in CPL is accounted for and how the financial position and performance of CPL affects that of the Group.
CPL is currently conducting a Front End Engineering and Design study which is expected to conclude around the end of 2015.
Drax has committed 4 million in funding to support this process, 3 million of which was incurred and recognised in operating expenditure within 2014.
Committed to sustainability CPL represents an integral part of our commitment towards a low carbon economy.
Place of incorporation and Interest held by the Group Name of Joint Venture Principal Activity principal place of business as at 31 December 2014 2013 Carbon capture and Capture Power Limited storage development England & Wales 33% 33% Our investment in Capture Power Limited of 1 2013: 1 is accounted for using the equity method in these consolidated financial statements as the Group exerts significant influence by virtue of its ownership interest.
Under the equity method, the groups initial investment is recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the investee.
Where the Groups share of losses exceeds the Groups interest, recognition of losses is discounted with further losses only recognised to the extent that the Group has incurred a legal or constructive obligation or made payments on behalf of the investee.
Based upon relevant management information, prepared in accordance with IFRS, as at 31 December 2014, Capture Power Limited held net liabilities of 7.4 million 2013: nil and incurred a loss for the year there-ended of 7.4 million 2013: nil reflecting the commencement of operations early in 2014 and the developmental activities undertaken in the year.
The Groups share of losses for the year was therefore 2.5 million 2013: nil.
Accordingly, the Groups net investment in Capture Power Limited is fully written down with a carrying value in these financial statements of nil, and therefore there is no entry in the Balance Sheet.
The unrecognised portion of the Groups share of losses, both for the year and cumulatively, is 2.5 million.
The Group received no dividends from Capture Power Limited during the year.
13 Inventories We hold stocks of fuels and other consumables that we use in the process of generating electricity.
This note shows the cost of coal, biomass, other fuels and plant consumables that we held at the end of the year, including items at Drax Power Station, and those owned by us but stored in off-site locations.
Our fuel stocks are valued at the lower of the weighted average cost to purchase and net realisable value.
The cost of fuel stocks includes the purchase price, import duties and other taxes including amounts levied on coal under the UK carbon price support mechanism and transport handling costs.
Delivering our biomass strategy The increasing cost of carbon, including the carbon price support mechanism, added 56 million to our fuel costs in 2014.
The relative economics of coal and biomass generation going forward underpins our transformation strategy, as biomass margins are more favourable than coal margins.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Coal 144.6 141.2 Biomass 81.0 40.9 Other fuels and consumables 16.8 14.4 242.4 196.5 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year ended 31 December 2014 was 1,224.8 million 2013: 945.8 million.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 118 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 ROC and LEC assets We earn ROC and LEC assets, which are accredited by the Office for Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem, as a result of burning renewable biomass to generate electricity.
This note sets out the value of such assets we have earned but not yet sold.
Delivering our biomass strategy and growing our retail business As we generate more of our electricity by burning renewable biomass, the volume and therefore the total value of ROC and LEC assets we generate will increase.
As Haven Power grows, it provides us with a credit-efficient and timely route to market for these ROCs and LECs.
ROCs and LECs are recognised as current assets in the period they are generated and initially measured at fair value based on anticipated sales prices.
At each reporting date the Group reviews the fair value of ROC and LEC assets generated but not sold against updated anticipated sales prices.
Any impairments required are recognised in the income statement in the period incurred.
15 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables represents amounts owed to us by our customers for goods or services we have provided but not yet been paid for.
The note includes accrued income, which is income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of power delivered that will be invoiced the following month, and prepayments, which are amounts paid by the Group for which we are yet to receive the relevant goods or service in return e. g. insurance premiums we have paid for that will be utilised within the year.
Trade and other receivables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established subsequently where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according tothe original terms of the receivable.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 163.4 118.2 Accrued income 134.0 102.3 Prepayments and other receivables 71.3 25.7 368.7 246.2 Trade receivables principally represent sales of electricity to a number of counterparties within both our generation and retail businesses.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had amounts receivable from four 2013: five significant counterparties within the generation business, representing 68% 2013: 69% of trade receivables, all of which paid within 15 days of receipt of invoice in line with agreed terms.
11 9 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15.
Trade and other receivables continued Of total trade receivables at 31 December 2014, 34 million 2013: 18 million relates to retail power sales.
The risk profile of retail debt is different to that of the generation business with a larger volume of counterparties, and hence lower concentration of credit risk, of varying size with different payment terms.
All past-due receivables are assessed against the Groups credit risk policies for indicators of impairment and provisions made where appropriate.
The value of retail debts that are past-due and not provided against, in accordance with this assessment are not material.
Accordingly management does not consider there to be any requirement for further provisions in excess of the normal provision for doubtful debts of 6.8 million 2013: 5.6 million.
This provision, which relates entirely to retail receivables, has been determined with reference to past default experiences in line with our policies.
Credit and counterparty risk are both discussed in further detail in note 22.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is laid out in the following table: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 5.6 4.7 Receivables written off 0.9 1.3 Provision for receivables impairment 2.1 2.2 At 31 December 6.8 5.6 16 Short-term investments Short-term investments represent cash held on deposit with financial institutions with a maturity of greater than three months at inception.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Short-term investments 40.1 20.0 17 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other bank accounts that are accessible on demand.
It is our policy to invest available cash on hand in short-term, low risk bank or building society deposits.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 180.9 267.3 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 120 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables represent amounts we owe to our suppliers for goods and services provided, tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business.
We make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of our activities in the current year e. g. fuel we have received but for which we have not yet been invoiced.
Trade and other payables, given their short tenor, are measured at cost.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade payables 49.1 17.1 Accruals 370.1 255.9 Other payables 49.1 92.5 468.3 365.5 Accruals include amounts in respect of fuel received and not yet invoiced of 124.3 million 2013: 74.4 million.
As described in note 2, accruals also reflect 25 million in respect of the Groups obligations under the settlement of CESP agreed with Ofgem in November 2014.
The Group recognises a liability in respect of its unsettled obligations to deliver emissions allowances under the EU ETS.
Accruals at 31 December 2014 include 12.2 million 2013: 9.2 million with respect to the Groups estimated net liability to deliver CO emissions allowances.
Allowances are purchased in the market and are recorded at cost.
2 19 Borrowings Borrowings are chiefly comprised of bank loans with fixed maturity repayment profiles between 2016 and 2025.
Maximising the value of the Group In April 2013, we agreed a new 75 million amortising term loan facility with Friends Life, underpinned by a guarantee from HM Treasury under the Infrastructure UK Guarantee Scheme.
This replaced 50 million of the 100 million facility with the UK Green Investment Bank agreed in 2012.
In May 2014, we agreed a new private placement for 100 million with various funds managed by M&G investments.
The new loan facilities, which were fully drawn at the year end, enhance the financing structure executed in previous years byproviding additional liquidity and a smoother profile of debt maturities.
The Group measures all debt instruments, whether financial assets or financial liabilities, initially at the fair value, which equates tothe principal value, of the consideration paid or received.
Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured atamortised cost using the effective interest method.
Transaction costs any such costs incremental and directly attributable tothe issue of the financial instrument are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are, amortised through the income statement over the life of the instrument.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs.
121 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19.
Borrowings continued Analysis of borrowings Borrowings at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 consisted principally of amounts drawn down against bank loans.
As at 31 December 2014 Borrowings before Deferred Net deferred finance costs finance costs borrowings m m m Term loans 326.
1 7.1 319.0 Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.6 Total borrowings 326.7 7.1 319.6 Less current portion 0.6 0.6 Non-current borrowings 326.1 7.1 319.0 As at 31 December 2013 Borrowings before Deferred Net deferred finance costs finance costs borrowings m m m Term loans 225.0 9.2 215.8 Finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3 Total borrowings 225.3 9.2 216.1 Less current portion 0.2 0.2 Non-current borrowings 225.1 9.2 215.9 20 Derivative financial instruments We enter into forward contracts for the purchase and sale of physical commodities principally power, coal, sustainable biomass and CO emissions allowances to secure market level dark green and bark spreads on future electricity sales, and also 2 financial contracts principally currency exchange contracts and financial coal and oil derivatives to fix sterling cash flows.
We hold these contracts for risk management purposes, to manage key risks facing the business including commodity price risk, and foreign currency risk see note 22.
The accounting rules for derivative contracts are complex.
At the balance sheet date all contracts subject to certain exemptions described below must be measured at fair value, which is in essence the difference between the price we have secured in the contract, and the price we could achieve in the market at that point in time.
Changes in fair value are recognised either within the income statement or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the contract in question qualifies as an effective hedge under IFRS see note 28.
Managing our principal risks and uncertainties A successful commercial hedging strategy is critical to our business model.
Our policy is to lock down exposures to commodity price movements and changes in foreign exchange rates using derivative contracts such as those described above.
This strategy aims to fide-risk the business, providing security and certainty over cash flows into the future.
Accounting policy Where possible, the Group has taken advantage of the own use exemption which allows qualifying contracts to be excluded from fair value mark-to-market accounting.
This applies to certain contracts for physical commodities entered into and held for our own purchase, sale or usage requirements, including forward contracts for the purchase of biomass, and coal from domestic sources.
Contracts which do not qualify for the own use exemption principally power, financial coal, CO emissions allowances and 2 forward foreign currency exchange contracts are accounted for as derivatives and recorded in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected through the hedge reserve note 28 to the extent that the contracts are designated as effective hedges in accordance with IAS 39, or the income statement where the hedge accounting requirements are not met.
Derivative financial instruments with a maturity date within 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as current assets or liabilities.
Instruments with a maturity date beyond 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 122 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value accounting Forward contracts for the sale of power, purchase of coal from international sources, purchase of CO emissions allowances, 2 financial coal collectively Commodity contracts and foreign currency exchange contracts are marked-to-market and recorded in the balance sheet at fair value as follows: As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Commodity contracts: Less than one year 132.9 97.4 27.8 52.3 More than one year but not more than two years 44.8 55.0 3.6 5.8 More than two years 8.4 45.0 0.1 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts: Less than one year 6.2 33.3 1.8 52.9 More than one year but not more than two years 28.1 40.2 1.5 73.0 More than two years 29.9 92.0 3.5 133.3 Total 250.3 362.9 38.3 317.3 Less: non-current portion Commodity contracts 53.2 100.0 3.7 5.8 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 58.0 132.2 5.0 206.3 Total non-current portion 111.2 232.2 8.7 212.1 Current portion 139.1 130.7 29.6 105.2 The total movement in the fair value of these contracts of 166.2 million 2013: 168.9 million loss is recognised in the income statement or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 are met, as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts recognised in arriving at operating profit 65.8 110.2 Unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts recognised in the hedge reserve note 28 100.4 58.7 Total unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts 166.2 168.9 Unrealised gains in the income statement in 2014 are primarily the result of changes in the fair value of our forward currency exchange contracts.
We undertook an extensive currency hedging programme in the prior year to secure the sterling cost of fuel purchases made in foreign currencies.
The high volume of contracts held demonstrated in the table on page 126 means low levels of exchange rate volatility can have a significant impact on amounts recognised in our income statement in respect ofthese contracts.
The vast majority of our fuel purchases, and therefore our currency exchange contracts, are denominated in US dollars.
The strengthening of the US dollar against sterling during 2014 offset previous losses driven by weakening during previous periods, resulting in significant unrealised gains in the current year.
These were offset by unrealised losses on our financial oil contracts as a result of falling oil prices in the final quarter of 2014.
We utilise financial contracts to fix oil indexation in fuel purchase contracts.
Unrealised gains recognised in the hedge reserve principally reflect gains on the portion of our forward currency exchange contracts that are designated in effective hedge relationships in accordance with IAS 39 and forward contracts for the sale of power which have increased in value relative to the market as prices fell in the second half of 2014.
123 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 20.
Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value measurement, Commodity contracts fair value The fair value of commodity contracts qualifying as derivative financial instruments, not excluded through the own use exemption, are calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date.
As contracts are generally short-term, forward market price curves are available for the duration of the contracts.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the quoted price for financial liabilities is the current ask price.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts fair value The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts isdetermined using forward currency exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
Other financial contracts fair value The fair value of other financial contracts qualifying as derivative financial instruments, not excluded through the own use exemption, is calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are discounted to reflect the credit risk inherent within the instrument.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for the presence of embedded derivatives.
Where contracts were found to contain embedded derivatives, they were considered to be closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract, and therefore do not require separate valuation from their host contracts.
Categorisation within the fair value measurement hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that issignificant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset or liability as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that arenot based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The fair value of both commodity contracts and forward foreign currency exchange contracts is largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and the contract price: therefore these contracts are categorised as Level 2.
There have been no transfers during the year between Level 1, 2 or 3 category inputs.
21 Other financial instruments We hold a variety of other non-derivative financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, payables and receivables arising from our operations.
Fair value Cash and cash equivalents note 17, short-term investments note 16, trade and other receivables note 15, and trade and other payables note 18 generally have short times to maturity.
For this reason, their carrying values approximate to their fair value.
The Groups borrowings note 19 relate principally to amounts drawn down against term loans, the carrying amounts of which approximate their fair values by virtue of being floating rate instruments.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 12 4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Financial risk disclosures IFRS require us to provide information that assists you in understanding the nature and extent of risks arising from the financial instruments we hold, described in the two previous notes.
Such risks include liquidity, credit and counterparty risk.
We also describe below the wider financial risks that we manage using financial instruments, for example how derivative contracts minimise our exposure to commodity market and foreign currency risk.
Risk The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including commodity price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and credit risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability ofcommodity and financial markets and seeks to manage potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by the risk management committees as detailed in Principal risks and uncertainties page 46 which identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups trading function under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity, the price of coal, sustainable biomass and other fuels, and the price of CO emissions allowances.
Price variations and market cycles have 2 historically influenced the financial results of the Group and are expected to continue to do so.
The Group has a policy of securing forward power sales, purchases of fuel and CO emissions allowances when profitable to do so.
2 All commitments to sell power under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Groups cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of electricity.
The Group purchases coal, sustainable biomass and other fuels under either fixed or variable priced contracts with different maturities from a variety of domestic and international sources.
All international physical coal purchase contracts transacted at a fixed price and financial coal contracts exchanging floating price coal for fixed price amounts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Groups cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of coal.
The Group purchases CO emissions allowances under fixed price contracts with different maturity dates from a range of 2 domestic and international sources.
All commitments to purchase CO emissions allowances under fixed price contracts are 2 designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Groups cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of CO 2 emissions allowances.
Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to commodity prices for outstanding monetary items at the balance sheet date.
The analysis is based on the Groups commodity financial instruments held at each balance sheet date.
If commodity prices had been 5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups:, profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 would increase decrease by 9.4 million 2013: increase decrease by 6.3 million.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to financial coal and oil derivatives: and, the hedge reserve would decrease increase by 12.0 million 2013: decrease increase by 27.0 million mainly as a result ofthe changes in the fair value of commitments to sell power.
Interest rate risk Historically the Group has been exposed to interest rate risk principally in relation to its bank debt, and has sought to mitigate this risk with interest rate hedges on a proportion of its debt facilities.
The Group has no interest rate swaps outstanding at the balance sheet date: however this risk management tool remains available to the Group.
Information about the Groups instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and their repayment schedules is included below.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
If interest rates had been 1% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit after tax and net assets for the year ended 31 December 2014 would decrease increase by 1.4 million 2013: decrease increase by 1.0 million as a result of the changes in interest payable during the period.
125 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 22.
Financial risk disclosures continued Foreign currency risk Foreign currency exchange contracts are entered to hedge fixed price international coal purchases in US dollars, biomass purchases in US dollars, Canadian dollars and euros, and CO emissions allowances purchases in euros.
As our 2 biomass transformation plans have progressed, we have entered into an increasing volume of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters utilising a variety of foreign currency exchange contracts.
Foreign currency sensitivity If sterling exchange rates had been 5% stronger weaker against other currencies and all other variables were held constant, theGroups:, profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 would decrease increase by 261.0 million 2013: decrease increase by 198.9 million.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to foreign currency exchange contracts entered in relation tofuel purchase contracts: and, other equity reserves would decrease increase by 48.7 million 2013: decrease increase by 49.6 million as a result of the changes in the fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts.
Liquidity risk The treasury function is responsible for liquidity, funding and settlement management under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Liquidity needs are monitored using regular forecasting of operational cash flows and financing commitments.
The Group maintains a mixture of cash and cash equivalents, and committed facilities in order to ensure sufficient funding for business requirements.
The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of non-derivative financial liabilities.
The tables include both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the balance sheet date.
As at 31 December 2014 Within 3 months 3 months 1 year 1 year Total m m m m Term loans, gross value 3.4 10.8 388.0 402.2 Finance lease liabilities, carrying value 0.6 0.6 Borrowings, contractual maturity 3.4 11.4 388.0 402.8 Trade and other payables 353.4 113.3 1.6 468.3 356.8 124.7 389.6 871.1 As at 31 December 2013 Within 3 months 3 months 1 year 1 year Total m m m m Term loans, gross value 2.7 8.4 277.9 289.0 Finance lease liabilities, carrying value 0.2 0.1 0.3 Borrowings, contractual maturity 2.7 8.6 278.0 289.3 Trade and other payables 279.6 85.4 0.5 365.5 282.3 94.0 278.5 654.8 Interest payments are calculated based on forward interest rates estimated at the balance sheet date using publicly available information.
The weighted average interest rate payable at the balance sheet date on our term loans was 4.21% 2013: 4.65%.
The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments which are marked-tomarket, based on the undiscounted net cash inflows outflows.
Where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to projected commodity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates, as illustrated by the yield or other forward curves existing at the reporting date.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 126 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk disclosures continued As at 31 December 2014 Within 1 year 12 years 2 years Total m m m m Commodity contracts, net 170.7 10.2 3.8 177.1 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts, net 941.2 1,206.0 2,157.3 4,304.5 1,111.9 1,216.2 2,153.5 4,481.6 As at 31 December 2013 Within 1 year 12 years 2 years Total m m m m Commodity contracts, net 549.4 156.1 0.4 705.9 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts, net 816.6 739.9 2,210.3 3,766.8 1,366.0 896.0 2,210.7 4,472.7 Counterparty risk As the Group relies on third party suppliers for the delivery of fuel, sustainable biomass and other goods and services, it is exposed to the risk of non-performance by these third party suppliers.
If a large supplier falls into financial difficulty and or fails to deliver against the contracts, there would be additional costs associated with securing fuel from other suppliers.
The Group enters into fixed price and fixed margin contracts for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties.
The failure of one or more of these counterparties to perform their contractual obligations may cause the Group financial distress or increase the risk profile of the Group.
Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, assummarised below: As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 180.9 267.3 Short-term investments 40.1 20.0 Trade and other receivables 367.9 251.8 Derivative financial instruments 250.3 38.3 839.2 577.4 Trade and other receivables are stated gross of the provision for doubtful debts of 6.8 million 2013: 5.6 million.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by risk management committees.
Where considered appropriate, counterparties are required to provide credit support in the form of a parent company guarantee, letter of credit, deed of charge, or cash collateral.
In addition, where deemed appropriate the Group has purchased credit default swaps.
The investment of surplus cash is undertaken to maximise the return within Board approved policies.
These policies manage credit risk exposure by setting out minimum rating requirements, maximum investment with any one counterparty and the maturity profile.
127 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 22.
Financial risk disclosures continued Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure it is able to continue as a going concern, and maintain its credit rating while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders equity excluding the hedge reserve, less net cash.
Net cash is comprised of borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents in note 17 and short-term investments in note 16.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Borrowings 319.6 216.1 Cash and cash equivalents 180.9 267.3 Short-term investments 40.1 20.0 Net cash 98.6 71.2 Total shareholders equity, excluding hedge reserve 1,556.2 1,473.8 23 Provisions We make a provision for reinstatement to cover the estimated costs of decommissioning, demolishing and remediating our generation assets at the end of their useful economic lives.
The amount represents the present value i. e. it is discounted to reflect the time value of money of the expected costs.
Provisions are for liabilities of uncertain timing and or amount, andassuch by their nature are estimated.
Provision is made for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the useful economic life of the Groups generating assets, when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis.
The amount provided represents the present value of the expected costs.
The discount rate used is a risk free pre-tax rate, reflecting the fact that the estimated future cash flows have built in risks specific to the liability.
An amount equivalent to the discounted provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included in interest payable and similar charges.
Reinstatement m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2013 31.5 Unwinding of discount 0.9 At 1 January 2014 32.4 Impact of triennial revaluation 3.7 Unwinding of discount 1.1 At 31 December 2014 29.8 The initial provision and subsequent estimation changes are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and are being depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs note 6.
The provision is estimated using the assumption that the reinstatement will take place between 2039 and 2045, and has been estimated using existing technology at current prices based on independent third party advice, updated on a triennial basis.
The most recent update took place in 2014.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 128 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Deferred tax Deferred tax is principally an accounting adjustment to reflect the tax charges or credits that are expected to arise in the future, as a result of differences between the accounting and tax rules relating to certain transactions that happened before the end of the current year.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset as there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax liabilities assets Accelerated Financial capital Non-trade Other Other instruments allowances losses liabilities assets Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 25.3 217.1 24.0 14.5 11.6 170.7 Credited charged to the income statement 19.3 22.8 9.3 8.4 0.7 25.1 Credited to equity in respect of actuarial losses 0.6 0.6 Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 11.2 11.2 At 1 January 2014 55.8 194.3 14.7 22.9 12.9 133.8 Charged to the income statement 13.2 4.1 7.1 3.7 3.2 31.3 Credited to equity in respect of actuarial losses 0.7 0.7 Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 20.1 20.1 At 31 December 2014 22.5 198.4 7.6 26.6 9.0 185.9 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future associated taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets with an estimated value of 10 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 6.1 million in respect of UK and US losses that are carried forward against future taxable income, where recovery is not currently probable.
25 Issued equity Our ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares issued, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net oftax, from the proceeds.
Issued equity continued The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 number number At 1 January 402,566,332 401,587,564 Issued under employee share schemes 2,255,229 978,768 At 31 December 404,821,561 402,566,332 16 The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income.
29 No shareholders have waived their rights to dividends.
Issued under employee share schemes On 10 March 2014, a total of 2,126,934 shares were issued in satisfaction of shares vesting in accordance with the rules of the Groups Bonus Matching Plan granted in 2010.
From 1 May 2014 a further 113,085 shares were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Plan, also granted in 2010.
During 2014, 7,106 shares and 5,563 shares were issued on early exercise of options under the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Plan by five individuals whose employment had terminated due to retirement 2013: 7,222 shares relating to three individuals whose employment terminated due to retirement and four whose employment had terminated due to redundancy, respectively.
Additionally during 2014 2,541 shares were issues on early exercise of options under the Groups Bonus Matching Plan to one individual whose employment had terminated due to retirement.
26 Share-based payments We operate two share option schemes for our employees the Bonus Matching Plan BMP for directors and senior executives, and the Savings-Related Share Option SAYE Plan for all qualifying employees.
We incur a cost in respect of these schemes in our income statement, which is set out below along with a detailed description of each scheme and the number of options outstanding.
Share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest.
Costs recognised in the income statement in relation to share-based payments during the year are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m BMP 5.2 5.5 SAYE 0.7 0.3 5.9 5.8 Share Incentive Plan SIP Between 2008 and 2010, qualifying employees could buy up to 1,500 worth of Partnership Shares in any one tax year.
Matching Shares were awarded to employees to match any Partnership Shares they bought, in a ratio of one-to-one, with the cost of Matching Shares borne by the Group.
There were no awards under the SIP Partnership and Matching Share plan in 2012, or 2013.
Shares in the Company held under trust and under the Companys control as a result of the SIP were as follows: Shares Shares Nominal Market held at Shares Shares held at Cost at value at value at 1 January acquired transferred 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 during year during year 2014 2014 2014 2014 number number number number 000 000 000 SIP 262,835 44,292 218,543 2,050 25 1,467 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 130 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Share-based payments continued Bonus Matching Plan BMP The BMP was introduced in 2009.
Under the scheme, annual awards of performance and service-related shares are made at nil consideration to executive directors and other senior executives up to a maximum of 150% of their annual bonus.
A proportion of the shares vesting is conditional upon whether the Groups TSR matches or outperforms an index determined in accordance with the scheme rules over three years.
For awards made from 2011, a proportion of the shares vesting is conditional upon performance against the internal Balanced Corporate Scorecard.
The fair value of the 2014, 2013 and 2012 BMP awards of 5.4 million, 6.1 million and 5.8 million, respectively, are being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over thecorresponding three year vesting periods.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the BMP awards is as follows: 2014 2013 BMP BMP number number At 1 January 5,187,230 5,038,026 Granted 908,346 1,522,574 Forfeited 182,160 86,912 Exercised 1,840,190 316,526 Expired 19,812 969,932 At 31 December 4,053,414 5,187,230 Savings-Related Share Option Plan SAYE In April 2014, participation in the SAYE Plan was offered again, to all qualifying employees.
Options were granted for employees to acquire shares at a price of 530 pence 2013: 493 pence, representing a discount of 20% to the prevailing market price determined in accordance with the scheme rules.
The options are exercisable at the end of three or five year savings contracts.
The fair value of the options granted in connection with the SAYE Plan of 1.5 million 2013: 0.8 million is being charged to the income statement over the life of the relevant contracts.
Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the SAYE plans are as follows: 2014 2013 SAYE three-year SAYE five-year SAYE three-year SAYE five-year number number number number At 1 January 647,431 926,140 850,067 850,596 Granted 534,832 237,809 423,358 97,804 Forfeited 100,078 45,255 18,604 22,260 Exercised 117,181 6,917 605,052 Expired 1,093 4,357 2,338 At 31 December 963,911 1,107,420 647,431 926,140 Fair value of share-based payment awards The fair value of share-based payment awards was determined as follows: SIP based on price paid at award dates: BMP Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting: and SAYE Black-Scholes model which compares exercise price to share price at the date of grant.
Additional information in relation to the Groups share-based incentive plans is included in the Remuneration Committee report.
131 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 27 Share premium and other reserves The share premium account reflects amounts received in respect of issued share capital see note 25 that exceed the nominal value of the shares issued.
Other equity reserves reflect the impact of some of our historical transactions, which are described under the table below.
Capital redemption reserve Share premium Merger reserve 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m m m At 1 January and 31 December 1.5 1.5 422.8 422.5 710.8 710.8 The capital redemption reserve arose when the Group completed a share buy-back programme in 2007.
The share premium and the merger reserve arose on the financial restructuring of the Group which took place in 2005.
Movements in share premium during 2014 reflect amounts received from the issue of shares under the Groups employee share schemes.
28 Hedge reserve Changes in the fair value of our derivative commodity, financial and currency contracts are recognised in the hedge reserve, to the extent that they qualify as effective hedges under accounting rules.
The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts mature, and we take delivery of the associated commodity or currency.
Managing our principal risks and uncertainties As described in note 20, all of our derivative contracts are entered into for the purpose of commercial hedging: however not all of these contracts qualify as effective hedges under IAS 39.
The changes in fair value of contracts that do not meet the definition of an IFRS effective hedge are recognised in the income statement.
Managing our principal risks and uncertainties is about locking down exposures to moving prices and securing market level dark green and bark spreads for the future.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments used to address commodity price risk and foreign exchange risk as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item is documented, along with its risk management objectives.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
Changes in fair value of contracts designated into such hedging relationships are recognised within the hedge reserve to the extent they are effective.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 63.9 16.4 Gains losses recognised: Commodity contracts 48.1 6.2 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 37.1 69.6 Released from equity: Commodity contracts 8.1 15.9 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 7.1 1.2 Related deferred tax, net note 24 20.1 11.2 At 31 December 16.4 63.9 The Groups cash flow hedges relate to commodity contracts principally commitments to sell power and forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
Amounts are recognised in the hedge reserve as the designated contracts are marked-to-market at each period end for the effective portion of the hedge, which is generally 100% of the relevant contract.
Amounts held within the hedge reserve are then released as the related contract matures and the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss.
For power sales contracts, this is when the underlying power is delivered.
For FX contracts, this is when the associated foreign currency transaction is recognised.
Further information in relation to the Groups accounting for financial instruments is included in note 20.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 132 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Hedge reserve continued The expected release profile from equity of post-tax hedging gains and losses is as follows: As at 31 December 2014 Within 1 year 12 years 2 years Total m m m m Commodity contracts 39.3 0.2 2.1 37.0 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 3.3 1.8 19.1 20.6 36.0 1.6 21.2 16.4 As at 31 December 2013 Within 1 year 12 years 2 years Total m m m m Commodity contracts 6.5 1.5 0.1 7.9 Forward foreign currency exchange contracts 6.2 2.8 47.0 56.0 12.7 4.3 46.9 63.9 29 Retained profits Retained profits are a component of our equity reserves.
The overall balance reflects the total profits we have generated over our lifetime, reduced by the amount of that profit we have distributed back to our shareholders.
The table below reconciles the movements in our retained profits during the year.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 292.5 314.3 Profit for the year 128.7 51.4 Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme note 33 3.4 2.8 Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme note 24 0.7 0.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.2 2.0 Equity dividends paid note 8 55.0 78.8 Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments 5.6 5.8 At 31 December 374.3 292.5 133 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 30 Cash generated from operations Cash generated from operations is the starting point of our cash flow statement on page 104.
This table makes adjustments for any non-cash accounting items to reconcile our profit for the year to the amount of physical cash we have generated from our operations i. e. sourcing, generating and selling electricity.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Profit for the year 128.7 51.4 Adjustments for: Interest payable and similar charges 29.9 24.8 Interest receivable 1.3 1.6 CESP settlement 20.0 Tax charge credit 37.2 19.6 Depreciation and amortisation 80.7 64.8 Unrealised gains losses on derivative contracts 65.8 110.2 Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost 6.2 5.8 Non-cash charge for share-based payments 5.9 5.8 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 241.5 241.6 Changes in working capital: Increase in inventories 45.9 38.9 Increase in receivables 116.3 21.4 Increase in payables 78.3 108.3 Total increase decrease in working capital 83.9 48.0 Decrease in carbon assets 26.5 12.5 Increase in ROC assets 45.0 120.8 Defined benefit pension scheme contributions 11.8 10.8 Cash generated from operations 127.3 170.5 31 Reconciliation of net debt cash This note reconciles our net debt cash position in terms of changes in our cash on hand note 17, short-term investments note 16 and borrowings note 19.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Net cash at 1 January 71.2 311.0 Decrease in cash and cash equivalents 86.4 104.4 Increase decrease in short-term investments 20.1 10.0 Increase in borrowings 103.5 125.4 Net debt cash at 31 December 98.6 71.2 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 134 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Employees and directors This note provides a more detailed breakdown of the cost of our employees, including executive directors.
The average number of employees in Operations staff in our Generation segment, Retail services employees in our Retail segment and Business services those working in central functions is also provided.
Delivering excellent people leadership Biomass conversion secures jobs both at Drax and in the supply chain.
The average number of people employed by the Group increased 11% in 2014.
Staff costs including executive directors Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Included in other operating and administrative expenses note 5 : Wages and salaries 69.1 70.3 Social security costs 8.4 7.4 Other pension costs note 33 11.1 9.8 Share-based payments note 26 5.9 5.8 94.5 93.3 Average monthly number of people employed including executive directors Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 number number Operations 725 639 Retail services 346 343 Business services 253 219 1,324 1,201 13 5 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33 Retirement benefit obligations We operate a defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The Drax Power Group section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme: a pension arrangement under which participating members receive apension benefit at retirement determined by the scheme rules.
Members are typically entitled to annual pensions on retirement of 1 80th of final pensionable salary for each year of service plus a tax-free lump sum of three times pension.
The Drax Power Limited Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme, by contrast provides a retirement benefit that is dependent upon actual contributions made by the Group and members of the scheme.
The income statement charge for the defined benefit scheme is twofold the current past service cost is the increase in the overall liability to pay benefits earned by current employees of the Group in the current previous periods, the net interest cost reflects the unwinding of the pension deficit over time, offset by income earned by the schemes assets.
The income statement charge for the defined contribution scheme represents the contributions due to be paid by the Group in respect of the current period.
Defined contribution scheme The Group operates two defined contribution schemes, The Drax Power Limited Pension Plan and Haven Power Personal Pension Plan, for all qualifying employees.
Pension costs for the defined contribution scheme are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Total included in staff costs note 32 4.9 3.9 As at 31 December 2014, contributions of 0.4 million 2013: 0.7 million due in respect of the current reporting period had notbeen paid over to the scheme.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Defined benefit scheme The Group operates an approved defined benefit scheme on behalf of the Drax Power Group DPG section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS.
This scheme was closed to new members as from 1 January 2002 unless they qualify through being existing members of another part of the ESPS.
Members who joined before this date continue to build up pension benefits as part of the scheme.
The DPG ESPS exposes the Group to actuarial and other risks, the most significant of which are considered to be: Investment risk The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The scheme holds a significant proportion ofgrowth assets equities, property and direct lending which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short-term.
The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the schemes long-term objectives.
Interest rate risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed upon the schemes liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Longevity risk The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases inlife expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities of the scheme.
Inflation risk The majority of the schemes benefit obligations to pay benefits are linked to inflation, and as such higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
The majority of the assets held by the scheme are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
In most cases, caps on inflationary increases are in place, to protect against extreme inflation.
Other risks include operational risks such as paying out the wrong benefits, legislative risks such as the government increasing the burden on pension schemes through new legislation and other demographic risks such as a higher proportion of members with dependants eligible to receive pensions from the Group.
TheTrustees insure certain benefits payable on death before retirement.
A contingent liability exists in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 136 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The last funding valuation of the DPG ESPS was carried out by Aon Hewitt, as a qualified independent actuary, as at 31 March 2013.
Future valuations are required by law at intervals ofno more than three years, therefore the next valuation will take place onor before 31 March 2016.
The results of the latest funding valuation at 31 March 2013 have been adjusted to 31 December 2014, taking into account experience over the period since 31 March 2013, changes in market conditions and differences in financial and demographic assumptions.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost were measured using theprojected unit credit method.
The principal assumptions used, which reflect the nature and term of the scheme liabilities, areas follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 % p. a.
Discount rate 3.7 4.5 Inflation RPI 3.0 3.4 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.8 3.2 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.6 4.4 The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements.
The assumptions are that a member who retired in 2014 at age 60 will live on average for a further 27 years 2013: 27 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 29 years 2013: 29 years after retirement if they are female.
Similarly life expectancy at age 60 for male and female non-pensioners currently aged 45 is assumed to be 28 years and 31 years respectively 2013: 28years and 31 years respectively.
The net liability recognised in the balance sheet is the excess of the present value of the defined benefit obligation over the fair value of the plan assets, determined as follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Defined benefit obligation 242.1 220.9 Fair value of plan assets 207.8 179.2 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 34.3 41.7 The amounts recognised in the income statement, within other operating and administrative expenses and finance costs, areasfollows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Included in staff costs note 32 : Current service cost 6.2 5.8 Past service cost 0.1 Total included in other operating and administrative expenses 6.2 5.9 Included in finance costs note 6 : Interest on net defined benefit liability 1.5 1.7 Total included in finance costs 1.5 1.7 Total amounts recognised in the income statement 7.7 7.6 137 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full, as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Cumulative actuarial losses on defined benefit pension scheme at 1 January 75.4 72.6 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension scheme recognised in the year 3.4 2.8 Cumulative losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December 72.0 75.4 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 220.9 199.0 Current and past service cost 6.2 5.9 Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 Interest cost 9.8 9.1 Actuarial losses 10.2 12.2 Benefits paid 5.2 5.5 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 242.1 220.9 The actuarial losses of 10.2 million reflect 12.3 million arising from changes in financial assumptions 2013: 17.1 million, offset by actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions and scheme experience of 0.5 million and 1.6 million respectively 2013: losses of 4.6 million and gains of 8.5 million respectively.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 m m Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 179.2 156.9 Interest income on plan assets 8.3 7.4 Remeasurement gains 13.6 9.4 Employer contributions 11.7 10.8 Employee contributions 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 5.2 5.5 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 207.8 179.2 Employer contributions included payment of 5.8 million 2013: 5.0 million to reduce the actuarial deficit.
The actual return on plan assets in the period was 21.9 million 2013: 16.8 million.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 138 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The fair values of the major categories of plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m 1 Equities 77.8 74.8 2 Fixed interest bonds 100.5 71.2 Property 25.9 15.9 Hedge funds 0.4 17.2 3 Cash and other assets 3.2 0.1 Fair value of total plan assets 207.8 179.2 1 Under the Groups long-term asset strategy, 60% of assets are invested in return generating asset classes of which 5% is invested in emerging market equity.
The remaining 40% of assets are invested in liability-matching asset classes.
2 Fixed interest bonds include a mixture of corporate, government and absolute return bonds.
Less than 1% has a sub-investment grade credit rating i. e. BB or lower.
3 Other assets include 2.9 million of investments in direct lending, a type of private equity vehicle, which is not quoted in an active market.
The pension plan assets do not include any ordinary shares issued by Drax Group plc or any property occupied by the Group.
The Group employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets.
Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles.
The overall expected rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual asset allocation for the scheme.
The assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate, rate of increase in pensions paid and expected return on plan assets all have apotentially significant effect on the measurement of the scheme deficit.
The following table provides an indication of the sensitivity of the pension deficit at 31 December 2014 to changes in these assumptions: Decrease Increase in net liability % m Discount rate Increase 0.25 11.1 Decrease 0.25 12.0 1 Inflation rate Increase 0.25 10.0 Decrease 0.25 9.6 Life expectancy Increase 1 6.7 Decrease 1 6.8 1 The sensitivity of the scheme liabilities to salary and pension increases is closely correlated with inflation.
The impact of corresponding decreases in these variables isincluded here.
The Group is exposed to investment and other experience risks, as described above, and may need to make additional contributions where it is estimated that the benefits will not be met from regular contributions and expected investment income.
The history of experience adjustments is as follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 242.1 220.9 199.0 182.4 167.2 Fair value of plan assets 207.8 179.2 156.9 145.4 129.9 Deficit 34.3 41.7 42.1 37.0 37.3 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 1.6 8.7 1.7 4.3 9.6 Experience adjustments on plan assets 13.6 9.4 3.0 0.6 3.4 13 9 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees of the Group 70%, former employees of the Group whoare yet to retire 5% and retired pensioners 25%.
The weighted-average period over which benefit payments are expected to be made, or the duration of the liabilities, is currently 22 years.
The Group expects to contribute 11.2 million to its pension plans during the 12 months ended 31 December 2015.
The Group intends to fund the deficit, agreed at the last triennial valuation, over the period to 31 December 2019.
34 Capital and other financial commitments We have a number of financial commitments i. e. a certain, contractual requirement to make a cash payment in the future that are not recorded within our balance sheet as the contract is not yet due for delivery.
Such commitments include contracts for the future purchase of coal and biomass, operating leases for land and buildings, contracts for the construction of assets and contracts for the provision of services.
Delivering our biomass strategy We have made good progress towards securing near-term volumes of sustainable wood pellets and continue with negotiations for long-term supplies and to support our third unit conversion, which is reflected in the level of future commitments to purchase fuel, set out below.
As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 66.7 158.8 Future support contracts not provided in the financial statements 12.4 23.0 Future commitments to purchase fuel under fixed and variable priced contracts 4,512.0 4,048.3 The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 m m Within one year 1.7 1.2 Within two to five years 7.9 5.5 After five years 7.4 7.4 17.0 14.1 35 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future outflows of cash that are dependent on a future event that is outside of our control: timing of the payment is uncertain, cannot be measured reliably, or is considered to be unlikely.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP The UK government intends to implement legislation to equalise the GMP, resulting in an increase in the value of GMP for males.
This would correspondingly increase the defined benefit pension obligation of the Group note 33.
At present, the methodology for implementing the equalisation is uncertain and thus the impact cannot be reliably measured.
As a result, no allowance has been made for GMP equalisation in the calculation of the defined benefit obligation within these consolidated financial statements.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 140 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Related party transactions A related party is either an individual with control or significant influence over the Group, or a company that is linked to us by investment or a related individual.
Our primary related parties are our key management personnel and Capture Power Limited, a company in which the Group holds a 33% interest.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below inaggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, together with the directors interests in the share capital of Drax Group plc, is provided inthe audited part ofthe Remuneration Committee report.
Years ended 31 December 2014 2013 000 000 Salaries and short-term benefits 7,895 5,485 Aggregate amounts receivable under share-based incentive schemes 2,326 2,118 Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 47 136 10,268 7,739 Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of seven 2013: seven directors, being the members of the Executive Committee as described on page 62.
Amounts receivable under incentive schemes represents the expenses arising from share-based payments included in the income statement, determined based on the fair value of the related awards at the date of grant note 26, as adjusted for non-market related vesting conditions.
There were no other transactions with directors for the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements.
Transactions with other related parties As described in note 12, during the year the Group provided funding to Capture Power Limited, a joint venture in which the Group is a venturer, with a total value of 3 million recognised primarily in operating expenditure in the period.
An unsecured amount of 0.5 million owing to the Group remained outstanding at the balance sheet date.
The Group has committed to provide a further 1 million of funds over the remaining period of the feasibility study, with an investment decision expected in 2016.
14 1 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2014 2013 Notes 000 000 Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 4 692,272 593,666 Current assets Amounts due from other group companies 1,254 550 Short-term investments Cash at bank and in hand 4,405 93,515 5,659 94,065 Current liabilities Amounts due to other group companies 11,782 5,495 Net current liabilities assets 6,123 88,570 Net assets 686,149 682,236 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 5 46,764 46,503 Capital redemption reserve 6 1,502 1,502 Share premium account 6 422,882 422,488 Profit and loss account 6 215,001 211,743 Total equity shareholders funds 6 686,149 682,236 These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 23 February 2015.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Dorothy Thompson CBE Tony Quinlan Chief Executive Finance Director Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
