15 1 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Glossary Advantaged fuels EU ETS Net sales Fuel that gives a price advantage against The EU Emissions Trading System is a The aggregate of net volumes attributable standard bituminous coals.
Such fuels mechanism introduced across the EU to bilateral contracts, power exchange include pond fines, off-specification coal to reduce emissions of CO : the scheme trades and net balancing mechanism.
is capable of being extended to cover all Net sales at notional balancing point NBP greenhouse gas emissions.
Ancillary services Net sales at NBP is the volume of power Services provided to National Grid used Feed-in tariff sold to customers by our Retail business for balancing supply and demand or A long-term contract set at a fixed level expressed at the NBP.
The NBP reflects maintaining secure electricity supplies where variable payments are made to the volume of power sold before deduction within acceptable limits.
They are ensure the generator receives an agreed of transmission and distribution losses described in Connection Condition 8 tariff.
The feed-in tariff payment would incurred in transporting this power from oftheGrid Code.
be made in addition to the generators the grid to the customer meter.
revenues from selling in the market.
Availability Planned outage Average percentage of time the units Forced outage A period during which scheduled wereavailable for generation.
Any reduction in plant availability, maintenance is executed according to excluding planned outages.
theplan set at the outset of the year.
Average achieved price Power revenues divided by volume of net Forced outage rate Planned outage rate sales includes imbalance charges.
The capacity which is not available due to The capacity not available due to planned forced outages or restrictions expressed as outages expressed as a percentage of the Balancing mechanism a percentage of the maximum theoretical maximum theoretical capacity.
The sub-set of the market through which capacity, less planned outage capacity.
the System Operator can call upon Power exchange trades additional generation consumption or Grid charges Power sales or purchases transacted on reduce generation consumption through Includes transmission network use of the APX UK power trading platform.
market participants bids and offers, in system charges TNUoS, balancing ROCs order to balance the system minuteservices use of system charges A Renewables Obligation Certificate ROC by-minute.
BSUoS and distribution use of is a certificate issued to an accredited systemcharges DUoS.
Bark spread generator for electricity generated The difference between the power IFRSs from eligible renewable sources.
price and the cost of biomass, net of International Financial The Renewables Obligation is currently renewable support.
the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK.
Carbon price support mechanism LECs or carbon price floor or carbon tax Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of Summer A tax upon fossil fuels including coal used Climate Change Levy exempt electricity The calendar months April to September.
It is charged as a supplies generated from qualifying System operator levy on coal delivered to the power station.
Contracts for difference CfD Levy control framework Responsible for the co-ordination of A mechanism to support investment A control framework for DECC levy-funded electricity flows onto and over the in low-carbon electricity generation.
spending intended to make sure that transmission system, balancing generation The CfD works by stabilising revenues for DECC achieves its fuel poverty, energy supply and user demand.
generators at a fixed price level known as and climate change goals in a way that is Total recordable injury rate TRIR the strike price.
Generators will receive consistent with economic recovery and The frequency rate is calculated on the revenue from selling their electricity into minimising the impact onconsumer bills.
following basis: lost time injuries worse the market as usual.
However, when Load factor than first aid injuries hours worked x the market reference price is below the Net sent out generation as a percentage 100,000. strike price they will also receive a top-up ofmaximum sales.
payment from suppliers for the additional UK NAP amount.
Conversely if the reference price is Lost time injury rate LTIR UK National Allocation Plan.
above the strike price, the generator must The frequency rate is calculated on the Underlying financial measures pay back the difference.
following basis: lost time injuries hours We report financial measures described worked x 100,000.
Lost time injuries are Dark green spread as underlying such as profit after tax and defined as occurrences where the injured The difference between the power price earnings per share.
Underlying measures party is absent from work for more than and the cost of coal and carbon.
are adjusted to exclude the impact of gains 24 hours.
and losses on derivative contracts and the EBITDA Net balancing mechanism associated tax.
Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and Net volumes attributable to accepted bids amortisation, gains or losses on disposal Winter and offers in the balancing mechanism.
of property, plant and equipment and The calendar months October to March.
unrealised gains losses on derivative Net cash debt contracts and CESP settlement.
Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 15 2 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Notes Credits Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
com Photography: Marcus Ginns Andy Wilson Henry Thomas Steve Bates Print: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Cocoon 100 Offset, a paper containing 100% post consumer recycled fibre, which is either Process Chlorine Free PCF or Totally Chlorine Free TCF.
Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
