129 REGISTERED OFFICE AND ADVISERS Shareholder Information Secretary and Registered Office Matt Jowett DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road London NW1 3AX Registered in England No: 1377658 Auditors Deloitte LLP FINANCIAL DIARY 2 New Street Square 17 September 2014 London EC4A 3BZ Annual General Meeting Solicitors 1 October 2014 Allen & Overy LLP Ex-dividend date for final dividend One Bishops Square 3 November 2014 London E1 6AD Payment of final dividend Principal clearing bank The Royal Bank of Scotland 4 December 2014 135 Bishopsgate Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 31 October 2014 London EC2M 3UR 2 April 2015 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend - note ex-dividend date has moved following Stockbroker 1 the introduction of T 2 J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street 1 May 2015 London E14 5JP Payment of interim dividend Registrars 25 June 2015 Equiniti Announcement of full-year results for the year ended 30 April 2015 Aspect House Provisional date Spencer Road 1 T 2 r efers to the reduced settlement period Trade 2 days for some market transactions which will be introduced in the UK and much of Europe on 6 October 2014.
If you wish to find out any more information or whether it will affect your sales of purchases of Lancing DS Smith Plc shares, speak to a stockbroker.
West Sussex BN99 6DA The Registrars provide on-line facilities COMPANY WEBSITE Registrars queries at www.
Once you have Information on how to manage your The Companys website at www.
com registered you will be able to access shareholdings can be found at contains the latest information for information on your DS Smith Plc https: help.
The pages shareholders, including press releases and shareholding, update your personal at this web address provide answers to an updated financial diary.
E-mail alerts of details and amend your dividend payment commonly asked questions regarding the latest news, press releases and financial instructions on-line without having to call shareholder registration, links to reports about DS Smith Plc may be obtained or write to the Registrars.
downloadable forms and guidance notes.
by registering for the e-mail news alert service on the website.
DIVIDENDS If your question is not answered by the information provided, you can send your Shareholders who wish to have their SHARE PRICE INFORMATION enquiry via secure e-mail from these pages.
dividends paid directly into a bank or The latest price of the Companys ordinary You will be asked to complete a structured building society account should contact shares is available from the FT Cityline form and to provide your Shareholder the Registrars.
In addition, the Registrars service.
Calls within the UK are charged Reference, Name and Address.
You will are now able to pay dividends in 90 foreign at 75 pence per minute at all times.
also need to provide your e-mail address currencies.
This service enables the payment To access this service, telephone if this is how you would like to receive your of your dividends directly into your bank 44 0 9058 171 690.
In the UK you can telephone account in your home currency.
Lines are open 8.30am international payments, a charge is deducted DS Smiths ticker symbol is SMDS.
It is to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Calls to this from each dividend payment to cover the recommended that you consult your number will be charged at 8 pence per costs involved.
Please contact the Registrars financial adviser and verify information minute plus network extras.
Other telephone to request further information.
obtained from these services before providers costs may vary.
For overseas, making any investment decision.
The Registrars offer a real-time telephone REGISTRARS and internet dealing service for the UK.
Please contact the Registrars at the address Further details including terms and rates can above to advise of a change of address or for be obtained by logging on to the website at any enquiries relating to dividend payments, www.
co. uk dealing or by calling lost share certificates or other share 0845 603 7037.
Lines are open between registration matters.
DS Smith Plc 350 Euston Road Regents Place London NW1 3AX Telephone 44 0 20 7756 1800 E-mail ir@dssmith.
com Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology on Core Silk made from FSC certified fibre.
Pureprint Group is a carbon neutral company registered to EMAS, the Eco Management Audit Scheme and certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc London www.
