PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The Company financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounts of the Company are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the adjusted cost of the investment, IFRS 2 requires the Parent Company to recognise an increase in the cost of its investment in a subsidiary which has issued share options in the Parent Companys shares to its employees.
Current assets Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and then carried at amortised cost net of impairment provisions.
Bank borrowings and borrowing costs Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts, if any, are recorded at their fair value.
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Companys cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Where a Group Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other Group Companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share capital Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Share-based payments The Company operates one equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: including any market performance conditions: for example, an entitys share price : excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save.
Non-market performance and service conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide services in advance of the grant date and therefore the grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between service commencement period and grant date.
108 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the company either issues new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this purpose.
For issued new share, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be recognised.
New Standards and interpretations The following standards have been adopted by the Company for the first time: Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation regarding other comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from these amendments is a requirement for the Company to combine items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they potentially could subsequently be reclassified to the income statement.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRS and US GAAP, do not extend to the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following relevant standards were endorsed by the EU, but not yet adopted by the Company: IFRS 9, Financial instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015 and therefore the Company has not commenced its evaluation of the impact on the Financial Statements.
The above will be adopted in the Company financial statements when they become effective.
When adopted, none of the above standards or amendments are expected to have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Company.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109
