Glossary Adjusted capital employed Net cash debt Capital employed plus seven times operating lease costs Total borrowings less cash.
Cash includes money market incurred in the year.
deposits but excludes restricted cash.
Adjusted net cash debt Normalised operating profit after tax Net cash debt less seven times operating lease costs incurred Reported operating profit adjusted for one-third of operating in the year.
lease costs incurred in the year, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation tax rate at the end of the financial year.
Aircraft dry wet leasing Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements relate Operated aircraft utilisation solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments to lessors Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
under wet leasing arrangements relate to the provision of Other costs aircraft, crew, maintenance and insurance.
Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, Aircraft owned leased at end of year including some employee costs, compensation paid to Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over passengers and the profit or loss on the disposal of nonone months duration at the end of the period.
aircraft property, plant and equipment.
Available seat kilometres ASK Passengers Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including no-shows, seats provided Average adjusted capital employed for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for The average of opening and closing adjusted capital employed.
Average capital employed Profit before tax per seat The average of opening and closing capital employed.
Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Average fare Return on equity Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders equity.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that Revenue the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the The sum of seat revenue and non-seat revenue.
time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Capital employed Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres Shareholders equity less net cash debt.
Cost per ASK Revenue per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Cost per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
ROCE Cost per seat, excluding fuel Return on capital employed.
Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by ROCE excluding lease adjustments seats flown.
Operating profit, less tax at the prevailing UK corporation EBITDAR tax rate at the end of the financial year, divided by average Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, capital employed.
aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of assets held for sale.
ROCE including lease adjustments Normalised operating profit after tax divided by average Gearing adjusted capital employed.
Adjusted net cash debt divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net cash debt.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats Sector flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying A one-way revenue flight.
136 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 136 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Thank you Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Michael Barker, John Barton, Angela Bennett, Alita Benson, Lis Blair, Warwick Brady, Max Bruce, Lisa Burger, Mike Campbell, Phil Chastell, Ben Cookman, Louise Creighton, Trevor Didcock, Peter Duffy, Kate Field, Jo Flynn, Chris Gadsden, Pallavi Ghosh, Paul Gibson, Lewis Girdwood, Scott Glenister, Val Goldine, Pamela Harrison, Michelle Heywood, Mike Hirst, Shalini Iyanger, Joyce Linehan, Bruce James, Mark Johnston, Sarah Kayser, Chris Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Martin Lynch, Cath Lynn, Will MacLaren, Carolyn McCall OBE, Yasmine Martin, Paul Moore, Tom Oliver, Fatima Parkar, Chris Paull, Giles Pemberton, Louise Pocklington, Captain Dave Prior, Mark Rouessart, Neil Slaven, Natalie Solebo, Chris Sominka, Ben Souter, Andrew Tempest, Huw Thomas, Claire Walker, Ian Walster, Charles Whitehouse, Anna Willshire, Andrew Winterton, and all of our employees across the network.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified: its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
This report is available at: Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc http: corporate.
com Annual report and accounts 2014 Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
