2 The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.74 pence per Ordinary Share, which, when added to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence, givesatotal for the year of27.12 pence per Ordinary Share.
188 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 GLOSSARY CEO MARKET POTENTIAL ESTIMATION OPERATING PROFIT Chief Executive Officer.
In a market say, oil-refining in the US Profit from operations after gain on sale of CFO inwhich we are well-established and property, plant and equipment but before Chief Financial Officer.
havehigh market share, calculate interest and tax.
ourrentalrevenues a known number CFM PARTICULATE in thesector as a proportion of the total Cubic feet per minute.
A unit of volumetric In general this term relates to visible smoke.
economic output of oil refineries in the US capacity.
This produces POWER PROJECTS BUSINESS CO 2 avery small number, like0.00001.
The part of our business which handles very Carbon dioxide.
Make the assumption that if we can achieve, say, 0.00001 of the economic in developing countries but power projects DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE can arise anywhere in the world.
output of refineries in the US as revenues, Profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted we should, in theory, be able to achieve average number of Ordinary Shares ranking PP the same in oil refineries everywhere else.
for dividend during the relevant period, Percentage points.
Therefore if we take the total economic i. e. including the impact of share options.
output of oil refineries in, say China, PROFIT AFTER TAX EPA andthen apply the same multiple to Profit attributable to equity Shareholders.
thatwhichwe achieve in the US, that SPOKE tellsushow bigthe potential market is.
ERP SYSTEM A small service centre which provides a 3.
Take this same technique, and apply Enterprise Resource Planning System.
logistics point from where equipment can be it to about 20 segments in around A software package which is designed to prepared and sent out quickly to customers.
30countries, and we have an estimate manage all the operational and accounting for the marketpotential and a number functions of our business.
tCO2e forour revenues in the sector an accurate Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
GHG number, and therefore an estimate of Greenhouse gas emissions.
TEMPERATURE CONTROL ourshare ofmarket potential.
The temperature control fleet includes G KWH MW chillers, air conditioners, cooling towers, Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
Megawatt a million watts of electricity.
boilers, heat exchangers, heaters, and therequired ancillary products.
It provides HFO NOx HVAC and moisture control equipment that Heavy fuel oil.
helps customers minimise losses, manage HUB risks and capture windows of economic ON-HIRE & OFF-HIRE A large service centre where large items opportunity.
Applications include seasonal When a contract is put out on rent, the ofequipment are stored and serviced.
limitations or catastrophic failure of critical equipment is referred to as on-hire.
When a contract comes off rent, the equipment is cooling equipment, planned and unplanned KVA maintenance, process improvements, referred to as off-hiring.
The on and off-hire A thousand volt amperes.
rates are calculated as the number of MW andtemporary structures.
of equipment that either on or off-hire in LOAD SHEDDING TIER 1, TIER 2, TIER 3, TIER 4 theperiod, divided bythe MW of equipment Load shedding is an intentional power US Federal Government target emission on-hire at the beginning of that period.
shutdown, where electricity is stopped reduction levels.
fora period of time over different parts ORANGE EXCELLENCE of the distribution region.
They are a TRADING PROFIT This is our continuous improvement last-resort measure to avoid a total blackout Operating profit before gain on sale programme.
Orange Belts are trained of thepowersystem and are a demand ofproperty, plant and equipment.
fortwo weeks in improvement techniques response where the demand forelectricity andcontinue to work in their business area exceeds the supply capability of the network.
making localised improvements in service, sales and administration, ultimately making LOCAL BUSINESS Aggreko more efficient and providing The part of our business that looks after ongoing improvement for our customers.
customers local to our service centres Black Belts undertake a year of intensive in North and Latin America, Europe, training in continuous improvement, spanning theMiddleEast, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
a blend of operations improvement, project LWA management, change management and Sound power level at source.
lean six sigma tools and techniques.
Their focus is on the delivery of major, and often, Group-wide improvement projects andalso in the training of our Orange Belts.
Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
com Board photography Andy Wilson Print Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals arerecycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Core Silk, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Watch and download the online report: www.
com Head office Aggreko plc 8th Floor 120 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 7JS United Kingdom T: 44 0 141 225 5900 F: 0141 225 5949 www.
