ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR 23 April 2015 Ex-dividend date Final dividend 24 April 2015 Record date to be eligible for the final dividend 29 April 2015 Annual General Meeting 14 May 2015 Q1 Interim Management Statement for the year to 31 December 2015 26 May 2015 Final dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2014 6 August 2015 Half Year Results announcement for the year to 31 December 2015 early September 2015 Ex-dividend date Interim dividend early September 2015 Record date to be eligible for the interim dividend early October 2015 Interim dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2015 12 November 2015 Q3 Interim Management Statement for the year to 31 December 2015 Our website Dividend Reinvestment Plan Our corporate website provides access to share price and dividend In 2015 we introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for information as well as sections on managing your shareholding eligible Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase additional online, corporate governance and other investor relations information.
sharesin Aggreko with their dividend payment.
Further information To access the website, please visit www.
and a mandate can be obtained from our Registrars, Capita, usingthecontact details below of by using the share portal at Managing your shares online https: shares.
Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering to use our Shareholder portal at https: shares.
This service is Duplicate documents provided by our Registrar, Capita, giving quick and easy access to your Some Shareholders find that they receive duplicate documentation shareholding, allowing you to manage all aspects of your shareholding andsplit dividend payments due to having more than one account online, with a useful FAQ section.
If you think you fall into this group and would liketo combine your accounts, please contact our Registrar, Capita.
Electronic communications We encourage Shareholders to consider receiving their communications Changes of address electronically.
Choosing to receive your communications electronically To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your means you receive information quickly and securely and allows us shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, Capita, tocommunicate in a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective ofyour new address as soon as possible.
You can register for this service online using our share portal at Investor Relations App https: shares.
We have recently published an Investor Relations and Media App, Payment of dividends which is available for both Apple and Android devices.
This allows Shareholders whose dividends are not currently paid directly into youto easily access all our financial publications, including the their bank accounts may wish to consider setting this service up.
The online report and a link to download the We encourage Shareholders to have dividends paid direct to their Appcan be found at www.
bank accounts as this has a number of advantages, including ensuring Sharegift efficient payment to receive cleared funds on the payment date.
If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, If Shareholders would like to receive their dividends directly to their you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift Registered Charity bank account, they should call the Registrar, Capita, using the no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in the donation of small, details below.
unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can find out more byvisiting www.
UK Shareholders may also register using the share portal at https: shares.
Shareholder queries Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Capita.
Overseas Shareholders may also be able to have the dividend Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should converted to local currency before payment to your bank account contactCapita directly using one of the methods listed below.
using the international payment service.
Please call the Registrar, For more general queries, Shareholders can look at our website at Capita, using the details below, or visit www.
184 Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 1 2 3 4 USEFUL CONTACTS Additional documents Registrar An interactive summary version of our Annual Report is available online Capita Asset Services, Shareholder Solutions at www.
The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road Additionally the Annual Report is available for download in pdf format Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU at www.
United Kingdom Telephone 0871 664 0300 Unsolicited mail and Shareholder fraud 44 0 20 8639 3399 Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or Website www.
com telephonecalls offering free advice, to buy shares at a discount or Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com offering free company reports.
To find more detailed information onhow Shareholders can be protected from investment scams Stockbrokers visitwww.
uk consumers scams investment-scams Bank of America Merrill Lynch London .
Citigroup Global Markets London Auditors  Glasgow Chartered Accountants Aggrekos registered office 8th Floor, 120 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 7JS Scotland, United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 141 225 5900 Email investors@aggreko.
com Registered in Scotland No.
SC177553 Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Peter Kennerley Aggreko plc Annual report and accounts 2014 185
