Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
with applicable law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law The directors, all of whom are shown on page 26, confirm that to the they are required to prepare the Consolidated financial statements in best of their knowledge: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent company financial statements in The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of The management report includes a fair review of the development the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, company financial statements, the directors are required to: together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Consolidated financial statements, state whether they have By order of the Board been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent company financial statements.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records 24 February 2015 that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014 57
