Notice of Annual General Meeting This Notice is important and requires your immediate attention.
such authority to expire unless renewed, varied or revoked If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you by the Company in general meeting on the earlier of fifteen should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, months from the date this resolution is passed and the solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. be held in 2016, except that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might The 2015 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Company will be held at the offices of the Company, the directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
11.00 a. m. on 5 February 2015 for the following purposes: 13.
That the Enterprise Inns 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan the Ordinary Resolutions LTIP in the form produced to the meeting and initialled To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, the which will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice, be and is approved and the directors be and are 1.
To receive the directors reports and the audited accounts for authorised to make such modifications to the LTIP as they may the year ended 30 September 2014 and the Auditors Report consider appropriate to take account of best practice and the on the accounts.
requirements of the UK Listing Authority and to adopt the LTIP 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year as so modified and to do all such acts and things as they may ended 30 September 2014 other than the part containing the consider appropriate to implement the LTIP.
That the Enterprise Inns 2015 Save As You Earn Scheme 3.
To approve the directors remuneration policy contained the SAYE Scheme in the form produced to the meeting in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended and initialled by the Chairman, the principal terms of which 30 September 2014. are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice, be and is approved and the directors be and are authorised to 4.
To re-elect Robert Walker as a director.
make such modifications to the SAYE Scheme as they may consider appropriate to take account of best practice and the 5.
To re-elect Simon Townsend as a director.
requirements of the UK Listing Authority and to adopt the SAYE 6.
To re-elect Neil Smith as a director.
Scheme as so modified and to do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the SAYE Scheme.
To re-elect David Maloney as a director.
That the Enterprise Inns 2015 Share Incentive Plan the SIP 8.
To re-elect Peter Baguley as a director.
in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the 9.
To re-appoint Adam Fowle as a director.
Chairman, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this Notice, be and is approved and the directors 10.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company, be and are authorised to make such modifications to the SIP to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Scheme as they may consider appropriate to take account of Meeting of the Company.
best practice and the requirements of the UK Listing Authority 11.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & Young LLPs and to adopt the SIP Scheme as so modified and to do all such remuneration as auditor of the Company.
acts and things as they may consider appropriate to implement the SIP Scheme.
To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise Special Resolutions all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into which will be proposed as special resolutions: shares in the Company together relevant securities up to an 16.
To empower the directors pursuant to section 570 of the aggregate nominal amount of 8,432,957.24 comprising: Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities as defined in a an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62 whether section 560 1 of that Act for cash pursuant to the general in connection with the same offer or issue as under b authority conferred on them by resolution 12 above and or to below or otherwise : and sell equity securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant to section 727 of that Act, in each case as if section 561 1 of b an aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,478.62, in the that Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided form of equity securities within the meaning of section that this power shall be limited to: 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 in connection with an offer or issue by way of rights, open for acceptance for a a any such allotment and or sale of equity securities in period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares connection with an offer or issue by way of rights or other other than the Company on the register on any record pre-emptive offer or issue, open for acceptance for a date fixed by the directors in proportion as nearly as may period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares be to the respective number of ordinary shares deemed other than the Company on the register on any record to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other date fixed by the directors in proportion as nearly as may arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or be to the respective number of ordinary shares deemed expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, legal or or any other matter whatsoever, practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 129 129 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Notice of Annual General Meeting b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than pursuant Notes to paragraph a above, of equity securities having an 1.
A member who is an individual is entitled to attend, speak and aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other equity vote at the meeting or to appoint one or more other persons as securities, giving the right to subscribe for or convert into his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights on his behalf.
Further relevant shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not details of how to appoint a proxy, and the rights of proxies, are exceeding the sum of 694,971.78. given in the paragraphs below.
A member that is a company can appoint one or more corporate representatives such as a This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked or director or employee of the company whose attendance at the renewed by the Company in general meeting, at such time as meeting is treated as if the company were attending in person, the general authority conferred on the directors by resolution or it can appoint one or more persons as its proxy to exercise 12 above expires, except that the Company may at any time all or any of its rights on its behalf.
In each case, a person before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would attending the meeting will need to provide the Company or or might require equity securities to be allotted or equity its registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, with securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such expiry evidence of their identity and, if applicable, their appointment and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity as a proxy or corporate representative with authority to vote on securities held as treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer behalf of a member.
or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed 17.
To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally to to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares make market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 2 pence each the Company.
To appoint a proxy or proxies, shareholders must provided that in doing so it: complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, together with a purchases no more than 75,846,017 ordinary shares of the power of attorney or other authority if any under which 2 pence each in aggregate: it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such authority, to the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services b pays not less than 2 pence excluding expenses per PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY: or b a ordinary share of 2 pence each: and CREST Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 11 below : or c pays a price per share that is not more excluding c an online proxy appointment at www.
expenses per ordinary share than the higher of: i 5% com you will need to enter the Control Number, together with above the average of the middle market quotations for your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number printed the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock on your personalised form of proxy, in each case so that it is Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days received no later than 11.00 a. m. on 3 February 2015.
To appoint immediately before the day on which it purchases that more than one proxy, you will need to complete a separate share: and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the proxy form in relation to each appointment.
A personalised Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003. form of proxy for use in connection with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with this document.
If you do not have a This authority shall expire fifteen months after the date of the personalised form of proxy and believe that you should, please passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the contact the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2016, Services PLC, on 0870 889 4080 or at Computershare Investor except that the Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 shares under this authority before it expires, complete the 6ZY.
purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
You will need to state clearly on each proxy form the number of 18.
To authorise the directors to call a general meeting of the shares in relation to which the proxy is appointed.
A failure to Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less specify the number of shares each proxy appointment relates than 14 clear days notice.
to, or specifying a number of shares in excess of those held by the member, will result in the proxy appointment being invalid.
The directors believe that the proposals in resolutions 1 to 18 are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and they 4.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 11 resolutions.
below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do On behalf of the Board so.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint Company Secretary holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment 8 December 2014 submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority Registered office: is determined by the order in which the names of the joint 3 Monkspath Hall Road holders appear in the Companys register of members in Solihull respect of the joint holding the first-named being the most West Midlands senior.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under 130 130 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 an agreement between him her and the shareholder by and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed any appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above does or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the of the CREST system and timings.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members 8.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those have the right to require the Company to publish on a website shareholders included in the register of members of the a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit Company at 6.00 p. m. on 3 February 2015 or, if the meeting is of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the which is two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected be entitled to attend and to vote at the Annual General Meeting with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since in respect of the number of shares registered in their names the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies 6.00 p. m. on 3 February 2015, or, if the meeting is adjourned, Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses two days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will be in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later 9.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 8 December 2014, the Companys issued than the time when it makes the statement available on the share capital comprised 555,977,435 ordinary shares of website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual 2 pence each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one General Meeting includes any statement that the Company vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act total number of voting rights in the Company as at 9.00 a. m. on 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 10.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through questions.
The Company must answer any such question the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s of the meeting by such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure www.
CREST personal members or of confidential information: b the answer has already been other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to order of the meeting that the question be answered.
take the appropriate action on their behalf.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary 11.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the shares in the Company, please forward this annual report and CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a accounts to the purchaser or transferee or to the stockbroker, CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in bank or other person through whom the sale or transfer was accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The service agreements of the executive directors and copies of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed available for inspection during normal business hours on any proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays at received by the Companys agent ID 3RA50, by the latest time the registered office of the Company and will be available for for receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 2 above.
inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Annual For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the General Meeting.
time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys 17.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in Notice, or any related documents including the proxy form, to the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change communicate with the Company for any purposes other than of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be those expressly stated.
communicated to the appointee through other means.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by 12.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at or voting service providers, should note that Euroclear UK & www.
Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 131 131 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
