Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of why the Board believes he Company to be held on 5 February 2015 is set out on pages 129 should be re-appointed are included in the Governance Report in the to 131 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The following notes Annual Report and Accounts, starting at page 32. provide an explanation as to why the resolutions set out in the Resolution 10 Auditors re-appointment Notice are to be put to shareholders.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that an auditor is appointed at Resolutions 1 to 15 are ordinary resolutions.
These resolutions each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold office until will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast for or against the next such meeting.
The resolution seeks shareholder approval are in favour.
for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external Resolution 1 Laying of accounts auditor, further information on which can be found in the Annual The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to present to Report and Accounts on pages 39 and 40.
After considering relevant the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting the reports of information, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board of the directors and auditor, and the audited accounts of the Company, directors that Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed.
for the year ended 30 September 2014.
The reports of the directors and the audited accounts have been approved by the directors, and Resolution 11 Auditors remuneration the report of the auditor has been approved by the auditor, and a This resolution gives the directors the authority to determine the copy of each of these documents may be found in the Annual Report remuneration of the auditor for the audit work to be carried out by and Accounts.
them in the next financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditor for the next financial year will be disclosed in the next Resolutions 2 and 3 Directors remuneration report and audited accounts of the Company.
directors remuneration policy Following changes to the Companies Act 2006 which took effect on Resolution 12 Authority to the directors to allot shares 1 October 2013, the Directors Remuneration Report is now divided The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors may only allot into two parts: an annual statement, which is shown on pages shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
Resolution 12 will, if 44 to 45 of the Annual Report and Accounts, and an annual report passed, authorise the directors to allot shares and to grant rights to on remuneration, which starts at page 55 of the Annual Report and subscribe for, or convert securities into, shares up to a maximum Accounts together the annual remuneration report, and where a nominal amount of 8,432,957.24, which represents an amount vote on the remuneration policy is proposed, the proposed directors which is approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary remuneration policy the remuneration policy, which starts at share capital of the Company as at 8 December 2014 excluding page 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
treasury shares, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
The Company did not issue any shares during the The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to seek shareholder period under review but, pursuant to the terms of convertible bonds approval of the annual remuneration report on an annual basis.
This previously issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, it is sought in resolution 2. has agreed to issue up to 50,800,000 shares on conversion of the The Companies Act 2006 also now requires the Company to have bonds.
received shareholder approval of a remuneration policy for its As provided in paragraph a of the resolution, up to half of this directors.
This is a binding policy and, after it takes effect, the directors authority equal to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of will not be entitled to remuneration unless such remuneration the Company will enable directors to allot and issue new shares is consistent with the approved policy from time to time or in whatever manner subject to pre-emption rights they see fit.
shareholders otherwise approve the remuneration.
The Company Paragraph b of the resolution provides that the remainder of the obtained shareholder approval for a policy at its AGM in February authority equal to a further one-third of the issued ordinary share 2014 and while, ordinarily, it would not need to seek fresh approval capital of the Company may only be used in connection with a rights from its shareholders for its policy until its AGM in February 2017, issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
As paragraph a imposes the review of remuneration policy for directors which has occurred no restrictions on the way the authority may be exercised, it could over the past year and, in particular, the adoption of new share plans be used in conjunction with paragraph b so as to enable the whole which are the subject of additional resolutions at this years AGM, two-thirds authority to be used in connection with a rights issue.
have led the Company to propose a new remuneration policy for its directors.
Approval of the new policy is sought in resolution 3 and, The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that is fifteen months if approved, the policy will take effect from the end of the AGM and after the date of the passing of the resolution and the conclusion of will replace the policy approved by shareholders in February 2014. the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Resolutions 48 Re-election of directors Passing resolution 12 will ensure that the directors continue to have In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when directors of the Company will stand for re-election.
Biographical opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
There are no current information for the directors is shown on page 31 of the Annual Report plans to issue new shares except in connection with employee share and Accounts.
Details of why the Board believes that the relevant schemes and on conversion of the bonds.
directors should be re-elected are included in the Governance Report As at 8 December 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the in the Annual Report and Accounts, starting at page 32. publication of the Notice, the Company had 555,977,435 ordinary Resolution 9 Director appointed since the last Annual shares of 2 pence each in issue and held 50,000,000 treasury General Meeting shares, which is equal to approximately 9.88% of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at that date.
The Companys Articles of Association require that directors appointed by the Board must seek re-appointment at the next following AGM.
Accordingly, Adam Fowle is retiring and is seeking re-appointment.
Biographical information for Adam Fowle is shown on page 31 of the 132 132 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Resolution 13 Approval of the new Long-Term Incentive over the average of the previous five business days middle market Plan the LTIP prices: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where The Companys current LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2005 the purchase is carried out.
This authority will only be exercised if and expires in 2015.
Therefore after extensive consultation with, and market conditions make it advantageous to do so.
good support from, major shareholders, the Company is seeking shareholder approval for the Enterprise Inns 2015 LTIP.
A summary of The directors present intention is that shares purchased pursuant the principal terms of the LTIP is set out in pages 133 to 135 of these to this authority will be cancelled immediately on purchase.
Explanatory Notes and details of the Remuneration Committees Alternatively, the shares may be held in treasury, sold for cash or proposals in relation to the awards proposed to be granted in 2015 are provided Listing Rule requirements are met transferred to an described in the Directors Remuneration Report for the period ended employees share scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be 30 September 2014. to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for Resolution 14 Approval of the new Save As You Earn example, they carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
Scheme the SAYE The directors will only make purchases under this authority if they The Companys current SAYE was approved by shareholders in believe that to do so would result in increased earnings per share and 2005 and expires in 2015.
Therefore the Company is seeking would be in the interests of the shareholders generally.
shareholder approval for the Enterprise Inns 2015 SAYE.
A summary of the principal terms of the SAYE is set out on page 135 of these As at 8 December 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the Explanatory Notes.
publication of the Notice, the total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of 2 pence each in the Company was Resolution 15 Approval of the new Share Incentive Plan 18,606,404, representing approximately 3.68% of the issued share the SIP capital of the Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
If The Companys current SIP was approved by shareholders in 2005 the proposed market purchase authority were to be used in full and expires in 2015.
Therefore, the Company is seeking shareholder and all of the repurchased ordinary shares were cancelled but the approval for the Enterprise Inns 2015 SIP.
A summary of the principal Companys issued share capital otherwise remained unaltered, the terms of the SIP is set out on pages 135 to 137 of these Explanatory total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares at that date Notes.
would represent approximately 4.33% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast for and Resolution 18 Approving the notice period for General against are in favour.
Meetings In order to maintain its ability to call general meetings other than Resolution 16 Partial disapplication of statutory an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice, the Company pre-emption rights must offer all shareholders the ability to appoint a proxy electronically The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company issues new via the website of the Company or its registrars and must obtain shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them the approval of its shareholders by means of a special resolution to existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
It is intended proposed that the directors be authorised to issue shares for cash that a similar resolution will be proposed at future Annual General and or sell shares from treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount Meetings.
of 694,971.78 representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 December 2014, the latest Appendix practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice without offering Summaries of the principal terms of the Enterprise Inns 2015 them to shareholders first in order to raise a limited amount of capital Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Enterprise Inns 2015 Save As You easily and quickly if needed.
The resolution also modifies statutory Earn Scheme and the Enterprise Inns 2015 Share Incentive Plan pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
For Summaries of the principal terms of the Enterprise Inns 2015 Long example, the Company having to offer shares to shareholders in Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the Enterprise Inns 2015 Save As certain jurisdictions can result in significant compliance obligations You Earn Scheme the SAYE and the Enterprise Inns 2015 Share and compliance with such obligations may be time consuming and Incentive Plan the SIP and together with the LTIP and the SAYE, costly.
If resolution 16 is passed, this authority will expire at the same the Plans, are set out below.
Certain provisions which apply to time as the authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution 12. all the Plans are summarised at the end of the specific summaries below.
The directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them LTIP flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the resolution.
Eligibility Resolution 17 Purchase of own shares by the Company Any employee including an executive director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the LTIP If passed, this resolution will grant the Company authority for a period at the discretion of the Companys Remuneration Committee the of up to fifteen months after the date of passing of the resolution to Committee.
buy its own shares in the market.
The resolution limits the number of shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 8 December 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice.
The price per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at a minimum amount excluding expenses of 2 pence per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding expenses of the higher of: i 5% Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 133 133 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Grant of awards Nil-Cost Options will normally remain exercisable from the date of vesting until the tenth anniversary of the date on which the Award Awards under the LTIP may be made in the form of: was granted or such earlier date as the Committee may determine a a conditional right to acquire shares at no cost to the participant on or prior to the grant date.
Conditional Award : At any time before or after the point at which a Conditional Award has b an option to acquire shares at nil or nominal cost to the vested, or a Nil-Cost Option has been exercised, but the underlying participant Nil-Cost Option : shares have yet to be issued or transferred to the participant, the Committee may decide to pay a participant a cash amount equal to c shares which are subject to forfeiture under the terms of the the value of the shares he would otherwise have received.
LTIP Forfeitable Shares : or Clawback and malus d a right to acquire a cash amount which relates to the value of a The Committee may decide, at any time prior to the third anniversary certain number of notional shares Cash Award of the end of the period over which any performance conditions and Conditional Awards, Nil-Cost Options, Forfeitable Shares and applicable to an Award are measured, that a participants Award will Cash Awards are together referred to as Awards and each an be subject to clawback if in its opinion i there has been a material Award, as appropriate.
misstatement of the Companys financial results which resulted in the Award over-vesting: ii the assessment of a performance or Awards may only be granted within the six week period following other condition applicable to an Award was based on an error or the approval of the LTIP by shareholders and the announcement of misleading or inaccurate information or assumptions which resulted the Companys results for any period, or on any day on which the in the Award over-vesting: or iii the participant ceases to be a Group Committee determines that exceptional circumstances exist, unless employee or director as a result of material misconduct.
the grant of Awards is restricted as a result of legal or regulatory requirements, in which case Awards may be granted within six The clawback may be satisfied by way of a reduction in: i the amount weeks of the day on which the restriction falls away.
of any future bonus: ii the vesting of any subsisting or future share awards: iii the number of shares under any vested but unexercised No payment will be required for the grant of an Award.
award granted under the Companys share incentive plans, and or by Individual limit requiring the relevant individual to make a cash payment.
Awards may not be granted to a participant in respect of any financial In addition, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the end of year of the Company over shares with a market value as determined the period over which any performance conditions applicable to an by the Committee in excess of 150% of basic salary.
Award are measured, the Committee may determine to reduce the number of shares to which an Award relates or cancel an Award or Performance and other conditions impose further conditions on an Award in the event of a material Awards will be subject to the satisfaction of one or more performance misstatement of the Companys financial results, a material failure of conditions over a performance period normally at least three years risk management by a member of the Group or serious reputational which will determine the proportion if any of the Award to vest.
damage to a member of the Group.
The initial Awards will be subject to performance conditions relating Dividend equivalents to: 1 the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance relative The Committee may decide at any time prior to the transfer or release to a comparator group of other listed companies: and 2 Return of the shares underlying an Award that participants will receive an on Capital Employed.
The performance conditions for subsequent amount in cash and or additional shares calculated by reference Awards will be set by the Committee prior to the grant date.
In to any dividends including the dividend tax credit that would have the case of executive directors, they will be consistent with the been paid on those shares by reference to dividend record dates Companys approved remuneration policy and disclosed in the falling between the time when the relevant Awards were granted relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
and the time when the Awards vested.
This amount may assume the Any performance condition may be amended if an event has reinvestment of dividends, may exclude or include special dividends occurred which causes the Committee reasonably to consider that and any such amount will be payable shortly after vesting, or if the performance condition, without the amendment, would not applicable exercise, of the relevant Award.
achieve its original purpose and the amended performance condition Cessation of employment would not, in the Committees reasonable opinion, be materially less difficult to satisfy than the un-amended performance condition Except in the circumstances set out below, an Award will lapse would have been but for the event in question.
immediately upon a participant ceasing to be employed or hold office with any member of the Group prior to the vesting date.
Vesting and exercise Awards will however vest if a participant ceases to be employed or Awards will normally vest as to one third of the shares on the hold office with any member of the Group because of his death, Committees determination of the relevant performance condition injury or the sale of his employing company or business out of the following the end of the performance period, one third of the shares Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee on the first anniversary of that determination and the remaining Good Leaver Reason.
shares on the second anniversary of that determination or, in any case, such later date as the Committee may determine.
Awards will If the individual leaves for a Good Leaver Reason during the normally vest to the extent that the performance condition has been performance period applicable to an Award, his Award will ordinarily satisfied.
vest on the originally anticipated vesting dates.
However, the Committee may alternatively decide that his Award will vest when the participant leaves or following the assessment of the performance conditions.
134 134 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 The Committee will decide the extent to which an unvested Award relevant legislation from time to time in accordance with a HMRCvests in these circumstances, by reference to the extent to which approved savings contract for three or five years a Sharesave the performance condition is satisfied at the end of the performance Contract.
The proceeds of the Sharesave Contract can be used to period or, as appropriate, at the date on which the participant ceases exercise an option to acquire shares at an exercise price per share to be an officer or employee of the Group and, unless the Committee which may not be less than 80% or such other percentage as may in its discretion determines otherwise, pro-rating for the period of be permitted by the relevant legislation of the market value of a time that has elapsed since the Award was granted until the date share on the date invitations are issued to participate in the SAYE.
on which the participant ceases to be an officer or employee of the Invitations may only be issued within the six week period following Group as a proportion of 36 months.
the approval of the SAYE by shareholders or the announcement of the Companys results for any period or on any day on which the If the individual leaves for a Good Leaver Reason after the end of Board determines that exceptional circumstances exist.
the performance period, his Award will vest on the date of cessation in respect of the maximum number of shares in respect of which Eligibility an Award may vest by reference to the satisfaction of the relevant All UK tax-resident employees including full-time executive directors performance condition, unless the Committee determines that of the Company and any of its subsidiaries which participate in the the Award should vest in respect of those shares on the originally SAYE at the Boards discretion, who have been employed for a anticipated vesting dates.
minimum period determined by the Board not exceeding five years, and any other employees nominated by the Board may apply for an To the extent that Nil-Cost Options vest if a participant leaves for option on any occasion on which invitations are issued.
a Good Leaver Reason, they may be exercised for a period of six months following vesting and will lapse at the end of that period.
Exercise of options If a participant ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group Ordinarily, an option may be exercised within six months of maturity for a Good Leaver Reason whilst holding vested Nil-Cost Options, of the Sharesave Contract.
Options may only be exercised using the he will normally have six months from his cessation of office or proceeds of the Sharesave Contract.
employment to exercise those Nil-Cost Options after which his NilCost Options lapse.
Cessation of employment Options may be exercised for a period of six months following Corporate events the individuals cessation of employment if a participant leaves In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up employment by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or of the Company, the Awards will vest early.
If the takeover, scheme the sale of the entity that employs him out of the Group or, provided of arrangement or winding-up takes place before the end of the the option has been held for at least three years, any other reason relevant performance period, the proportion of the Awards which apart from summary dismissal.
vest will be determined by the Committee by reference to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied and, unless the If an individual dies, his option may be exercised for a period of 12 Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for the period of time months from the maturity date of the Sharesave Contract if he dies which has elapsed between the grant date and the relevant event as within six months after the maturity date or 12 months from his a proportion of 36 months.
If the takeover, scheme of arrangement death, if he dies before the maturity date.
or winding-up of the Company takes place after the end of the If a participant ceases employment with the Group and any associated performance period, Awards will vest in respect of the maximum company of the Group in any other circumstances, any option he number of shares in respect of which an Award may vest by holds will lapse on the date on which he ceases employment.
reference to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition.
Corporate events To the extent that Nil-Cost Options vest in the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding-up of the Company, they may Options may be exercised early in the event of a takeover, scheme of normally be exercised for a period of one month from the relevant arrangement or voluntary winding-up of the Company.
Alternatively, event and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
options may be exchanged with the agreement of the acquiring company and the participant for equivalent options in the new In the event of an internal reorganisation of the Group, Awards will holding company.
Options will be exchanged in the event of an not vest but will with the consent of the acquiring company be internal reorganisation of the Group.
replaced by equivalent new Awards over shares in the acquiring company.
SIP General In the event of a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event The SIP is an all employee arrangement, proposed to satisfy which would affect the market price of shares, the Committee may the requirements of Schedule 2 to the Income Tax Earnings and determine that Awards vest on the same basis as set out above for Pensions Act 2003 so that Awards granted under it will offer a takeover.
beneficial tax treatment to the participant and the member of the SAYE Group employing the participant.
General Under the SIP, eligible employees may be: The SAYE is an all-employee arrangement, proposed to satisfy the requirements of Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Earnings and i awarded up to 3,600 worth of free shares Free Shares each Pensions Act 2003 so that options granted under it will offer year: beneficial tax treatment to the participant and the member of the ii offered the opportunity to buy shares with a value of up to the Group employing the participant.
lower of 1,800 and 10% of the employees pre-tax salary per year Partnership Shares : The SAYE will give participating employees the opportunity to save up to 500 per month or such other amount permitted under the Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 135 135 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting iii given up to two free shares Matching Shares for each bought within 30 days of, as appropriate, the end of the Accumulation Partnership Share bought: and or Period or the deduction from pay.
If there is an Accumulation Period, the number of shares purchased will be determined by reference iv allowed or required to purchase shares using any dividends to the market value of the shares at the start of the Accumulation received on shares held in the SIP Dividend Shares.
Period, or the proposed acquisition date or the lower of the two.
The limits set out above are the current limits under the applicable An employee may stop and start or, with the agreement of the SIP legislation.
The Board may determine that different limits will Company, vary deductions at any time although an employee may apply in the future should the relevant legislation change in this only restart deductions once per Accumulation Period without respect.
Once acquired, Partnership Shares may be withdrawn from the SIP by the employee at any time subject to the SIP Trust deduction of income tax and National Insurance contributions and The SIP operates through a UK-resident trust the SIP Trust.
The will not be capable of forfeiture.
SIP Trust purchases or subscribes for shares that are awarded to or purchased on behalf of employees under the SIP.
Matching Shares The Board may offer Matching Shares free to an employee who has An employee will be the beneficial owner of any shares held on his purchased Partnership Shares.
If awarded, Matching Shares must be behalf by the trustee of the SIP Trust.
Any shares held in the SIP Trust awarded on the same basis to all employees up to a maximum of will rank equally with shares then in issue.
If an employee ceases to two Matching Shares for every Partnership Share purchased or such be employed by the Group he will be required to withdraw his Free, other limit prescribed by the legislation from time to time.
Partnership, Matching and Dividend Shares from the SIP Trust or the Free Shares or Matching Shares may be forfeited as described There is a holding period of between three and five years the precise below.
duration to be determined by the Board during which the employee cannot withdraw the Matching Shares from the SIP Trust.
Eligibility Each time that the Board decides to operate the SIP, all UK taxThe Board can, at its discretion, provide that the Matching Shares resident employees including executive directors of the Company will be forfeited if the associated Partnership Shares are withdrawn and any of its subsidiaries that participate in the SIP must be offered by the employee other than on a corporate event or where the the opportunity to participate.
Other employees may be permitted to employee leaves employment with the Group other than in specified participate.
Employees invited to participate must have completed good leaver circumstances or if the employee leaves employment a minimum qualifying period of employment determined by the with the Group other than in specified good leaver circumstances.
Board before they can participate.
That period must not exceed 18 Reinvestment of dividends months or such other period as may be prescribed by the legislation from time to time.
The Board may allow or require an employee to reinvest the whole or part of any cash dividends paid on shares held in the SIP.
Dividend Free Shares Shares must be held in the SIP Trust for three years, unless the Free Shares must be awarded on the same terms to each employee, employee leaves employment with the Group.
Once acquired, but the number of Free Shares awarded can vary by reference to Dividend Shares are not capable of forfeiture.
the employees remuneration, length of service, number of hours Corporate events worked and or objective performance criteria.
In the event of a general offer being made for the Company or a similar The award of Free Shares can, if the Company so chooses, be takeover event taking place during a holding period, employees will subject to the satisfaction of a pre-award performance target which be able to direct the trustee of the SIP Trust as to how to act in measures the objective success of the individual, team, division or relation to their shares held in the SIP.
other securities for the shares held for them in the SIP, those other securities are held in the SIP on the same basis.
There is a holding period of between three and five years the precise duration to be determined by the Board during which the employee Variation of capital cannot withdraw the Free Shares from the SIP Trust or otherwise Shares acquired on a variation of share capital of the Company dispose of the Free Shares unless the employee leaves employment will usually be treated in the same way as the shares acquired or with the Group.
awarded under the SIP in respect of which the rights were conferred At its discretion, the Board may provide that some or all of the Free and as if they were acquired or awarded at the same time.
In the Shares will be forfeited to the extent permitted by the relevant event of a rights issue during a holding period, participants will be legislation.
able to direct the trustee of the SIP Trust as to how to act in respect of their shares held in the SIP.
Partnership Shares Rights attaching to shares The Board may allow an employee to use pre-tax salary, up to the applicable limit, to buy Partnership Shares.
If a minimum amount of Any shares allotted under the SIP will rank equally with shares then deductions is set, it will not be greater than 10 or such other limit in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior prescribed by the legislation from time to time.
The salary allocated to their allotment.
to Partnership Shares can be accumulated for a period of up to twelve months the Accumulation Period or Partnership Shares can be purchased out of deductions from the employees pre-tax salary when those deductions are made.
Partnership Shares must be 136 136 Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts www www.
com ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 St Stoc ock code: k code: ETI ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Provisions which are common to the LTIP and the SAYE Share rights Adjustments Except as set out above in relation to the SIP, Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the participants have received their In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital and in shares.
Any shares allotted when an Award is satisfied under the the case of Awards granted under the LTIP a demerger, delisting, Plans will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights special dividend or other event which affects the market price of arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
shares, the number of shares subject to an Award and or the exercise price applicable to an Award may be adjusted.
Any adjustment to an Satisfying Awards option under the SAYE may only be made in accordance with the Awards may be satisfied using newly issued shares, shares held in requirements of the applicable tax legislation.
treasury or shares purchased in the market.
Terms of options Pensionable earnings Awards and options are not transferable other than on death.
Benefits delivered under the Plans will not form part of pensionable Provisions which are common to the plans earnings.
Overall limits Documents available for inspection The Plans are subject to the following overall limit.
In any ten year The rules of the Plans will be available for inspection at the office period, the number of shares which have been issued or may be of Deloitte LLP Company Secretarial Department, 2 New Street issued under the relevant plan and under any other employee share Square, London EC4A 3BZ on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays plan adopted by the Company may not exceed 10% of the issued and public holidays excluded until the close of the Annual General ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Meeting, and will also be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
The LTIP is subject to the additional following limit.
In any 10 year period, the number of shares which have been issued or may be issued under the relevant plan and under any other discretionary share plan adopted by the Company may not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time.
Shares held in treasury will be treated as newly issued for the purpose of these limits until such time as guidelines published by institutional investor representative bodies determine otherwise.
Termination The Plans will usually terminate on the tenth anniversary of their approval by shareholders but the existing rights of participants will not be affected by any such termination.
Operation The operation of the Plans will be supervised by the Board or a duly authorised committee appointed by the Board.
In the case of the LTIP, the duly authorised committee appointed by the Board will be the Committee.
Amendment The Board may amend the Plans at any time, provided that prior approval of the Companys shareholders will be required for amendments to the advantage of eligible employees or participants relating to eligibility, limits, the basis for determining a participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash comprised in an option or Award and the impact of any variation of capital.
However, any minor amendment to benefit the administration of the Plans, to take account of legislative changes, or to obtain or maintain favourable tax treatment, exchange control or regulatory treatment may be made by the Board without shareholder approval.
Amendments to the SIP require the consent of the trustee of the SIP Trust.
Ent Enter erpr prise Inns plc ise Inns plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts Accounts 137 137 ffor the y or the year ended 30 Sept ear ended 30 September 2014 ember 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report
