FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
Under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, Essentra plc the Company is exempt from the requirements to present its own profit and loss account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, because the published consolidated financial statements of the Group include disclosures which comply with the Standard.
The following principal accounting policies have been consistently applied.
Investment in subsidiary undertaking Investment in subsidiary undertaking is held at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether the investment in its subsidiary has been impaired.
C. Share-based payments The fair value of share options is measured at grant date.
It is recognised as an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work over the expected period between grant and vesting date of the options, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves.
D. Own shares The shares held in the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share incentive plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury shares is also deducted from retained earnings.
E. Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders of the Company final dividend or paid interim dividend.
F. Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Exchange differences arising from movements in spot rates are included in the profit and loss account as exchange gains or losses, while those arising from the interest differential elements of forward currency contracts are included in external interest income or expense.
G. Financial instruments Financial instruments are measured initially at fair value.
The subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the financial instrument.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost.
The Company holds financial instruments which hedge the net investments in the foreign operations of its subsidiary undertakings.
Since the Company does not hold the underlying investments, gains and losses on these instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account.
