Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements b Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued 1 Accounting policies but effective subsequent to the year end: General information IFRS 9, Financial Instruments not yet adopted by the EU Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and its IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity-account the IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers groups interest in associates.
The parent company financial statements IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements 2011 present information about the entity and not about its group.
IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 Amendments to IAS 32 on Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by Liabilities the directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 on Consolidation for comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected Investment Entities to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with Amendments to IAS 36 on Recoverable Amount Disclosures for NonUK GAAP.
financial Assets Amendments to IAS 38 on Intangible Assets Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting Amendments to IAS 39 on Novation of Derivatives and Continuation policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and of Hedge Accounting estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, Annual Improvements 20102012 Cycle are discussed in note 2.
Annual Improvements 20112013 Cycle a Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued Annual Improvements 20122014 Cycle and applied in the 2014 financial year: The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future IFRS 7 amendments, Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Liabilities disclosures effective for accounting periods beginning group except for additional disclosures.
The amendments to IFRS 7 require entities to disclose information about rights of offset and related Basis of preparation arrangements for financial instruments under an enforceable master The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, netting agreement or similar arrangement.
The adoption of IFRS 7 except for certain financial instruments which have been measured amendments has no material impact on the financial statements of at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied the group except for additional disclosures.
consistently to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement effective for accounting periods The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard aims to improve report as explained in detail on page 36. consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and aligned with IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend to the use of fair value entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRS policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The adoption of IFRS 13 has no material impact on the financial statements of the group except for additional disclosures.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on IAS 19 revised, Employee Benefits effective for accounting periods transactions between group companies are eliminated.
beginning on or after January 1 2013.
The interest cost on pension plan liabilities and expected return on plan assets reported in previous years have been replaced with a net interest amount.
The group has amended the presentation of prior-period comparative amounts to reflect these requirements.
There is no material impact of adopting IAS 19 revised on the profit for any of the years presented.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 78 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued of identifiable net assets.
The consideration paid for the earlier stages of 1 Accounting policies continued a step acquisition, before control passes to the group, is treated as an The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for investment in an associate.
The amount recognised as consideration by the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity b Transactions with non-controlling interests acquired by the group plus contingent consideration should there be any Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated such arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair date of the original business combination and its share of changes in values at acquisition.
On an  basis, the group equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the nonor at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where the group owns a non-controlling interest in the equity share capital To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent of a non-quoted company and does not exercise significant influence, it is consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value of the held as an investment and stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill also and net realisable value.
incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree c Associates and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise acquiree over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation assets acquired.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised as negative and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial goodwill directly in the Income Statement.
statements using the equity method of accounting and are initially If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group reports identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, The groups share of associate post-acquisition profit or losses is recognised or additional asset and liabilities are recognised to reflect new information in the Income Statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the date of the in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of acquisition that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised Comprehensive Income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements as of that date.
are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the groups share of losses in an associate equals its interest in the associate, The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to including any other unsecured receivables, the group does not recognise the date the group obtains complete information about facts and further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is a maximum behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates Partial acquisitions control unaffected are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with in non-controlling interests.
the policies adopted by the group.
Step acquisitions control passes to the group Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at which in the Income Statement.
control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated as if it had been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the controlling interest in the subsidiary.
The fair value of the previously held interest then forms one of the components that is used to calculate goodwill, along with the consideration and the non-controlling interest less the fair value 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 79 Intangible assets 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill Foreign currencies Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration Functional and presentation currency over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries, other than Fantfoot Limited, Centre Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at for Investor Education UK Limited, and Redquince Limited is sterling.
The cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, functional currency of other subsidiaries and associates is the currency of goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have benefited the primary economic environment in which they operate.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill Transactions and balances is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on foreign to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any currency borrowings and derivative instruments, to the extent that they impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and may are used to provide a hedge against the groups equity investments in not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the overseas undertakings, are taken to equity together with the exchange attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the difference arising on the net investment in those undertakings.
All other profit and loss on disposal.
exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement.
Group companies Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the consolidated The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into sterling balance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their balance exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are taken directly to sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the subsidiary.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation are Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the related been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested for cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP in the period of disposal.
before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in Property, plant and equipment determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Internally generated intangible assets depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the groups software Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straightand systems development is recognised only if all of the following line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: conditions are met: An asset is created that can be identified such as software or a Freehold land do not depreciate website : Freehold buildings 2% It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease benefits: and Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Office equipment 11% 33% Internally generated intangible assets are recognised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over the useful lives from the date the asset becomes usable.
Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 80 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Cash and cash equivalents 1 Accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and other Other intangible assets short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment months or less.
of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal For the purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Subsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged so as to write off the Financial assets costs of other intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, using The group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: a straight-line or reducing balance method.
These intangible assets are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, reviewed for impairment as described below.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and the classification of its assets on initial recognition and re-evaluates this impairment losses.
designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets in the following Amortisation categories are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis 12 months: otherwise, they are classified as non-current.
or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the Classification following rates per year: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets Trademarks and brands 5 30 years Customer relationships 1 16 years held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired Databases 1 22 years principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated Licences and software 3 5 years by management.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or Loans and receivables intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of Available-for-sale AFS financial assets an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes of AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which category or not classified in any of the other categories.
there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
NonRecognition and measurement financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffer impairment are reviewed Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All financial Trade and other receivables assets, other than those carried at fair value through profit or loss, are Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
A provision is made and charged to the Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due in accordance to the original terms.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of financial assets section below.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because 1 Accounting policies continued of financial difficulties: or Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially estimate of future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at including: fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and i.
Adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the portfolio: loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period and in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as financial ii.
National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the profit and the assets in the portfolio.
loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
Loans and receivables The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows interest method.
excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying Available-for-sale AFS financial assets amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit AFS financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value where it can and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
AFS equity investments that do not have a quoted a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the measured are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses.
As a practical expedient, the group may measure impairment on Offsetting financial instruments the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or Comprehensive Income.
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases Impairment of financial assets and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a Comprehensive Income.
result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on Financial liabilities the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial Committed borrowings and bank overdrafts assets that can be reliably estimated.
Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, evidence of an impairment loss include: including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: the Income Statement as incurred using the effective interest rate method A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or and are added to the carrying value of the borrowings or overdraft to the principal payments: extent they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender would not otherwise consider: It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 82 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in 1 Accounting policies continued the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement Trade payables and accruals for example when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
Trade payables and accruals are not interest-bearing and are stated at their fair value.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement Derivative financial instruments accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
asset for example fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in All derivative instruments are recorded in the Statement of Financial equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement Position at fair value.
The recognition of gains or losses on derivative of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The group designates When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer certain derivatives as either: meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when commitment fair value hedge : the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
b hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the or Income Statement.
c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment The premium or discount on interest rate instruments is recognised as part hedge.
of net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Interest rate swaps The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current are accounted for on an accruals basis.
asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, Net investment hedge and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less than Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
same way as cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedge Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement, together losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
attributable to the hedged risk.
The group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed asset risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the Income Statement within operating profit.
Changes in the fair value Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
recognised in the Income Statement within finance costs.
Liabilities in respect of acquisition commitments and deferred Cash flow hedge consideration The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated Liabilities for acquisition commitments over the remaining minority interests and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive in subsidiaries and deferred consideration are recorded in the Statement income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective of Financial Position at their estimated discounted present value.
These portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement discounts are unwound and charged to the Income Statement as notional immediately.
interest over the period up to the date of the potential future payment.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Pensions 1 Accounting policies continued Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, Taxation ex-gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions are The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is based on the advice of independent actuaries.
recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
Payments amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged as Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income an expense as they fall due.
Tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of Multi-employer scheme assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally plc.
As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole to the individual entities, are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be the group recognises an expense equal to its contributions payable in available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
the period and does not recognise any unfunded liability of this pension No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings scheme on its balance sheet.
In other words, this scheme is treated as a of foreign subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the defined contribution plan.
reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
Defined benefit plans The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised The group operates the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme, a defined benefit based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively scheme.
The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position in enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in respect of the defined benefit pension plan is the present value of the the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected credit method.
The present Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to on a net basis.
the terms of the related pension obligation.
The actuarial valuations are Provisions obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the Statement probable that economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur.
If material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 84 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Earnings per share 1 Accounting policies continued The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations follow Share-based payments the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
The diluted earnings per The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the exercise equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital Appreciation fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the ordinary shares pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership Trust and Euromoney a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the Employee Share Trust.
number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the end of each period the vesting assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair Exceptional items value of these options updated.
For cash-settled share-based payments a Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being current fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of Revenue the group.
Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who date of publication.
are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a performance of the operating segments.
straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Subscription revenues contains certain items recognised on a cash basis including voting revenues where the amount paid by the customer is determined 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these by a qualitative vote and paid in arrears for services rendered, and financial statements best efforts revenues where the payments for services rendered are The group prepares its group financial statements in accordance with uncertain until received.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the application of which Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income often requires judgements to be made by management when formulating Statement over the period the event is run.
the groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the groups as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Leased assets Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported as allowed by IAS 17 Leases.
results or net asset position of the group should it later be determined that a different choice would have been more appropriate.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded discussed below to be its key judgemental areas and accordingly provides in the period in which they are paid.
an explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit Own shares held by Employees Share Ownership Trust and committee.
Employee Share Trust Transactions of the group-sponsored trusts are included in the group The discussion below should be read in conjunction with the groups financial statements.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the disclosure of IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 1. company are debited direct to equity.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 Acquisition commitments 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these The group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining financial statements continued non-controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS39 Financial Acquisitions Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires the discounted The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business present value of these acquisition commitments to be recognised as a is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and liability on the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding contingent liabilities acquired.
The discounts are unwound as a notional interest Fair value charge to the Income Statement.
Key areas of judgement in calculating Determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the discounted present value of the commitments are the expected future acquired requires managements judgement and often involves the use of cash flows and earnings of the business, the period remaining until the significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect option is exercised and the discount rate.
At September 30 2014 the to future cash flows, recoverability of assets, and unprovided liabilities and discounted present value of these acquisition commitments was 13.4 commitments particularly in relation to tax and VAT.
Intangible assets Share-based payments The group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets The group makes long-term incentive payments to certain employees.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value its fair value can be measured reliably.
determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the expected vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares The measurement of the fair value of intangible assets acquired requires that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair significant management judgement particularly in relation to the expected value of the options are the discount rate, the groups share price volatility, future cash flows from the acquired marketing databases which are dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and expected option lives.
generally based on managements estimate of marketing response rates, customer relationships, trademarks, brands, intellectual property, repeat These assumptions are set out in note 23.
Management regularly performs and well established events.
At September 30 2014 the net book value of a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to intangible assets was 153.2 million 2013: 142.0 million.
vest, which is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
Goodwill The directors regularly reassess the expected vesting period.
A plan that Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than vests earlier than originally estimated results in an acceleration of the fair the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating units to value expense of the plan recognised in the Income Statement at the time which it relates.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net present value the reassessment occurs.
Equally, a plan that vests later than previously are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of the applicable estimated results in a credit to the Income Statement at the date of businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash flows.
held on the Statement of Financial Position at September302014 was 383.9 million 2013: 356.6 million.
The charge for long-term incentive payments for the year ended September 30 2014 is 2.4 million 2013: 2.1 million.
Deferred consideration Defined benefit pension scheme The group often pays for a portion of the equity acquired at a future date.
The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is This deferred consideration is contingent on the future results of the entity recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject acquired and applicable payment multipliers dependent on those results.
to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of The initial amount of the deferred consideration is recognised as a liability the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation in the Statement of Financial Position.
Each period end management rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes assets reassess the amount expected to be paid and any changes to the initial and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note amount are recognised as a finance income or expense in the Income 26.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked Statement.
Significant management judgement is required to determine against similar pension schemes.
the amount of deferred consideration that is likely to be paid, particularly in relation to the future profitability of the acquired business.
At September 30 2014 the discounted present value of deferred consideration was 8.5 million 2013: 11.6 million.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 86 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Treasury 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these Forward contracts financial statements continued The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in Taxation foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation The groups tax expense on profit is the sum of the total current and of the results of foreign subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
The calculation of the groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined subsidiaries, consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as foreign currencies could materially affect the amount of these items in the appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some consolidated financial statements, even if their values have not changed of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow in their original currency.
The group does endeavour to match foreign variances.
currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The group is a multi-national group with tax affairs in many geographical locations.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts is put in place up to 18 of the group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative months forward partially to hedge its US dollar and Euro denominated processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account over an 18 month period.
If management materially underestimates the and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be groups future US dollar or Euro revenues this would lead to too few substantial differences between the tax expense in the Income Statement forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to and tax payments.
swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar or Euro revenues would lead to associated costs The group has certain significant open items in several tax jurisdictions in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
At September 30 2014, the and as a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements fair value of the groups forward contracts was a net asset of 1.1 million in respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation 2013: 1.6 million.
and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could Details of the derivative financial instruments used are set out in note 18 differ from the accounting estimates and therefore affect the groups to the accounts.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of net deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
At September 30 2014, the group had a deferred tax asset of nil 2013: 5.0 million.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 3 Segmental analysis Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting structure.
The group is organised into five business divisions: Research and data: Financial publishing: Business publishing: Conferences and seminars: and Training.
Research and data consists of subscription revenue.
Financial publishing and Business publishing consist primarily of advertising and subscription revenue.
Conferences and seminars consist of both sponsorship income and delegate revenue.
The Training division consists primarily of delegate revenue.
A breakdown of the groups revenue by type is set out below.
In April 2014 the group disposed 100% of its equity share capital in MIS Training Institute Holdings, Inc MIS Training.
As a result segment information from MIS Training has been reclassified as sold closed business and the comparative split of divisional revenues, revenue by type and operating profits have been restated.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns below.
2 Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks and brands, customer relationships and databases note 11.
4 Operating profit 2014 2013 000 000 Revenue 406,559 404,704 Cost of sales 106,057 104,104 Gross profit 300,502 300,600 Distribution costs 3,582 4,320 Administrative expenses 193,583 190,950 Operating profit before associates 103,337 105,330 Administrative expenses include items separately disclosed in exceptional items of 2,630,000 2013: 2,232,000 note 5.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 90 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4 Operating profit continued 2014 2013 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 000 000 Staff costs note 6 156,923 155,862 Intangible amortisation: Acquired intangible amortisation 16,735 15,890 Licences and software 1,962 301 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,908 3,926 Auditors remuneration: Group audit 740 829 Assurance services 115 114 Non-audit 392 166 Property operating lease rentals 7,443 6,910 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 7 Acquisition costs note 5 901 822 Restructuring and other exceptional costs note 5 2,859 1,395 Profit on disposal of businesses and recycled cumulative translation differences note 5 6,834 Impairment of carrying value of associate note 5 444 Negative goodwill note 5 4,449 Foreign exchange loss 1,437 1,234 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2014 2013 000 000 Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the companys annual accounts 390 458 Fees payable for other services to the group: Audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 350 371 Audit services provided to all group companies 740 829 Assurance services: Interim review 115 114 Non-audit services: Taxation compliance services 85 126 Other taxation advisory services 284 37 Other services 23 3 392 166 Total group auditors remuneration 1,247 1,109 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 5 Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2014 2013 000 000 Acquisition costs 901 822 Restructuring and other exceptional costs 2,859 1,395 Profit on disposal of businesses and recycled cumulative translation differences 6,834 Impairment of carrying value of associate 444 Negative goodwill 4,449 2,630 2,232 For the year ended September 30 2014 the group recognised a net exceptional credit of 2,630,000.
This comprised an exceptional credit for the profit on disposal of MIS Training Institute Holdings, Inc. offset by exceptional acquisition costs, restructuring and property costs, and impairment of carrying value of associate.
The acquisition costs of 901,000 are in connection with the acquisitions of Infrastructure Journal and Mining Indaba.
The restructuring and other exceptional costs of 2,859,000 include costs of 1,545,000 for the move of the groups London headquarters and restructuring costs of 1,314,000 from the reorganisation of certain businesses including closure of print products.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax charge of 263,000.
For the year ended September 30 2013 the group recognised a net exceptional credit of 2,232,000.
This comprised an exceptional credit for negative goodwill offset by acquisition, restructuring and other exceptional costs.
The negative goodwill of 4,449,000 arose from the valuation of the intangible assets of Quantitative Techniques QT, acquired for zero consideration.
The acquisition costs of 822,000 are in connection with the acquisitions of TTI Vanguard, Insider Publishing, Centre for Investor Education and QT.
The exceptional restructuring and other costs of 1,395,000 include restructuring costs to integrate the business and assets of QT before the completion date and other restructuring costs across the group.
The groups tax charge included a related tax charge of 372,000.
6 Staff costs i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2014 2013 Average Average By business segment: Research and data 822 827 Financial publishing 385 353 Business publishing 278 273 Conferences and seminars 343 280 Training 75 124 Central 506 467 2,409 2,324 2014 2013 Average Average By geographical location: United Kingdom 990 895 North America 761 767 Rest of World 658 662 2,409 2,324 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 92 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6 Staff costs continued ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2014 2013 000 000 Salaries, wages and incentives 141,131 139,866 Social security costs 10,517 11,392 Pension contributions 2,908 2,504 Long-term incentive expense 2,367 2,100 156,923 155,862 Details of directors remuneration have been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report from pages 46 to 66.
7 Finance income and expense 2014 2013 000 000 Finance income Interest income: Interest receivable from short-term investments 235 233 Net movements in acquisition commitments note 24 1,298 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 13 362 1,546 595 Finance expense Interest expense: Interest payable on committed borrowings 1,349 2,561 Interest payable on loan notes 2 Net interest expense on defined benefit liability note 26 120 67 Net movements in acquisition commitments note 24 2,888 Net movements in acquisition deferred consideration note 24 1,873 4,721 Interest on tax 330 710 3,672 10,949 Net finance costs 2,126 10,354 2014 2013 000 000 Reconciliation of net finance costs in Income Statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance costs in Income Statement 2,126 10,354 Add back: Net movements in acquisition commitments 1,298 2,888 Net movements in acquisition deferred consideration 1,873 4,721 575 7,609 Adjusted net finance costs 1,551 2,745 The reconciliation of net finance costs in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2014 2013 000 000 Current tax expense UK corporation tax expense 6,906 9,732 Foreign tax expense 12,695 12,522 Adjustments in respect of prior years 570 540 19,031 21,714 Deferred tax expense Current year 6,107 1,859 Adjustments in respect of prior years 472 1,338 6,579 521 Total tax expense in Income Statement 25,610 22,235 Effective tax rate 25% 23% The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is set out below: 2014 2013 000 000 Reconciliation of tax expense in Income Statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 25,610 22,235 Add back: Tax on intangible amortisation 4,114 5,592 Tax on exceptional items 263 372 3,851 5,220 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 3,837 4,092 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 98 1,878 112 3,006 Adjusted tax expense 25,722 25,241 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chairmans Statement 116,155 116,527 Adjusted effective tax rate 22% 22% The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The group considers that the resulting adjusted effective tax rate is more representative of its tax payable position, as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 94 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued The actual tax expense for the year is different from 22% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2014 2013 000 000 Profit before tax 101,475 95,260 Tax at 22% 2013: 23.5% 22,325 22,386 Factors affecting tax charge: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in overseas jurisdictions 6,238 2,914 Associate income reported net of tax 73 67 US state taxes 1,075 987 Goodwill and intangibles 63 38 Disallowable expenditure 92 2,629 Other items deductible for tax purposes 3,394 3,607 Tax impact of consortium relief 618 657 Deferred tax credit arising from changes in tax laws 510 Adjustments in respect of prior years 98 1,878 Total tax expense for the year 25,610 22,235 In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income and equity: Other comprehensive income Equity 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Current tax 2,690 2,058 Deferred tax note 21 495 197 996 551 495 197 1,694 2,609 9 Dividends 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in period Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2013 of 15.75p 2012: 14.75p 19,917 18,342 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2014 of 7.00p 2013: 7.00p 8,969 8,827 28,886 27,169 Employee share trust dividend 115 13 28,771 27,156 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 20,501 19,917 Employee share trust dividend 289 9 20,212 19,908 The proposed final dividend of 16.00p 2013: 15.75p is subject to approval at the AGM on January 29 2015 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 10 Earnings per share 2014 2013 000 000 Basic earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 75,264 72,623 Acquired intangible amortisation 16,735 15,890 Exceptional items 2,630 2,232 Net movements in acquisition commitments 1,298 2,888 Net movements in acquisition deferred consideration 1,873 4,721 Tax on the above adjustments 3,851 5,220 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 3,837 4,092 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 98 1,878 Adjusted earnings 89,832 90,884 2014 2014 2013 2013 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted earnings earnings earnings earnings per share per share per share per share Number Number Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 127,506 127,506 125,532 125,532 Shares held by the employee share trusts 990 990 59 59 Weighted average number of shares 126,516 126,516 125,473 125,473 Effect of dilutive share options 720 2,605 Diluted weighted average number of shares 127,236 128,078 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence per share per share per share per share Basic earnings per share 59.49 59.49 57.88 57.88 Effect of dilutive share options 0.34 1.18 Diluted earnings per share 59.15 56.70 Effect of acquired intangible amortisation 13.23 13.15 12.66 12.41 Effect of exceptional items 2.08 2.07 1.78 1.74 Net movements in acquisition commitments 1.03 1.02 2.30 2.25 Net movements in acquisition deferred consideration 1.48 1.47 3.76 3.69 Effect of tax on the above adjustments 3.04 3.02 4.15 4.07 Effect of tax on US goodwill amortisation 3.03 3.02 3.26 3.19 Effect of tax adjustments in respect of prior years 0.08 0.08 1.50 1.47 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share 71.00 70.60 72.43 70.96 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it necessary in order to give an indication of the underlying trading performance.
All of the above earnings per share figures relate to continuing operations.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 96 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
During the year the goodwill in respect of each of the above businesses was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
The methodology applied to the value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: forecasts by business based on pre-tax cash flows for the next four years derived from approved 2014 budgets.
Management believe these budgets to be reasonably achievable: subsequent cash flows for one additional year increased in line with growth expectations of the applicable business: the pre-tax discount rates between 9.5% and 11.5%, derived from benchmark companies weighted average cost of capital WACC of 9.5% adjusted for risks specific to the nature of CGUs and risks included within the cash flows themselves: long-term nominal growth rate of 0%.
Further disclosures in accordance with IAS 36 are provided where the group holds an individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is significant, which the group considers to be 15% of the total net book value, in comparison with the groups total carrying value of goodwill.
The only significant item of goodwill included in the net book value above relate to BCA.
Using the above methodology and a pre-tax discount rate of 9.5% the recoverable amount exceeded the total carrying value by 155.3million.
For this business the directors performed a sensitivity analysis on the total carrying value of the CGU.
For the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying value the discount rate would need to be increased by 10.3% or the long-term growth rate reduced by 28.9%.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 98 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 13 Investments Investments Investments in associated in associated undertakings undertakings 2014 2013 000 000 At October 1 702 735 Impairment 444 Disposals 127 Fair value adjustment 49 Share of profits after tax retained 264 284 Dividends 323 268 At September 30 72 702 Associated undertakings The associated undertaking at September 30 2014 was Capital NET Limited, whose principal activity is the provision of electronic database services.
The group has a 48.4% 2013: 48.4% interest in Capital NET Limited.
On June 26 2014, the group acquired the remaining 50% of the equity share capital of GGA Pte.
Limited GG whose sole asset is Global Grain Asia, an event for grain industry professionals in the Asia-Pacific region for 127,000 note 14.
The carrying value of the groups initial 50% equity interest in GG before the business combination amounted to 571,000.
As a result the group recognised an impairment loss of 444,000 2013: nil on its initial 50% equity interest in GG held before the business combination note 5.
The impairment loss is recognised within exceptional items in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2014.
Capital NET Limited does not have a coterminous year end with the group.
The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by Capital NET Limited from its latest available audited accounts at December 31 are set out below: Dec 31 Dec 31 2013 2012 000 000 Total assets 653 749 Total liabilities 195 249 Total revenues 1,824 2,032 Profit after tax 511 722 Assets available for sale The group has a 50% interest in Capital DATA Limited Capital DATA.
The ordinary share capital of Capital DATA is divided into 50 A shares and 50 B shares with the group owning the 50 A shares.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of Capital DATA, the A shares held by the group do not carry entitlement to any share of dividends or other distribution of profits of Capital DATA.
The group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence nor is it involved in the day-to-day running of Capital DATA.
As such the investment in Capital DATA is accounted for as an asset availablefor-sale with a carrying value of nil 2013: nil.
Under a separate licence agreement the group is entitled to 28.2% of Capital DATAs revenues being 5,653,000 in the year 2013: 5,361,000.
At December 31 2013, based on its latest available audited accounts, Capital DATA had 589,000 of issued share capital and reserves December 31 2012: 229,000, and its profit for the year then ended was 761,000 December 31 2012: 708,000.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 100 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Investments continued Details of the company and its principal subsidiary undertakings included in these consolidated financial statements at September 30 2014 are as follows: Proportion Principal activity Country of held and operation incorporation Company Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Investment holding company United Kingdom Direct investments Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing, training and events Jersey Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Canada Limited 57% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Steel First Limited 100% Research and data services United Kingdom Indirect investments Adhesion Group S. A.
100% Events France Adhesion Asia Limited 80% Events Hong Kong BCA Research, Inc. 100% Research and data services Canada BPR Benchmark Limitada 100% Information services Columbia Carlcroft Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education UK Limited 75% Investment holding company United Kingdom Centre for Investor Education Pty Limited 75% Events Australia CEIC Holdings Limited 100% Information services Hong Kong Coaltrans Conferences Limited 99.7% Events United Kingdom EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Canada Limited 43.0% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Charles Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited 99.7% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Global Limited 99.7% Publishing and events United Kingdom Euromoney Holdings US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Events Singapore Euromoney Trading Limited 99.7% Publishing, training and events United Kingdom Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US EIMN LLC 100% Events US Family Office Network Limited 51% Information services United Kingdom GGA Pte.
Limited 100% Events Singapore Glenprint Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Global Commodities Group Sarl 100% Events Switzerland GSCS Benchmarks Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Gulf Publishing Company 100% Publishing US HedgeFund Intelligence Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Insider Publishing Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing and events US Internet Securities, Inc. 100% Information services US Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Ned Davis Research, Inc. 84.5% Research and data services US Redquince Limited 100% Investment holding company United Kingdom Structured Retail Products Limited 99.7% Information services United Kingdom TelCap Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom The Petroleum Economist Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom Tipall Limited 100% Property holding United Kingdom Total Derivatives Limited 99.7% Publishing United Kingdom TTI Technologies LLC 94.6% Events US Associates Capital NET Limited 48.4% Databases United Kingdom All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition to the above, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
Euromoney Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is United Kingdom.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 13 Investments continued For the year ended September 30 2014, the below subsidiary undertakings of the group were exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A of the Companies Act 2006: Company Company registration number Euromoney Canada Limited 01974125 Euromoney Charles Limited 04082590 Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 05885797 Euromoney Partnership LLP 0C363064 Fantfoot Limited 05503274 Internet Securities Limited 02976791 Redquince Limited 05994621 Steel First Limited 04002471 14 Acquisitions and disposals Purchase of new business Infrastructure Journal IJ On October 15 2013 the group acquired 100% of the assets of Infrastructure Journal, a leading information source for the international infrastructure markets, from Top Right Group for a cash consideration of 12,500,000, followed by a further cash payment of 267,000 in January 2014.
The acquisition of IJ is consistent with the groups strategy of investing in online subscription and events businesses which will benefit from its global reach.
The final acquisition accounting is set out below: Book Fair value Final value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 6,404 6,404 Property, plant and equipment 219 219 Trade and other receivables 479 479 Trade and other payables 1,207 1,207 509 6,185 5,676 Net assets acquired 100% 5,676 Goodwill 7,091 Total consideration 12,767 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 12,500 Working capital adjustment 267 12,767 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 12,500 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 12,500 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 102 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions and disposals continued Intangible assets represent a brand of 2,068,000, databases of 2,941,000, and customer relationships of 1,395,000, for which amortisation of 754,000 has been charged in the year.
The brand will be amortised over its useful economic life of 20 years.
The databases and customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of up to ten years.
Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from integrating the acquired operations within the group.
All of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of 367,000, all of which are contracted and are expected to be collectable.
IJ contributed 1,360,000 to the groups revenue, 503,000 to the groups operating profit and 125,000 to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and March 31 2014.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 744,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2014 note 5.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, IJ would have contributed 1,558,000 to the groups revenue and 228,000 to the groups profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and March 31 2014 excluding exceptional costs above.
From April 1 2014 the business was merged with an existing Euromoney business, Project Finance, and the merged business was rebranded IJ Global.
As such it is impossible to disclose the contribution of IJ as a standalone business to the groups revenue and profit for the six months from April 1 to September 30 2014.
Investment in African Mining Indaba Mining Indaba On July 15 2014, the group acquired the trade and certain assets of the mining investment events division of US-based Summit Professional Networks, the principal asset acquired was the largest mining event in emerging markets, Investing in African Mining Indaba, for a cash consideration of 45,617,000 US$78,000,000 offset by a working capital adjustment of 212,000 US$362,000 received in September 2014.
The acquisition of Mining Indaba is consistent with the groups strategy to consolidate and strengthen its position in the global metals and mining sector.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Intangible assets 22,149 22,149 Property, plant and equipment 2 2 Trade and other receivables 1,585 1,585 Trade and other payables 1,974 26 1,948 387 22,173 21,786 Net assets acquired 100% 21,786 Goodwill 23,619 Total consideration 45,405 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 45,617 Working capital adjustment 212 45,405 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 45,617 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 45,617 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 14 Acquisitions and disposals continued Intangible assets represent a brand of 14,513,000, and customer relationships of 7,636,000, for which amortisation of 426,000 has been charged for the period.
The brand will be amortised over its useful life of 20 years.
The customer relationships will be amortised over their useful economic lives of up to eight years.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of 1,359,000, all of which are contracted and are expected to be collectable.
Mining Indaba contributed nil to the groups revenue, 343,000 loss to the groups operating profit and 268,000 loss to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2014.
In addition, acquisition related costs of 151,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2014 note 5.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Mining Indaba would have contributed 10,013,000 to the groups revenue and 5,766,000 to the groups profit before tax for the year excluding exceptional costs above.
Limited GG Singapore On June 26 2014 the group exercised its option to acquire the remaining 50% of the equity share capital of GG Singapore, whose sole asset is Global Grain Asia, an event for grain industry professionals in the Asia-Pacific region, for 127,000.
This acquisition increased the groups equity shareholding to 100%.
The acquisition accounting is set out below and is provisional pending final determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired: Book Fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value 000 000 000 Net assets: Trade and other receivables 6 6 Cash and cash equivalents 243 243 Trade and other payables 117 117 132 132 Net assets acquired 100% 132 Goodwill 122 Total consideration 254 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 127 Fair value of the initial equity interest before acquisition 127 254 Net cash inflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 127 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 243 116 Goodwill arises from the anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from combining the acquired operations within the group.
The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
GG Singapore contributed nil to the groups revenue, 13,000 loss to the groups operating profit and 10,000 loss to the groups profit after tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, GG Singapore would have contributed 127,000 to the groups revenue and 13,000 to the groups profit before tax for the year.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 104 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Acquisitions and disposals continued TTI Technologies LLC TTI Vanguard Insider Publishing IP Centre for Investor Education CIE Quantitative Techniques QT.
During the financial year to September 30 2013, the group acquired TTI Vanguard, IP, CIE and QT.
The fair value of net assets acquired and consideration for the four acquisitions have been finalised and there were no changes since the year ended September 30 2013.
Set up of new business Family Office Network Limited FON On October 1 2013 the group set up a new company, FON, for an initial investment of 165,000.
On the same day, the company issued new ordinary shares, equivalent to 49% of the total equity share capital, to a non-controlling interest for 158,000.
The groups equity shareholding decreased to 51%.
Increase in equity holdings TTI Technologies LLC TTI Vanguard In January 2014 the group acquired 7.4% of the equity of TTI Vanguard for a cash consideration of US$410,000 247,000.
The groups equity shareholding in TTI Vanguard increased to 94.6%.
Structured Retail Products Limited SRP In September 2014 the group purchased 0.76% of the equity share capital of SRP from one of its employees for a cash consideration of 122,000, representing the fair value of 0.76% of the assets at the date of acquisition, increasing the groups effective equity shareholding in SRP to 99.7%.
Sale of business MIS Training Institute Holdings, Inc. MIS Training On April 1 2014 the group sold 100% of its equity share capital in MIS Training for an initial cash consideration of US$11,000,000 6,564,000, offset by a working capital adjustment of US$1,098,000 655,000 paid in April 2014.
At the date of disposal a discounted deferred consideration receivable of US$3,690,000 2,214,000 was recognised.
In September 2014 deferred consideration of US$119,000 73,000 was paid and the remaining discounted deferred consideration is expected to be received in cash between January 2015 and September 2019.
The disposal of MIS Training gave rise to a profit on disposal of 6,834,000, after deducting disposal costs incurred, which was recognised as an exceptional item note 5 in the Income Statement.
The discounted deferred consideration is pre-determined pay-out amounts based on management best estimate of the results of the business for the periods to December 31 2014, December 31 2015 and December 31 2016 and is calculated using the groups WACC at date of disposal.
A sensitivity analysis was conducted and the result can be found in note 24.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 14 Acquisitions and disposals continued The net assets of MIS Training at the date of disposal were as follows: Final fair value 000 Net assets: Goodwill 2,543 Property, plant and equipment 19 Trade and other receivables 1,223 Cash and cash equivalents 19 Trade and other payables 2,669 1,097 Net assets disposed 100% 1,097 Directly attributable costs 674 Recycled cumulative translation differences 482 Profit on disposal note 5 6,834 Total consideration 8,123 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 6,564 Working capital adjustments 655 Deferred consideration 2,214 8,123 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Cash consideration net of working capital adjustments and directly attributable costs 5,326 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances disposed 19 5,345 15 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 63,336 59,712 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 5,226 5,846 Trade receivables net of provision 58,110 53,866 Amounts owed by DMGT group undertakings 485 47 Other debtors 6,684 7,436 Prepayments 8,089 12,153 Accrued income 6,477 5,743 79,845 79,245 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 106 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15 Trade and other receivables continued The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the groups customer base being large and diverse.
Due to this, management believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
As at September 30 2014, trade receivables of 14,087,000 2013: 20,879,000 were past due for which the group has not provided as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 73 days 2013: 73 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Past due less than a month 5,978 10,579 Past due more than a month but less than two months 4,005 4,666 Past due more than two months but less than three months 1,830 2,395 Past due more than three months 2,274 3,239 14,087 20,879 As at September 30 2014, trade receivables of 6,645,000 2013: 6,814,000 were impaired and partially provided for.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Past due less than a month 1,763 1,525 Past due more than a month but less than two months 1,065 1,276 Past due more than two months but less than three months 157 682 Past due more than three months 3,660 3,331 6,645 6,814 Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 At October 1 5,846 6,471 Impairment losses recognised 4,686 2,981 Impairment losses reversed 3,537 2,842 Amounts written off as uncollectible 1,707 750 Balance at disposal of company 30 Exchange differences 32 14 At September 30 5,226 5,846 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 15 Trade and other receivables continued The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the Income Statement.
Prepayments at September 30 2013 included deferred consideration of 4,479,000 paid in advance into escrow following the acquisitions of Insider Publishing 2,400,000 and CIE A$3,600,000, 2,079,000 2014: nil note 24.
The escrows were released in financial year 2014.
16 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 000 000 Trade creditors 2,969 4,046 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 20 44 Other creditors 22,396 22,751 25,385 26,841 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
17 Deferred income 2014 2013 000 000 Deferred subscription income 94,447 90,401 Other deferred income 27,816 26,895 122,263 117,296 18 Financial instruments and risk management 2014 2013 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Forward foreign exchange contracts - cash flow hedge: Current 2,611 1,322 1,736 909 Non-current 179 385 746 2,790 1,707 2,482 909 Financial risk management objectives The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out on page 82 of the accounting policies and page 86 of the key judgemental areas.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 108 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
Further details are set out in the interest rate risk section on page 112.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section page 110.
Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2013.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Net debt to EBITDA ratio The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
As part of the debt covenants under the loan facility provided by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the board has to ensure that net debt to a rolling 12 month EBITDA does not exceed three times.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
The groups loan facility with DMGT was due to mature on December 31 2013.
On November 13 2013, the group signed a US$160million multicurrency replacement facility with DMGT that provides access to funds, should the group require it during the period to April 2016.
The new facility requires the groups net debt to EBITDA to be no more than three times.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Committed loan facility at weighted average exchange rate 45,403 20,858 Loan notes 490 1,028 Total debt 45,893 21,886 Cash and cash equivalents 8,571 11,268 Net debt 37,322 10,618 EBITDA 122,576 123,499 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 0.30 0.09 EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software, adjusted for the timing impact of acquisitions and disposals.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued Categories of financial instruments The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Financial assets Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2,790 2,482 Deferred consideration note 24 1,886 4,479 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 80,327 78,360 85,003 85,321 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,707 909 Acquisition commitments note 24 Level 3 13,365 15,037 Deferred consideration note 24 Level 3 10,389 16,125 Loans and payables 120,138 103,862 145,599 135,933 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than acquisition commitments and deferred consideration which are classified as level 3 page 115.
The directors consider that the carrying value amounts of financial assets and liabilities are equal to their fair value.
The group has entered into a number of netting agreements with the banks to set off same currency cash flows under derivative instruments.
The group has gross derivative assets of 2,790,000 2013: 2,482,000 and gross derivative liabilities of 1,707,000 2013: 909,000 that do not meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32 and are presented separately in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group has entered into an omnibus guarantee and setoff agreement with Lloyds Banking Group plc with a right to setoff outstanding credit balances against cash balances.
Gross assets of 10,338,000 2013: 14,880,000 and gross liabilities of 1,767,000 2013: 3,612,000 under this agreement meet the offsetting criteria of IAS 32, resulting in the presentation of a net cash at bank of 8,571,000 2013: 11,268,000 in the Statement of Financial Position.
i Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2014.
The group has no other material market price risks.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 110 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued ii Foreign exchange rate risk The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar-denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 US dollar 77,011 55,767 138,447 8,702 Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues over an 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
If management materially underestimate the groups future US dollar and Euro denominated revenues, this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar and Euro denominated revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
Impact of 10% strengthening of sterling against US dollar The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a positive number below indicates an increase in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
2014 2013 000 000 Change in profit for the year in Income Statement US$ net assets in UK companies 583 542 Change in equity derivative financial instruments 6,819 6,417 Change in equity external loans and loans to foreign operations 10,350 3,134 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The increase in the loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to a decrease in the working capital asset position.
The increase in equity from 6,417,000 to 6,819,000 from the sensitivity analysis is due to the increase of the value of the derivative financial assets.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from these borrowings providing a partial hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
The change in equity from a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of external loans and loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 10,350,000 2013: 3,134,000.
However, the change in equity is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the subsidiarys Canadian cost base.
As at September 30 2014, the aggregate amount of unrealised gains under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 1,070,000 2013: gains 1,573,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2014, there were no ineffective cash flow hedges in place at the year end 2013: nil.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 112 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued iii Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
As at September 30 2014, due to the low level of debt there were no interest rate swaps outstanding 2013: nil.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 113.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: Profit for the year ended September 30 2014 would decrease or increase by 372,000 2013: 272,000.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and Other equity reserves would not change as a result of the changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
iv Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result have a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued v Liquidity risk The group has significant intercompany borrowings and is an approved borrower under a DMGT US$160 million dedicated multi-currency facility.
In November 2013 the group replaced its US$300 million 185 million facility with the new US$160 million 99 million facility which expires at the end of April 2016.
The facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items and the impact of foreign exchange.
Exceeding the covenant would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenants and prepare detailed cash flow forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2014, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 0.30 times.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group generally has an annual cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items of 100% or more due to much of its subscription, sponsorship and delegate revenue being paid in advance.
However, the groups cash conversion rate was 92% 2013: 88% due to cash payments in respect of the vesting of options under the CAP which were accrued in previous years.
Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2014, the group had 53.0 million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although probably at a higher cost of funding.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2014.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2014 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 2.67 490 45,677 46,167 Acquisition commitments 2,088 11,277 13,365 Deferred consideration 10,389 10,389 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 73,505 466 73,971 86,472 57,420 143,892 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2013 % 000 000 000 Variable rate borrowings 3.56 21,205 21,205 Acquisition commitments 539 14,498 15,037 Deferred consideration 7,040 9,085 16,125 Non-interest bearing liabilities trade and other payables, and accruals 82,657 82,657 111,441 23,583 135,024 At September 30 2014, 37,782,000 2013: 20,177,000 of borrowings were designated in US dollars with the remainder in sterling.
The average rate of interest paid on the debt was 3.42% 2013: 5.68%.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 114 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued The following table details the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly short-term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2014 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank 1.65 8,571 8,571 Deferred consideration 354 1,532 1,886 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 71,756 71,756 80,681 1,532 82,213 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 13 years Total 2013 % 000 000 000 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short term deposits 1.27 11,268 11,268 Deferred consideration 4,479 4,479 Non-interest bearing assets trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 67,092 67,092 82,839 82,839 The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years Total 2014 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,463 14,515 65,983 23,426 111,387 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,085 14,001 65,235 23,445 109,766 378 514 748 19 1,621 Less than 13 3 months 15 1 month months to 1 year years Total 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,033 14,668 64,544 25,442 111,687 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,074 14,712 63,424 24,538 109,748 41 44 1,120 904 1,939 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 18 Financial instruments and risk management continued Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: Level 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Level 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
The model used also reflects the credit risk of the various counterparties.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: and Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Level 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2014 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups acquisition commitments which are classified as level 3.
Other financial instruments not recorded at fair value The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
Such financial assets and financial liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, receivables, prepayments, accrued income, payables and loans.
19 Loans 2014 2013 000 000 Loan notes current liabilities 490 1,028 Committed loan facility current liabilities 20,177 Committed loan facility non-current liabilities 45,677 45,677 20,177 Loan notes Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
At least 20 business days written notice prior to the redemption date is required.
During the year ended September 30 2014 538,000 2013: 199,000 of these loan notes were redeemed.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 116 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19 Loans continued Committed loan facility The groups debt is provided through a dedicated multi-currency borrowing facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
In November 2013 the group replaced its US$300 million 185 million facility with a new US$160 million 99 million facility which expires at the end of April 2016.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.35% and 2.35% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than three times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Exceeding the amount would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenant and prepare detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2014, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 0.30 times and the committed undrawn facility available to the group was 53.0 million.
In the absence of any significant acquisitions, the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance before the facility expires in April 2016.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experiences funding difficulties themselves.
20 Provisions Onerous lease Other Group provision provisions total 000 000 000 At October 1 2013 1,673 4,537 6,210 Provision in the year 741 679 1,420 Used in the year 469 2,277 2,746 Exchange differences 16 16 At September 30 2014 1,929 2,939 4,868 Maturity profile of provisions: 2014 2013 000 000 Within one year included in current liabilities 2,164 3,974 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 463 417 Between two and five years included in non-current liabilities 2,241 1,819 4,868 6,210 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
Other provisions The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 21 Deferred taxation The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2014 comprised: Other Income comprehensive Exchange 2013 statement income Equity differences 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 29,749 321 823 119 28,724 Tax losses 3,594 1,444 20 2,130 Financial instruments 351 36 315 Other short-term temporary differences 14,683 5,456 459 1,819 59 7,808 Deferred tax 11,823 6,579 495 996 198 19,101 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 5,015 Deferred tax liabilities 16,838 19,101 11,823 19,101 Other Income comprehensive Exchange 2013 statement income Equity differences 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 Other short-term temporary differences: Share-based payments 5,725 2,936 1,819 20 950 Pension deficit 576 79 459 956 Accelerated capital allowances 584 85 669 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions 7,798 2,526 39 5,233 14,683 5,456 459 1,819 59 7,808 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2014 a deferred tax asset of 2,130,000 2013: 3,594,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2014 and 2029.
The directors are of the opinion, that based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 180,975,000 2013: 153,233,000 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2014 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 118 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22 Called up share capital 2014 2013 000 000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 128,133,417 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2013: 126,457,324 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 320 316 During the year, 1,676,093 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2013: 2,107,793 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 4,191 2013: 5,270 were issued following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 306,472 2013: 2,228,590.
23 Share-based payments The groups long-term incentive expense at September 30 comprised: 2014 2013 000 000 Equity-settled options SAYE 144 96 CAP 2010 165 971 CAP 2014 2,057 2,036 1,067 Cash-settled options CAP 2010 183 971 CAP 2014 466 Internet Securities, Inc. 7 Structured Retail Products Limited 48 55 331 1,033 2,367 2,100 The total carrying value of cash-settled options at September 30 included in the Statement of Financial Position is: 2014 2013 000 000 Current liabilities 147 7,435 Non-current liabilities 466 613 7,435 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 23 Share-based payments continued Equity-settled options The options set out below are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total charge recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 2,036,000, 86% of the groups long-term incentive expense 2013: charge 1,067,000, 51%.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 120 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
1 The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Options granted trued up relate to the adjustments to those that were likely to vest in February 14 2013 under the third tranche of the CAP 2004 and the first and second tranche of CAP 2010 following the achievement of the additional performance test.
The number of options granted was provisional and required a true up to reflect adjustments of the individual businesses profits during the period to December 31 2012 and 2013 as required by the Remuneration Committee.
Cash-settled options The group has liabilities in respect of two share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based Payments as cash-settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 and the CAP 2014 scheme.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 23 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes The company has three share option schemes for which an IFRS 2 Share-based Payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 and 58.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
Save as You Earn SAYE options SAYE 13 14 15 December 20 December 12 December 22 Date of grant 2011 2012 2013 Market value at date of grant p 621 798 1,146 Option price p 497 639 917 Option life years 3.5 3.5 3.5 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 497 639 917 Risk-free rate 0.53% 0.53% 0.53% Dividend yield 4.30% 2.31% 2.50% Volatility 35% 27% 22% Fair value per option 1.54 1.93 2.42 The SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of three years.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The CAP options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 122 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Share-based payments continued The number of CSOP 2010 and CSOP 2014 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010 and CAP 2014 respectively.
The CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP award.
The CSOP 2010 and CSOP 2014 options have an exercise price 1 of 6.03 and 11.16 respectively, which will be satisfied by a funding award mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25 pence CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of vesting.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2010 and the CAP 2010, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan.
1 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Exercise price excludes the effect of the funding award.
24 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration The group is party to contingent consideration arrangements in the form of both acquisition commitments and deferred consideration payments.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments requires the group to recognise the discounted present value of the contingent consideration.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses to assess the impact on the fair value of the contingent consideration.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 At October 1 15,037 7,868 11,646 77 Additions from acquisitions during the year 4,404 12,177 Reduction from disposals during the year 2,214 Net movements in finance income and expense during the year note 7 1,298 2,888 1,873 4,721 Exercise of commitments 247 82 Paid during the year 111 2,738 5,329 Exchange differences to reserves 16 41 64 At September 30 13,365 15,037 8,503 11,646 Exchange differences to reserves were recorded within net exchange differences on translation of net investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Reconciliation of finance income and expense note 7 : Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Fair value adjustment 2,682 1,619 800 3,887 Imputed interest 1,384 1,269 1,073 834 Net movements in finance income and expense during the year 1,298 2,888 1,873 4,721 Unrealised income expense included in net movements during the year 2,485 1,641 753 3,887 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 123 24 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration continued Maturity profile of contingent consideration: Acquisition commitments Deferred consideration 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 Assets Prepayments included in trade and other receivables 4,479 Within one year included in current assets 354 In more than one year included in non-current assets 1,532 1,886 4,479 Liabilities Within one year included in current liabilities 2,088 539 10,389 7,040 In more than one year included in non-current liabilities 11,277 14,498 9,085 13,365 15,037 10,389 16,125 13,365 15,037 8,503 11,646 The prepayments in 2013 represent deferred consideration paid in advance into escrow following the acquisitions of Insider Publishing 2,400,000 and CIE A$3,600,000, 2,079,000.
There is a deferred tax asset of 40,000 2013: 168,000 relating to the acquisition commitments.
The value of the acquisition commitments and deferred consideration is subject to a number of assumptions.
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that the group could be required to make under the acquisition contingent consideration arrangements is as follows: 2014 2013 Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 NDR 37,404 37,445 Insider Publishing 11,653 16,601 TTI Vanguard 4,026 4,284 CIE 5,582 11,086 58,665 69,416 The potential undiscounted amount of all future receipts that the group could receive under the disposal contingent consideration arrangement is as follows: 2014 2013 Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum 000 000 000 000 MIS Training 3,466 The discounted acquisition commitment and deferred consideration are based on pre-determined multiples of future profits of the businesses, and have been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available performance forecasts.
The directors derive their estimates from internal business plans and financial due diligence.
At September 30 2014, the weighted average growth rates used in estimating the expected profits range was 5%.
A one percentage point increase or decrease in growth rate in estimating the expected profits results in the acquisition commitment and deferred consideration liability at September 30 2014 increasing or decreasing by 186,000 and 255,000 respectively with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2014 charged to the Income Statement in future periods.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 124 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25 Operating lease commitments At September 30 the group had committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2014 2013 000 000 Within one year 9,804 7,616 Between two and five years 21,558 15,578 After five years 26,810 5,548 58,172 28,742 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2014 2013 000 000 Within one year 1,195 1,196 Between two and five years 2,646 2,649 3,841 3,845 26 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: Euromoney PensionSaver, Euromoney Pension Plan, the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT but is accounted for in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme.
In compliance with legislation the group operates a defined contribution plan, Euromoney PensionSaver, into which relevant employees are automatically enrolled.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2014 2013 000 000 Euromoney Pension Plan PensionSaver 1,780 1,238 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 15 16 Private schemes 967 1,101 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 90 88 2,852 2,443 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 125 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Euromoney PensionSaver and Euromoney Pension Plan Euromoney PensionSaver is a group personal pension plan and is the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
Employees are able to contribute a minimum of 2% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
The Euromoney Pension Plan is a part of the DMGT Pension Trust, an umbrella trust under which DMGT UK trust-based defined contribution plans are held.
The benefits for all members of this scheme are being transferred to individual policies held in the members own name.
Insured death benefits previously held under this trust have been transferred to a new trust-based arrangement specifically for life assurance purposes.
When the process of transferring out the remaining assets of the Euromoney Pension plan has been completed the plan will be wound up.
Assets of both plans are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of both plans is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
The plans assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
Private schemes Institutional Investor LLC contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 50% of salary maximum of US$52,000 a year with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 6% of salary.
Harmsworth Pension Scheme The Harmsworth Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT.
The scheme is closed to new entrants.
Existing members still in employment can continue to accrue benefits in the scheme on a cash balance basis, with members building up a retirement account that they can use to buy an annuity from an insurance company at retirement.
Full actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
As a result of the valuations of the main schemes as at March 31 2013, DMGT makes annual contributions of 12% or 18% of members basic pay depending on membership section.
In addition, in accordance with agreed recovery plans, DMGT made payments of 33.8 million in the year to September 30 2014.
In February 2014 DMGT agreed with the trustees that should it continue its share buy-back programme it would make payments to the schemes amounting to 20% of the value of shares bought back.
Contributions of 4.6 million relating to this agreement were made in the year to September 30 2014.
DMGT enabled the trustee of the scheme to acquire a beneficial interest in a Limited Partnership investment vehicle LP.
The LP was designed to facilitate payment of part of the deficit funding payments described above over a period of 15 years to 2026.
In addition, the LP is required to make a final payment to the scheme of 150 million or the funding deficit within the scheme on an ongoing actuarial valuation basis at the end of the 15 year period if this is less.
For funding purposes, the interest held by the trustee in the LP is treated as an asset of the scheme and reduces the actuarial deficit within the scheme.
However, under IAS 19 Employee Benefits the LP is not included as an asset of the scheme and therefore is not included in the calculation of the deficit.
The group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme.
The scheme is operated on an aggregate basis with no segregation of the assets to individual participating employers and, therefore, the same contribution rate is charged to all participating employers i. e. the contribution rate charged to each employer is affected by the experience of the schemes as a whole.
The scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme by the group.
This means that the pension charge reported in these financial statements is the same as the cash contributions due in the period.
The groups pension charge for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for the year ended September 30 2014 was 90,000 2013: 88,000.
The expected cash contribution for the year to September 30 2015 is 90,000.
There are seven active Euromoney members in the scheme, out of a total of 808 active members.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 126 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued DMGT is required to account for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme under IAS 19.
The IAS 19 disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts of DMGT have been based on the formal valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2013, and adjusted to September 30 2014 taking account of membership data at that date.
The calculations are adjusted to allow for the assumptions and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19.
These showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 1,820.5 million 2013: 1,646.3 million and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 90.0% 2013: 89.6% of the benefits that had accrued to members also calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
Defined benefit scheme Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme The company operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS, a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new entrants.
A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position is shown in the following table: 2014 2013 000 000 Present value of defined benefit obligation 36,218 32,702 Fair value of plan assets 31,431 29,819 Deficit reported in the Statement of Financial Position 4,787 2,883 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 956,000 2013: asset 576,000.
The movements in the defined benefit liability over the year is as follows: Present Net defined value of Fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2014 2014 2014 2014 000 000 000 At September 30 2013 32,702 29,819 2,883 Current service cost 55 55 Interest expense income 1,380 1,260 120 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 1,435 1,260 175 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 1,363 1,363 Loss from changes in demographic assumptions 774 774 Loss from changes in financial assumptions 3,184 3,184 Experience gain 298 298 Total losses gains recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 3,660 1,363 2,297 Contributions employers 568 568 Contributions plan participants 12 12 Payments from the plans benefit payments 1,591 1,591 At September 30 2014 36,218 31,431 4,787 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 127 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Present Net defined value of Fair value of benefit obligation plan assets liability 2013 2013 2013 2013 000 000 000 At September 30 2012 31,776 27,019 4,757 Current service cost 61 61 Interest expense income 1,302 1,235 67 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 1,363 1,235 128 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest expense income 1,607 1,607 Annuity surplus refund 30 30 Gain from changes in financial assumptions 135 135 Experience loss 339 339 Total losses gains recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income 204 1,637 1,433 Contributions employers 569 569 Contributions plan participants 12 12 Payments from the plans benefit payments 653 653 At September 30 2013 32,702 29,819 2,883 The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2013 adjusted to September 30 2014 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted are as follows: 2014 2013 Discount rate 3.8% p. a.
Pension increase in deferment 3.3% p. a.
Pension increases in payment: Pensions earned from June 1 2002 to June 30 2006 3.3% p. a.
Pensions earned from July 1 2006 2.5% p. a.
The discount rate for scheme liabilities reflects yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
Assumed life expectancy in years, on retirement at 62 2014 2013 Retiring at the end of the reporting period: Males 26.3 25.9 Females 28.6 28.0 Retiring 20 years after the end of the reporting period: Males 29.6 28.1 Females 31.9 29.3 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 128 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The sensitivity of the defined obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is: Change in Change in Assumption assumption liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by 2.0% Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% Increase by 0.1% Rate of salary growth Increase by 0.25% Increase by 0.1% Life expectancy Increase by one year Increase by 3.2% The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice it is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions has been estimated by projecting the results of the last full actuarial valuation as at June 1 2013 forward to September 30 2014.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
The major categories and fair values of plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Equities 9,117 7,812 Bonds 19,977 17,981 With profits policy 2,050 2,863 Cash and cash equivalents 287 1,163 31,431 29,819 All the assets listed above excluding cash and cash equivalents have a quoted market price in an active market.
The assets do not include any of the groups own financial instruments nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the group.
Through the MBPS, the group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The actual investment strategy adopted by the trustees is not to be fully invested in corporate bonds and holds a significant proportion of equities which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term while providing volatility and risk in the short term.
As the plans mature, the group tends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value in the plans bond holdings.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 129 26 Retirement benefit schemes continued Inflation risk A significant proportion of the defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the plans assets are either unaffected by inflation or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also decrease the deficit.
Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
An increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plans liabilities.
Life expectancy The present value of the defined pension plan liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment.
An increase in life expectancy will increase the plans liabilities.
A full actuarial valuation of the defined benefit scheme is carried out triennially by the Scheme Actuary.
The latest valuation of the MBPS was completed as at June 1 2013.
As a result of the valuation, the company agreed to make annual contributions of 38.9% per annum of pensionable salaries, plus 42,400 per month to the scheme.
The next triennial is due to be completed as at June 1 2016.
The group considers that the contributions set at the last valuation date are sufficient to eliminate the deficit and that regular contributions, which are based on service costs, will not increase significantly.
The group expects to contribute approximately 509,000 2013: expected contribution in 2014 of 509,000 to the MBPS during the 2015 financial year.
The average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the year is approximately 21 years 2013: 21 years.
Expected maturity analysis of discounted pension benefits: Term to retirement Within Between Between Over Pensioners 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Proportion of total liabilities funding basis 55.7% 0.6% 5.0% 8.0% 30.7% 27 Contingent liabilities Claims in Malaysia Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgit 82.6 million 15,528,000.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 130 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued continued 28 Related party transactions The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i.
The group had borrowings under a US$160 million multi-currency facility with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT group company, as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 US$000 000 US$000 000 Amounts owing under US$ facility at September 30 62,486 38,543 34,782 21,478 Amounts owing under GBP facility at September 30 7,895 Amounts due under current account facility at September 30 1,234 761 2,108 1,301 45,677 20,177 Fees on the available facility for the year 417 856 ii.
During the year the group expensed services provided by DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2014 2013 000 000 Services expensed 503 424 iii.
Last year the group paid interest to DMGH and related companies in respect of interest rate swaps as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 US$000 000 US$000 000 US$ interest paid 963 617 GBP interest paid 50 iv.
During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts payable 1,626 1,971 Tax losses with tax value 2,168 2,628 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 387 23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 Group Accounts Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report and Accounts 2014 131 28 Related party transactions continued v. During the year DMGT group companies surrendered tax losses to Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules: 2014 2013 000 000 Amounts payable 226 565 Tax losses with tax value 302 754 Amounts owed by DMGT group at September 30 226 473 vi.
NF Osborn serves as an advisor to the boards of both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received a combined fee of US$23,638 2013: US$45,000.
He no longer serves on the management board of A&N International Media Limited and has not received a fee in the current year 2013: 25,000. vii.
During the year the group received dividends from its associate undertakings: 2014 2013 000 000 Capital NET Limited 291 268 GGA Pte.
The directors who served during the year received dividends of 199,000 2013: 230,000 in respect of ordinary shares held in the company.
The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
Key management compensation 2014 2013 000 000 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 13,119 12,791 Non-executive directors fees 223 204 Post-employment benefits 268 227 Other long-term benefits all share-based 4,181 13,610 17,403 Of which: Executive directors 8,977 11,966 Non-executive directors 223 204 Divisional directors 4,410 5,233 13,610 17,403 Details of the remuneration of directors is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
23612.04 - 17 December 2014 12:23 PM - Proof 8 132 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29 Events after the balance sheet date Dividend The directors propose a final dividend of 16.00p per share 2013: 15.75p totalling 20,212,000 2013: 19,908,000 for the year ended September302014.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the AGM to be held on January 29 2015.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September302015.
During 2014, a final dividend of 15.75p 2013: 14.75p per share totalling 19,917,000 2013: 18,342,000 was paid in respect of the dividend declared for the year ended September 30 2013.
Investment Dealogic New Dealogic On November 5 2014, the group announced it will be acquiring 15.5% equity share capital in New Dealogic, a company incorporated by the Carlyle Group, for US$59,200,000.
The investment is funded through the sale of the groups investment in Capital DATA Limited and Capital NET Limited for a consideration of US$85,000,000, settled by US$59,200,000 of ordinary shares in New Dealogic, US$4,600,000 in cash and US$21,200,000 of zerocoupon redeemable preference shares in New Dealogic.
The deal is set for completion by the end of December 2014.
As such, the additional IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period disclosures are not provided.
Sale of business On October 31 2014, the group completed the sale of its newsletter publications and website services titled Compliance Intelligence, Fund Director Intelligence, Fund Industry Intelligence, and Real Estate Finance Intelligence to Pageant Media Limited for an initial cash consideration of US$150,000, royalty consideration receivable of up to US$800,000 over a 24 month period from the completion date, and a 50% share in the net profits from the 2015 Fund Industry Intelligence Awards to be held in March 2015.
The additional IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period disclosures are not provided because the initial accounting for the disposal is incomplete at the time this report is authorised for issue.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
30 Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party The directors regard the ultimate parent undertaking as Rothermere Continuation Limited, which is incorporated in Bermuda.
The ultimate controlling party is The Viscount Rothermere.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of its report and accounts are available from: The Company Secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
