Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Terms and Abbreviations Beam Coke battery Flat products or Flat-rolled A structural element.
Beams are A group of coke ovens operating as a unit and steel products characterised by their profile the shape of connected by common walls Include commodity plate, specialty plate and their cross-section.
One of the most common other products in flat shape such as sheet, types of steel beam is the I-beam, also known Coking coal strip and tin plate as H-beam, or W-beam wide-flange beam, or Highly volatile coal used to manufacture coke a universal beam column.
Beams are widely Greenfield used in the construction industry and are Concentrate The development or exploration of a new available in various standard sizes, e. g. 40-k project not previously examined A product resulting from iron ore coal beam, 60Sh beam, 70Sh beam as mentioned enrichment, with a high grade of extracted in this report mineral Grinding balls Balls used to grind material by impact and Billet Construction products pressure A usually square, semi-finished steel product Include beams, channels, angles, rebars, wire obtained by continuous casting or rolling of rods, wire and other goods Head-hardened rails blooms.
Sections, rails, wire rod and other High strength rails with head hardened by rolled products are made from billets Converter heat treatment A type of furnace that uses pure oxygen in the Blast furnace Heat-treatment process of producing steel from cast iron or The blast furnace is the classic production dry mix A group of industrial and metalworking unit to reduce iron ore to molten iron, known processes used to alter the physical, and as hot metal.
It operates as a counter-current Continuous casting machine sometimes chemical, properties of a material shaft system, where iron ore and coke is Process whereby molten metal is solidified charged at the top.
While this charge into a semi-finished billet, bloom, or slab for Iron ore descends towards the bottom, ascending subsequent rolling in the finishing mills Chemical compounds of iron with other carbon containing gases and coke reduces elements, mainly oxygen, silicon, sulphur or the iron ore to liquid iron.
To increase Crude steel carbon.
Only extremely pure rich iron-oxygen efficiency and productivity, hot air often compounds are used for steelmaking enriched with oxygen is blown into the Steel in its solidified state directly after bottom of the blast furnace.
This is then further processed by ISO 14001 coke, coal or other carbon containing rolling or other treatments, which can change materials are sometimes injected with this its properties The International Standardisation hot air Organisations standard for environmental Debottlenecking management systems By-product Increasing capacity of a supply or production A secondary product which results from a chain through the modification of existing ISO 9001:2008 manufacturing process or chemical reaction equipment or infrastructure to improve The International Standardisation Capital expenditure efficiency Organisations standard for a quality management system Capex Deposit JORC Code Capital expenditure An area of coal resources or reserves identified by surface mapping, drilling or The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves development Committee, which is widely accepted as a CFR standard for professional reporting of Mineral Cost and freight, the seller must pay the Electric arc furnace Resources and Ore Reserves costs and freight to bring the goods to the A furnace used in the steelmaking process port of destination.
However, risk is which heats charged material via an electric Kt transferred to the buyer once the goods are arc Thousand tonnes loaded on the vessel.
Insurance for the goods is not included Feasibility study Ladle furnace A comprehensive engineering estimate of all The secondary metallurgy vessel used Channel costs, revenues, equipment requirements and between steelmaking and casting operations U-shaped section for construction production levels likely to be achieved if a to allow the composition of molten steel to be mine is developed.
The study is used to brought to the required customer Coal washing define the technical and economic viability of specification The process of removing mineral matter from a project and to support the search for project coal usually through density separation, for financing Lean coarser coal and using surface chemistry for Lean is philosophy of managing the business finer particles Finished products that is based on a set of principles that Products that have completed the define the way of work Coke manufacturing process but have not yet been A product made by baking coal without oxygen sold or distributed to the end user at high temperatures.
Unwanted gases are driven out of the coal.
The unwanted gases can be used as fuels or processed further to recover valuable chemicals.
The resulting material coke has a strong porous structure which makes it ideal for use in a blast furnace EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 207 Additional Information Terms and Abbreviations continued Long products Railway products Slag Include bars, rods and structural products Include rails, rail fasteners, wheels, tyres and Slag is a byproduct generated when nonthat are long rather than flat and are other goods for the railway sector ferrous substances in iron ore, limestone and produced from blooms or billets coke are separated from the hot metal in metallurgical production.
Slag is used in Rebar cement and fertiliser production as well as for Longwall Reinforcing bar, a commodity grade steel base course material in road construction An underground mining process in which the used to strengthen concrete in highway and coal face is dug out by a shearer and building construction.
Rebar A500SP is a type Steam coal transported above ground by conveyors of reinforcing bar that allows for a reduction in the metallic component of reinforced All other types of hard coal not classified as concrete, thereby significantly lowering coking coal.
Coal of this type is also LTIFR construction costs commonly referred to as thermal coal Lost time injury frequency rate, which represents the number of lost time injuries 1 Rolled steel products Tailings day or more of absence divided by the total number of hours worked expressed inmillions Products finished in a rolling mill: these Also called mine dumps, are the materials left of hours include bars, rods, plate, beams etc over after the process of separating the valuable content from the uneconomic remainder gangue of an ore.
These materials Lumpy ore Rolling mill can be reprocessed using new methods to Iron ore between 6mm and 30mm in size.
A machine which converts semi-finished steel recover additional minerals Lump is preferred in the blast furnace as its into finished steel products by passing them particle size allows oxygen to circulate around through sets of rotating cylinders which form Tubular products the raw materials and melt them efficiently the steel into finished products Include large diameter line pipes, ERW pipes and casings, seamless pipes and other Mt SG&A tubular products Million tonnes Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Vanadium Mtpa Saleable products A grey metal that is normally used as an Million tonnes per annum Products produced by EVRAZ mines or steel alloying agent for iron and steel.
It is also mills which are suitable for sale to third used to strengthen titanium based alloys parties Open pit mine A mine working or excavation open to the Vanadium pentoxide Self-coverage surface where material is not replaced into The chemical compound with the formula the mined out areas The raw material requirement of EVRAZs V O : this orange solid is the most important steelmaking facilities fulfilled by EVRAZ 2 5 compound of vanadium.
Upon heating, it owned mines OCTG pipe reversibly loses oxygen Oilfield Casing and Tubing Goods or Oil Scrap Country Tubular Goods pipes used in the oil Vanadium slag industry Iron containing recyclable materials mainly Vanadium slag produced from pig iron in the industrial or household waste that is converter shop and used as a raw material by generally remelted and processed into new Pellet producers of ferroalloys and vanadium steel An enriched form of iron ore shaped into products small balls or pellets.
Pellets are used as raw Semi-finished products material in the steel making process The initial product forms in the steel making process including slabs, blooms, billets and Pig iron pipe blanks that are further processed into The solidified iron produced from a blast more finished products such as beams, bars, furnace used for steel production.
In liquid sheets, tubing, etc form, pig iron is known as hot metal Sinter Pipe blank An iron rich clinker formed by heating iron ore A flat sheet of metal, a semi-finished product, fines and coke in a sinter line.
The materials, sold to pipemakers to manufacture pipes in pellet form, combine efficiently in the blast furnace and allow for more consistent and Plate controllable iron manufacture A long thin square shaped construction element made from slabs Slab A common type of semi-finished steel product Pulverised coal injection PCI which can be further rolled into sheet and A cost-reducing technique in iron-making, plate products where cheaper coal is prepared to replace normal coking coal in the blast furnace.
The coal is pulverised into very small particles before injection into the furnace 208 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 A Ad ddi diti tio on na all I In nf fo or rm ma ati tio on n C Co on nt ta ac ct t D fide et ta ails ils Registered Name and Number Unsolicited telephone calls EVRAZ plc Company No.
07784342 and correspondence Shareholders are advised to be wary of any Registered Office unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, Company.
These are typically from overseasLondon EC4A 3AE based brokers who target US or UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often Directors turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
Alexander Abramov These operations are commonly known as Duncan Baxter boiler rooms and the brokers can be very Alexander Frolov persistent and extremely persuasive.
Karl Gruber Alexander Izosimov If you receive any unsolicited Sir Michael Peat investment advice: Olga Pokrovskaya Terry Robinson Make sure you get the correct name of the Eugene Shvidler person and organisation.
Eugene Tenenbaum Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting Secretary www.
uk fsaregister and contacting TMF Corporate Administration the firm using the details on the register.
Services Limited Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting Investor Relations www.
Tel: London: 44 0 207 832 8990 If the calls persist, hang up.
com Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in Auditors Company mailings.
Ernst & Young LLP Electronic shareholder Solicitors communications Linklaters LLP EVRAZ uses its website www.
com as its primary means of communication with its shareholders provided that the shareholder Registrars has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that For information about proxy voting, dividends communications may be sent or supplied in and to report changes in personal details, that manner in accordance with the shareholders should contact the Companies Act 2006.
Companys registrar: Electronic communications allow Computershare Investor Services PLC shareholders to access information instantly The Pavilions as well as helping EVRAZ reduce its costs Bridgwater Road and its impact on the environment.
Bristol BS13 8AE Shareholders can sign up for electronic United Kingdom communications via Computershares Tel: 44 0 870 873 5848 Investor Centre website at Fax 44 0 870 703 6101 www.
co. uk that have consented or are deemed to have consented to electronic communications can revoke their consent at any time by contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare.
