Business Review continued STEEL, North America segment Operational performance EVRAZs assets in North America Output of crude steel 000 tonnes EVRAZ Red Deer 1,980 EVRAZ Camrose EVRAZ Calgary EVRAZ Regina Output of steel products 000 tonnes EVRAZ Portland EVRAZ North America 2,557 Headquarters EVRAZ Pueblo Key North American steel production facilities Fast facts Operations Products Flat product group: Flat products: steel plate, coil and EVRAZ North America ENA Portland, Oregon structural tubing used in the construction Capacity: of liquid storage tanks, vessels, bridges, Crude steel : 2.1 mtpa Tubular product group: rail cars, armour: coil and plate used in Flat-rolled products: 0.7 mtpa Portland, Oregon manufacturing of goods by the tubular Tubular products: 1.4 mtpa Calgary, Alberta products group Long products: 1.0 mtpa Red Deer, Alberta Tubular products: steel pipes including Camrose, Alberta large-diameter American Petroleum Employees: 4,210 2013: 4,151 Regina, Saskatchewan Institute API grade pipes used for oil and Ownership: 100% interest gas pipelines and small-diameter API grade Long product group: welded for use in down-hole drilling and in Pueblo, Colorado the collection of oil and gas Long products: railroad rail, seamless pipe for use in down-hole drilling, and wire rod used to make wire products Hereinafter excludes capacity of suspended Claymont steel mill and includes the updated effective capacity at other North American steel mills Flat, Tubular, and Long reported according to new operating divisions.
58 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements What EVRAZ said and did in 2014 and 2015 targets 2014 plans 2014 achievements 2015 targets Increase raw steel volumes to 1.1million Installed and commissioned investments to Improve operating availability to realise tonnes at EVRAZ Pueblo expand volume and improve quality 1.1million tonnes Develop plate products to participate in LNG Developed slab supply, rolling practices, and Complete production trials and finalise tank market in the Northwest market relations with major customers technical and economic feasibility Make yields and operational stability a high 10% improvement in rail yield Maintain rail prime yield gains priority for 2014 8% prime yield improvement in the Seamless mill Improve seamless prime yield by 2% 1% 2% yield improvement at the Portland Improve Portland Rolling yield by 2% plate mill Improve Regina Steel yield to 84.1% Fully utilise EVRAZ Red Deers premium Year-on-year premium & semi premium Improve quality performance through threading capacity and expand the range of connection sales volumes increased by 20% strengthened quality organisation, training, OCTG premium and semi-premium connections and maintenance optimisation.
Launch new welding technology: expand Rail mill equipment upgrades were Begin in-track testing of next generation production of the Pueblo rail mill to 526,000 commissioned, the patent application for premium rails and of new welding technology tonnes 10% and launch next generation the next generation premium rail was filed and premium rail and laboratory testing of next generation rail Maintain full production levels in the Pueblo was completed rail mill Introduce new wire rod products ENA was successfully approved as wire rod Continue to identify high value market supplier for tire cord to a major Japanese segments to expand volumes tire producer During 2014, EVRAZ North America investments also create a platform to In large diameter pipe, EVRAZ enjoys a completed a successful private placement of continue developing the next generations leading market share in North America due US$350million in 7.5% senior secured notes of rail products.
to strong customer relationships, multiple due 2019. plant footprint, and favourable geographic Our product technology team developed, locations.
During 2014, sales of line pipe During the year, EVRAZ North America also in cooperation with leading scientists from increased to 595 thousand tonnes, a 12% filed a registration statement with the SEC around the world, a new rail welding increase year-on-year.
EVRAZ expects in preparation for an initial public offering technology.
We applied for a patent for this demand for large diameter pipe to continue of stock.
The segment reporting has new technology and expect customer-in-track strengthening on the back of the need for been realigned to effectively reflect the testing will be carried out during 2015. infrastructure to cost effectively transport oil overall business management at EVRAZ and gas from the non-conventional producing North America.
The primary goals of EVRAZ North Americas regions in North America.
To keep up with the rail segment in 2015 are to establish our increasing levels of large diameter demand, welding technology as a best practice that we started ramping up production at the Production obviates the need for long rail and to progress Portland spiral mill during the fourth quarter Favourable market conditions and EVRAZ the in-track testing of our next generation of 2014.
North Americas disciplined execution of its premium rail which improves total life cycle commercial and operations strategies costs and safety for customers.
Small diameter OCTG sales increased to 283 resulted in a strong profitability performance thousand tonnes, a 40% increase year-onduring the year with stronger sales and Tubular products division year.
In addition, prices in the second half of production volumes when compared to 2013.
Production of Tubular products increased the year benefited from an affirmative injury 14% year-over-year driven by growing large determination by the U. S. International Trade Long products division diameter volumes and strong market demand Commission in August of 2014.
During the In the Long products division, EVRAZ for OCTG products coupled with operational year, the Tubular division also improved OCTG completed upgrades to the rail mill in Pueblo, improvements implemented at EVRAZ North yields and volumes at its Calgary mill and Colorado to improve rail quality, implement Americas OCTG facilities.
achieved a 15% cost reduction when advanced automated inspection systems, compared to 2013. improve end straightness and improve head In Regina, Steel making successfully hardening capabilities.
These improvements completed its bi-annual outage in 2014, and resulted in record sales and an annual output succeeded in producing and shipping 27,000 increase from 492,000 tonnes in 2013 to tonnes more than in 2013.
We believe these EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Business Review continued STEEL, North America segment Operational performance continued EVRAZ continues to focus on higher-value Going forward, the Flat product group will Outlook heat treated pipe products and premium focus on developing its capabilities to capture The outlook for steel demand in North connections to meet the needs of a large share of the incremental high value America for 2015 remains positive with unconventional drilling operators.
We are demand created by LNG liquefaction projects robust demand across most sectors.
currently expanding the heat treatment and the market opportunity to export high However, elevated imports, together with an capacity at our Calgary facility to serve the value armour products.
inventory overhang will likely continue weigh high margin alloy pipe market in Western on margins during the first half of the year as Canada and the US.
EVRAZ North America Sales distributors go through a fide-stocking cycle.
also plans to continue developing Premium EVRAZ North Americas sales volumes and Semi-Premium OCTG connections remained marginally unchanged compared to EVRAZ anticipates strong performances to offer a full range of sizes and applications 2013 despite the closure of the Claymont mill across the rail products, wire rod, and large to clients.
in Q4 2013 and the sale of both the Surrey diameter pipe markets.
Q4 2013 and Regina cut-to-length facilities Flat products division Q2 2014.
We expect continued strength in capital The plate and coil end markets benefited spending by Class-I railroads to underpin from broad based demand recovery in Despite import pressure, product pricing was moderate growth in rail over the next few non-residential construction, industrials, strong in 2014, and EVRAZs North American years approximately in-line with GDP growth.
Additionally, high operations were able to utilise the favourable domestic capacity utilisation rates across the market conditions.
Strong demand for large diameter pipes is domestic producers supported robust pricing expected to continue into 2015 as low cost growth.
Margins at EVRAZs Portland mill Research and development market access continues to be a priority for were exceptionally strong largely due to its oil and gas producers.
We believe that strong Our research and development centre proximity to a deep-water port and access to oil and natural gas production in the US and in Regina is a comprehensive facility with low cost Far East slabs.
Canada will continue to drive demand for 10 engineers and other support personnel pipeline infrastructure in North America in the dedicated full-time to the development The Portland mill rolled within 4,000 tonnes short and medium term.
of solutions for the oil and gas and plate of its all-time production record and markets that enable us to stay ahead of successfully overcame record levels of steel We expect demand for Oil Country Tubular evolving customer needs.
plate import, which were up almost 100% Goods OCTG and seamless pipe in 2015 to compared to 2013.
The mill implemented be unfavourably affected by spending cuts in Our state-of-the-art Product Technology numerous operational improvements during exploration and production capital.
However, Centre in Pueblo, Colorado, focuses on the year resulting in fixed cost cuts of EVRAZ anticipates demand will quickly development of next generation rail products US$1.6million.
These cuts predominantly respond to positive changes in the market and wire rod.
Our expanded team of came from labour, but increased volume once the oil price stabilizes and the fideengineers, scientists, and metallurgists use drove overall production costs higher.
advanced equipment to perform on-site testing, conduct complex analytical Production of flat-rolled products by EVRAZ procedures, and provide customer support North America fell by 320,000 tonnes that enable us to build deep technical compared to 2013, reflecting the closure partnerships with our customers.
60 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
