Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The directors consider that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed the Groups cash flow projections against availability of financing.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
The following new IFRS were effective for the first time for the year ended 31 August 2014: IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits The principal impact of this standard is to replace the interest cost on defined benefit post-retirement scheme obligations and the expected return on scheme assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit post-retirement scheme deficit.
In addition, administration costs are now recognised in the income statement when the services are performed.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 August 2013 has been restated in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and related notes.
The impact of this standard is to reduce profit before taxation by 1.5m and profit for the year by 1.2m and to increase net assets by 1.2m.
Further details of the impact of the adoption of this standard can be found in note 27.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement This standard provides a single source of guidance for the measurement and disclosure requirements in respect of fair value.
The standard does not itself extend to accounting for fair value, but instead provides guidance on how this should be applied when fair value is required by other standards.
This has no material impact on the Group.
There were no other new standards, amendments or interpretations adopted by the Group and effective for the first time for the year ended 31 August 2014 that have had a material impact on the Group.
A number of new standards, amendments or interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and consequently have not yet been applied in preparing the financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements of Fenner PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the Group as at 31 August each year.
Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one-half of the voting rights.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group at the date of completion.
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the date that control is transfered or until control ceases respectively.
Where necessary, the accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are adjusted to bring them into line with those used by the Group.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of acquisition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 73 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates the functional currency.
The Group financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
Transactions and balances Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items measured at historical cost are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement and retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the income statement in the period.
Net investment in foreign operations For the consolidation of operations where the functional currency is different to the Groups presentation currency, the assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date and income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity in the exchange reserve.
On disposal of such operations, the cumulative exchange differences are included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets and liabilities of that operation and are retranslated at the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to not apply this to goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods in both the ECS and AEP divisions is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer.
For domestic sales in our business units, revenue is principally recognised upon the despatch of goods.
For export sales, made under internationally accepted trade terms, in our business units, revenue is recognised when the primary duties required to transfer risk, as stipulated in those terms, have been completed.
Revenue from the provision of short-term services, which principally relate to the ECS division, is recognised in the period in which the services are completed.
Interest income Interest income relates to bank interest or similar income and is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value at the inception of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Government grants Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income in the balance sheet and are recognised in the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Government grants in respect of revenue expenditure are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related expenditure is incurred.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled share schemes for certain employees.
The cost of equity-settled share-based payments is measured at fair value at the date of grant, excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The cost is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with the corresponding amount credited to equity, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed annually and the charge is adjusted accordingly in respect of non marketbased vesting conditions.
The fair values are measured using the Binomial option-pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation approach.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 74 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Post-retirement benefits The Group operates various pension schemes, including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
For defined benefit schemes, the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of scheme assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Current service costs, past service costs and administration expenses are recognised within operating costs in the income statement.
Net interest costs, which are calculated by applying the discount rate to the net pension liability, are recognised as notional interest within finance costs in the income statement.
Remeasurements, which represent the difference between the actual return on assets and the amount implied by the net interest cost, together with experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income.
For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the income statement as they are incurred.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to their retirees.
The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit pension schemes.
These obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income and expense which are material and, due to their nature or size, are presented separately on the face of the income statement in order to provide a better understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Such exceptional items may include impairments of intangible or tangible assets, business restructuring costs, profits or losses arising from the disposal or closure of a business and adjustments to fair values in respect of acquisitions, such as changes to contingent consideration, together with the associated taxation.
Taxation Taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on taxable profit for the period using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, together with any adjustments in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or deductible or are taxable or deductible in other years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, unless specifically exempt.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
The resulting charge or credit is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the charge or credit is also recognised directly in equity.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board are recognised in the financial statements when they have been approved by shareholders at the AGM.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Segmental reporting Segmental information is reported in a manner consistent with the information provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
This information is used for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use, including borrowing costs for qualifying assets.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 to record the previously revalued freehold land and buildings as deemed cost at 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 75 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is recognised in the income statement to write down the value of the asset to its residual value on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset from the date it is brought into use.
Estimated useful lives most widely applied are as follows: Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings Unexpired term of lease Plant, machinery and equipment 3-10 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
Assets under construction are not depreciated until commissioned.
Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Any excess of the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired entity over cost is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 September 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has been recorded at the previous UK GAAP carrying amount at that date, subject to any impairment required at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 continues to be included in reserves and is not included in any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Intangible assets are subsequently stated at fair value or cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Estimated useful lives most widely applied are as follows: Computer software 3-5 years Order book within 1 year Brands and trademarks 3-20 years Leases 5-7 years Customer relationships 5-16 years Technology based assets 5 years Non-compete agreements 3-6 years Impairment The carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss previously been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit.
Any reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not subsequently reversed.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 76 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with allowance for obsolete or slow moving items.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Raw materials are generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Financial assets Financial assets are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due and this cost is recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts as they are an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services acquired from suppliers in the ordinary course of business.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings Bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are initially measured at fair value less direct transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including forward foreign currency contracts, options, currency swaps and non-derivative cash instruments, including foreign currency borrowings, to hedge its exposure to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates or interest rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
Amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting or the ineffective portion of financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges are recognised in the income statement as they are incurred.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument in equity at that time is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement in the period.
Provisions Provisions in respect of restructuring costs, property and environmental costs, contingent and deferred consideration on acquisition and redemption liability on acquisitions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material using a suitable pre-tax rate which matches the maturity of and risks associated with that liability.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable issue costs.
