Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Credit risk Credit risk principally arises on short-term deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables.
The credit risk arising on short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is managed through the use of counterparties with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Group only trades with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
It is the Group's policy that all customers who wish to take on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis and the Group's exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The credit risk arising on trade receivables is spread across a large number of customers and across many countries.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The Group's maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
An analysis showing the ageing of trade receivables not impaired is given in note 18.
Capital management The primary objective of the Group's capital management of total equity and net debt is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares and vary the maturity profile of its borrowings.
The Group monitors capital using the following indicators: Net debt to EBITDA ratio 2014 2013 Net debt m 117.
85.5 8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges m 62.
43.0 4 Exceptional items excluding impairment charges m 5.
0.9 2 Net debt to EBITDA comprises net debt divided by operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment charges and exceptional items.
128.5 5 Net interest payable excluding notional interest m 13.
8.8 3 EBITDA interest cover comprises operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment charges and exceptional items divided by net interest payable excluding notional interest.
The Groups principal loan covenants are: EBITDA interest cover adjusted EBITDA being at least 3 times the net interest payable : and net debt to EBITDA ratio net debt being less than 3.5 times adjusted EBITDA.
At 31 August 2014, the Group comfortably complied with its loan covenants.
Reported EBITDA interest cover was 7.3 times 2013: 8.8 times while net debt to reported EBITDA was 1.2 times 2013: 0.9 times.
In addition, for compliance with loan covenants, reported EBITDA is adjusted for, inter alia, acquisitions and non-cash items: therefore, the measures improve when adjusted for these items.
