Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Fair values for financial instruments The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments: Level 1 - Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 - Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 - Inputs that are not based on observable market data.
At 31 August 2014, all financial instruments comprising cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, provisions and derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value using level 2 observable inputs, except for contingent deferred consideration on acquisitions and redemption liability on acquisitions within provisions, which are measured using level 3 unobservable inputs.
For contingent deferred consideration on acquisitions, amounting to 2.5m, there are no changes in assumptions that would result in a significant change in the fair value since this comprises performance-related amounts for which the performance period was complete at the balance sheet date.
For redemption liability on acquisitions, amounting to 13.1m, the main assumptions are the projected future cash flows and the discount rate.
The effect of changes to these assumptions are as follows: Increase decrease liability Increase in Decrease in Change in assumption assumption assumption m m Projected cash flows 5.0% 0.1 0.1 Discount rate 1.0% 0.3 0.3 Movements in contingent deferred consideration on acquisitions, together with non-contingent amounts, and redemption liability on acquisitions are detailed in note 29.
Further disclosures in respect of the fair values for each financial instrument are found in the respective notes to the Group financial statements.
Trade and other payables 2014 2013 m m Current Trade payables 77.
146.5 6 Non-current Accruals and deferred income 0.
0.7 2 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing.
There is no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value of trade and other payables.
Post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit post-retirement schemes for qualifying employees in operations around the world.
The schemes based in the UK and the Netherlands together account for 95% of total scheme assets and 96% of total scheme liabilities.
The assets of all the schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The cost of all the schemes are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
UK scheme The Fenner Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit pension scheme, which was closed to new entrants in 1997.
Scheme members accrue an annual pension, being a proportion of final salary for each year of pensionable service, increasing in line with inflation whilst in payment, subject to certain caps.
The scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every three years.
The most recent triennial valuation, whilst yet to be formally completed, was carried out as at 31 March 2014.
The actuarial valuation was updated as at 31 August 2014 by an independent qualified actuary.
