Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Independent Auditors Report to the members of Fenner PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements financial statements, which are prepared by Fenner PLC, comprise: the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 August 2014: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the Notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report 2014 Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 2.4 million, being 5% of the Groups consolidated profit before taxation and exceptional items.
We excluded the exceptional items so as to eliminate one-off factors and arrive at a materiality level that is an appropriate and consistent basis for our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.1 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group is structured along two business segments, being Engineered Conveyor Solutions and Advanced Engineered Products.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 15 territories made up of 166 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Group's 166 reporting units, we identified 114 that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
Specified audit procedures over certain balances were performed at a further 4 reporting units, while further testing was performed at the Group level, in particular in the areas of pensions, provisions, intangible assets and taxation.
As a result, audit procedures were performed over reporting units comprising 84% of the Groups consolidated profit before taxation and exceptional items.
This gave us the evidence we needed to express our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on pages 48 to 49.
