Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The directors consider that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed the Groups cash flow projections against availability of financing.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
The following new IFRS were effective for the first time for the year ended 31 August 2014: IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits The principal impact of this standard is to replace the interest cost on defined benefit post-retirement scheme obligations and the expected return on scheme assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit post-retirement scheme deficit.
In addition, administration costs are now recognised in the income statement when the services are performed.
Comparative information for the year ended 31 August 2013 has been restated in the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and related notes.
The impact of this standard is to reduce profit before taxation by 1.5m and profit for the year by 1.2m and to increase net assets by 1.2m.
Further details of the impact of the adoption of this standard can be found in note 27.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement This standard provides a single source of guidance for the measurement and disclosure requirements in respect of fair value.
The standard does not itself extend to accounting for fair value, but instead provides guidance on how this should be applied when fair value is required by other standards.
This has no material impact on the Group.
There were no other new standards, amendments or interpretations adopted by the Group and effective for the first time for the year ended 31 August 2014 that have had a material impact on the Group.
A number of new standards, amendments or interpretations are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and consequently have not yet been applied in preparing the financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements of Fenner PLC and subsidiaries controlled by the Group as at 31 August each year.
Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one-half of the voting rights.
The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group at the date of completion.
Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The subsidiarys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the date that control is transfered or until control ceases respectively.
Where necessary, the accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are adjusted to bring them into line with those used by the Group.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of acquisition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of acquisition.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
