Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make certain assumptions, estimates and judgements that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These are based on historical experience and any other factors, including expectations of future events, that are considered appropriate and these are continually reviewed.
Subsequent actual results may however differ from these estimates and judgements.
Areas where assumptions, estimates and judgements may give rise to risk of material adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities or reported results in the next financial year are as follows: Taxation The Group is subject to taxation in various jurisdictions and uncertainties exist over the interpretation of the respective tax regulations and the ultimate determination by the tax authorities in those jurisdictions.
Taxation is calculated based on the best estimates of amounts expected to be due.
Where the final tax determination is different to the amounts initially recorded, they are subsequently adjusted in the period in which such determination is made.
Deferred taxation is recognised based on the estimated likelihood that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets acquired Impairment testing for the carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets acquired is based on estimated recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units, based on value in use calculations.
This is calculated using cash flow projections based on financial forecasts for a period of three years and, thereafter, extrapolated using estimated growth rates in the respective territories.
Cash flows are discounted using an appropriate pre-tax cost of capital for each respective territory.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations are based on actuarial valuations that use a number of assumptions.
These include the discount rate, which is based on the interest rate of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency of the benefits and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related obligation, inflation rates, expected salary increases and mortality.
Provisions Provisions represent managements best estimate of expenditure required to settle obligations existing at the balance sheet date.
For certain obligations within contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions and redemption liability on acquisitions, payments are contingent on the future performance of acquired businesses and this is estimated based on financial forecasts.
Where material, obligations are discounted using suitable rates based on borrowings that match the maturity of the consideration being discounted.
Exceptional items and non-GAAP performance measures Certain items of income and expense are classified as exceptional items due to their nature or size.
These are presented separately on the face on the income statement in order to provide a better understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Such exceptional items may include impairments of intangible or tangible assets, business restructuring costs, profits or losses arising from the disposal or closure of a business and adjustments to fair values in respect of acquisitions, such as changes to contingent consideration, together with the associated taxation.
Exceptional items, together with amortisation of intangible assets acquired and notional interest, are excluded from underlying performance measures in order to present a more meaningful measure of the underlying performance of the business.
These measures are consistent with how underlying business performance is measured internally.
