Fidessa group plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued p Trade payables Trade payables are stated at amortised cost.
q Employee share trusts The trusts and share plan trustees, which purchase and hold shares in connection with employee share plans, are included in the financial statements and presented as a deduction from equity.
Any consideration paid or received by them for the purchase or sale of the shares is shown as a movement in equity.
r Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when a present legal or constructive obligation exists as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows.
No provision is recognised when it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability and instead a contingent liability is disclosed.
3 Recent accounting developments At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, interpretations and amendments were issued but not yet mandatory and early adoption has not been applied.
IAS16 and IAS38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation amendments.
IAS16 and IAS41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants amendments.
IAS19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendments.
IAS27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendments.
IFRS11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendments.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
With the exception of IFRS15 it is considered that the above standards, amendments and interpretations will not have a significant effect on the consolidated or Company results or net assets.
IFRS15 was published in May 2014 and to date has not been adopted by the EU.
The standard will not be effective until January 2017.
A detailed evaluation of its potential impact has commenced but it is too early to determine whether adoption of the standard will have any significant effect on reported results and financial position.
4 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions take account of the circumstances and facts at the period end, historical experience of similar situations and other factors that are believed to be reasonable and relevant, the results for which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
The estimates and judgements that are likely to be the most material are summarised below.
This summary is not a list of all uncertainties, estimates and judgements encountered and others could arise that cause a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets or liabilities.
Fidessa group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 a Revenue Fidessas recurring revenue model means that the majority of revenue is recognised on a systematic basis.
However, at any time there is likely to be a limited number of significant implementations and contract amendments underway where there is uncertainty over the value of revenue to recognise or defer.
In these situations a range of factors relevant to the situation are considered in order to determine the value of revenue recognised or deferred.
These factors typically include the contractual terms, delivery progress and anticipated remaining effort required, technical complexity and risk, uncertainties still to be resolved and the customers circumstances.
b Product development expenditure Fidessa invests on a continual basis in the development of new and enhanced features in the product suite.
The rolling programme of product development results in there not being defined end dates for elements of the product suite.
Therefore, judgement is required in determining the practice for capitalising and amortising development costs.
This has been applied consistently year to year.
The accounting policy for research and product development is in note 2j and the carrying value of product development capitalised and the amounts capitalised and amortised in the year are detailed in note 13. c Income taxes Fidessa operates internationally and therefore spans several tax jurisdictions.
In recognising income tax assets and liabilities estimates have to be made of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain and on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
d Fair values IFRSs require many assets, liabilities and expenses to be recognised at fair value.
This includes intangible assets note 13 and share-based payments note 19.
Where open market values are not available the fair values are estimates and therefore subject to assumptions and varying interpretation.
e Impairment of goodwill The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires a calculation to be made of the value in use of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated and this calculation to be compared to the carrying value of the cash generating unit.
The value in use calculation includes estimates of the future financial performance of the cash generating unit, the discount rate to apply to projected future cash flows, long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates note 13.
Variations in these estimates could result in a material variance in the value in use resulting from the calculation.
f Expected useful lives The carrying value of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and the respective amortisation and depreciation of these assets is affected by the assumptions made in determining the expected useful lives of the assets.
A judgement has been made of the useful life of each category of asset and this judgement has been applied consistently year to year.
The amortisation and depreciation periods are detailed in notes 2i and 2j and the carrying value of the assets along with the amounts capitalised, amortised and depreciated in the year are detailed in notes 12 and 13.
