Fidessa group plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 11 Financial risk management The use of financial instruments is managed under policies and procedures approved by the Board.
These are designed to reduce the financial risks being faced, which primarily relate to credit, interest and liquidity, which arise in the normal course of business.
Credit risk Financial instruments which potentially expose Fidessa to credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset.
Cash equivalents are deposited only with major financial institutions that satisfy certain credit criteria as specified in Fidessas treasury policy.
The policy limits the maximum deposit with a counterparty.
Liquidity risk The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities.
Trade payables Accrued expenses 2014 2013 2014 2013 000 000 000 000 3 months or less 93 118 725 544 3 to 12 months 18 Carrying value 93 118 725 562 It is expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis will not arise materially earlier or at significantly different values.
Interest receivable and payable Fidessa holds net funds and hence its interest risks are associated with short-term cash deposits.
The overall objective with respect to these deposits is to maintain a balance between security of the funds, accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
In practice, this means that deposits are unlikely to be made with a maturity date greater than three months.
All deposits are at current market rates.
There are no borrowings due to the cash reserves and strong cash generation of the Fidessa group.
Capital management The Board monitors the total equity, distributable reserves and the cash and cash equivalents balance in considering its retained capital along with when and how a return of capital to shareholders is appropriate.
A strong capital base is maintained so as to provide employee, customer, market, investor and creditor confidence in its subsidiaries businesses and to ensure that it continues to operate as a going concern.
Fidessa has strong cash generation due to being consistently profitable and non-acquisitive in nature.
The annual dividend has a pay-out ratio of approximately 45% which provides a reasonable return to shareholders whilst also providing funds for potential acquisitions and replenishing the cash balance.
However, in the absence of acquisitions, Fidessa has a track record of returning the additional cash to shareholders in the form of special dividends.
