Fidessa group plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fidessa group plc Fidessa or the Company, is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 13th February 2015.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Fidessas business activities and position in its market are described in the Strategic Report.
The directors believe that Fidessa is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties.
Fidessa has considerable financial resources, no borrowings, a high level of recurring revenue and a broad spread of customers.
As a consequence of these factors and having reviewed the forecasts for the coming year, the directors have a reasonable expectation that Fidessa has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
1 Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of financial instruments which are stated in accordance with IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements, none of which had an impact on the consolidated or Companys financial statements: IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS27 Investment Entities amendments.
IAS32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendments.
IAS36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets amendments.
IAS39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting amendments.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently in the consolidated and Company financial statements to all periods presented.
2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Fidessa group plc and its subsidiaries.
There are no associates or joint ventures.
Subsidiaries are entities where the parent company has control over when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred until the date on which control ceases.
Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
