GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS Ball Grid Array BGA A type of surface mount technology used for packaging integrated circuits.
Bar solder and flux Used in mature wave soldering process.
Copper damascene Chemicals used to create nanoscale copper connections within semiconductor wafers.
Die-attach products The die refers to the silicon die in active integrated circuit packages.
The attachment ismost commonly a thermal path to help draw the heat out of the package and is typically either a purely metal or a conductive polymeric bond.
This application is criticalto the integrated circuits reliability and ultimate performance.
Electronic polymers Used for packaging, sealing and conductive adhesives.
Electroplating A plating process that uses electrical current to coat a conductive object with a thin layer of another material in order to bestow a desired property e. g. corrosion wearresistance, aesthetic qualities to a surface that otherwise lacks that property.
Flux A chemical-based material designed to help reduce oxides and clean metal surfaces in order to enable effective wetting of metal surfaces to the molten solder alloy during the creation of a solder joint when attaching an electronic component to a printed circuit board.
Preforms Solder components engineered into specific shapes forms.
Printed circuit board A type of circuit board which has conducting tracks superimposed or printed on oneor both sides.
May refer to a board either before or after the assembly process.
136 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Printed circuit boardassembly Printed circuit board assembly involves attaching components such as semiconductors and capacitors to a fabricated board and making the required physical and electrical connections.
This has to be done with precise accuracy if the finished printed circuit board is to function effectively.
Reclaim Metal recycling business - reclaim of waste solder, reused in solder processes.
Semiconductor wafers A thin slice of semiconducting material, upon which microcircuits are constructed by chemical deposition of various materials.
Solder An alloy of tin and other metals with a comparatively low melting point used to join less fusible metals.
Solder spheres Used for integrated circuit and printed circuit board connections.
Stencils Used to apply adhesive and solder paste onto a printed circuit board.
Surface mount technology Both a technology design and the electronic components that are used in the process of soldering components to the surface of a printed circuit board.
Through-hole assembly The use of either older technology parts or parts requiring significant mechanical strength, where the component has wire leads that physically pass through holes in a printed circuit board.
Wafer bumping products Metal alloys for wafer bump plating, including gold, copper, lead-free alloys and low alpha lead-based alloys.
Wave solder assembly A process by which large printed circuit boards can be soldered quickly and reliably during assembly.
Wire solder Used in touch-up and rework applications.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 137
