SHAREH O LD ER INFORMA TION Enquiries Dividend Reinvestment Plan For enquiries regarding ordinary shares, please contact: Shareholders are able to take their dividend as cash, orinshares through the DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Equiniti Limited operated by the Companys Registrar, Equiniti.
Further Aspect House details are available at http: www.
co. uk Spencer Road products Pages .
aspx or Lancing directly from Equiniti.
West Sussex BN99 6DA The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP allows shareholders United Kingdom to use their cash dividends to buy more shares in the Company.
Rather than receiving a dividend cheque Or please telephone: through the post or having their bank account credited UK only 0871 384 2335 with the dividend payment, shareholders can choose to or non UK 44 121 415 7047 use their cash dividend to buy additional shares.
or Fax: 44 1903 833 168 Whole shares are purchased with any residual money For the hard of hearing, Equiniti now offers a special Textel being carried forward and added to the next dividend.
service which can be accessed by dialling 0871384 2255.
However, if the amount of the dividend, less any dealing Shareholders can also access their holdings online by costs incurred in completing the purchase, is insufficient visiting the Registrars website at www.
co. uk tobuy a single share, no charge is made and the For enquiries regarding corporate governance, please dividend is carried forward.
contact the Company Secretary at the registered office: e-communications Alent plc Using the Groups website as the main method of Forsyth Road distribution for many statutory documents is part of our Sheerwater commitment to reducing our environmental impact.
Woking Shareholders can choose to receive communications, Surrey GU21 5RZ including the Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of Meetings, in electronic form rather than by post.
com Telephone: 44 0 1483 793250 This has a number of advantages, including: Fax: 44 0 1483 793299 savings on environmental resources: For investor queries, please contact the investor relations significant cost savings for the Company on the delivery manager at the registered office: of documents: and Alent plc speedier delivery of shareholder communications.
Forsyth Road Shareholders can register through the online service Sheerwater provided by our Registrar, Equiniti, at www.
Woking The registration process requires the input of a shareholder Surrey GU21 5RZ reference number SRN, which can be found on the E-mail: fgibbons@alent.
Tel: 44 0 1483 793250 To ensure that shareholder communications are received Fax: 44 0 1483 793299 in electronic form, email should be selected as the Financial calendar mailing preference.
7 May 2015 Annual General Meeting Once registered, shareholders will be sent an email 3 August 2015 2015 Interim Results notifying them each time a shareholder communication has been published on the Company website, and The financial calendar may be updated from time to time providing them with a link to the page on the website throughout the year.
Please refer to our website www.
138 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Warning to shareholders If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Alent plc is legally obliged to make its share register ensure that you obtain the correct name of the person available to the general public.
Consequently some and organisation: shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including check that they are properly authorised by the correspondence from unauthorised investment companies.
You can check at Companies have become increasingly aware that their www.
uk: and shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls report the matter to the FCA at www.
These calls are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders As at 31 December 2014 Shareholder Analysis Shareholding Analysis % of issued No.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 139
