Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 4 the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company istheBaillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles group companies is disclosed in note 29.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors ofFresnillo plc.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
On 1 January 2014, as a part of an internal reorganisation to mitigate risk exposure, the operating entities without being extinguished transferred part of their assets, liabilities and capital through a spin-off into eight new entities.
As a result of the spin-off Fresnillo plc.
continues retain control over the new entities.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the results of operations andcashflows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein, see note 4.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interest that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value ofnet assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity.
b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2013 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2014, the amendment to the cash and cashequivalents and borrowing costs accounting policies and the new accounting policy for short-term investments.
| 168 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
