Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 8.
Exploration We are highly dependent on the success Exploration expenses in 2014 totalled US$185 million, below Link to strategy ofthe exploration programme to meet our budget: this was in accordance with the Groups decision to reduce targets in terms of strategic value-creation exploration expenses in light of current market conditions.
Our and our long-term production and exploration objectives for 2015 include a budgeted risk capital 3 Explore reservesgoals.
invested in exploration of approximately US$170 million, with 30% to be spent in operating mines and 38% in advanced exploration Risk factors that may impact prospecting projects.
We also ensure we have: andconverting inferred resources apart Key risk indicators from the growing level of insecurity and A focus on increasing the regional exploration drilling programmes Drill programmes completed access to land include not having a robust to intensify exploration efforts in the districts with high potential.
overall and by project portfolio of prospects in our pipeline with For local exploration, aggressive in-field exploration to upgrade sufficient potential in terms of indicated the resources category and to convert inferred resources and inferred resources, and insufficient into reserves.
concession coverage in target areas.
A team of highly trained and motivated geologists, both Also there could be a risk of losing purchase employees and long-term contractors.
opportunities due to insufficient speed in Advisory technical reviews by international third party experts decision-making.
up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote sensing imagery As our production escalates and more and software for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and minesapproach the end of their lives, districts to be field-checked by the team.
it becomes increasingly challenging to Drill-ready high priority projects.
Given the good results we have achieved at Candamea this year, we exercised the option to acquire 100% of the project in Chihuahua and drilling has resumed on this open pittable gold-silver target.
During 2014 we revised our portfolio of concessions and determined that some did not have the expected potential: thus we voluntarily relinquished 332,743 hectares in order tofocus our efforts on areas of greater potential.
See Exploration pages 73-79 for more on our exploration programmes and investment.
Union relations Link to strategy Although we have a risk of union action We have clearly assigned responsibilities and programmes for or degradation of union relations at some maintaining close relationships with unions at mine site and at the 1 Operate sites, our overall relationship continues to national level.
We engage experienced legal counsel, both internal 2 Develop strengthen: however, internal union politics and external, to support us.
We are proactive and timely in our could impact us negatively.
responses to the needs of the unions, and experienced no labourrelated work stoppages in 2014.
We will continue closely monitoring Key risk indicators union and labour developments.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 51
