Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 3.
Potential actions by the Government We face the risk of implementation of There are several legislative initiatives that have been presented to Link to strategy new governmental requirements that will the Chamber of Deputies and to the Chamber of Senators.
There is 1 Operate have an adverse impact on us, such as the a threat of a more stringent Mining Law: however, due to political 2 Develop Mexican Tax Reform as well as the special timing, our advisers believe that in 2015 the initiatives with potential 3 Explore mining right approved in 2013, or other to cause more impact to the mining industry will not be a priority potential, not yet materialised, new or more on the political agenda.
Notwithstanding, we continue to actively 4 Sustainability stringent ecological or explosives regulations participate in industry and government meetings and events to Key risk indicators e. g. banning open pit mining, the use continuously monitor the political and regulatory environment.
Number of media mentions ofcyanide etc.. To mitigate the risk of governmental actions we underwent related to mining regulations The potential likelihood of new ecological acorporate restructuring to re-group our assets.
i. e. tax royalties banning of regulation is currently highly uncertain.
We collaborate with other members of the mining community via mining activities in protected However, stricter regulation on explosives is the Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against new detrimental areas and profile of those expected, due to the link with security risk taxes royalties or regulations.
We also support the industrys quoted political parties, and misuse by criminal groups.
lobbying efforts to improve the general publics understanding of the government officials, etc.
At the same time we strive for maximum resilience by maintaining low cost of production and a strong capital position.
We maintain strict controls on receiving, handling, storing and dispatching explosives in each of our operations and projects.
Security Link to strategy Our people face the risk of kidnapping, We closely monitor the security situation, maintain clear internal extortion or harm due to security conditions communications and coordinate work in areas of higher insecurity, 1 Operate in the regions where we operate.
We face along with the following practices to manage our security risks and 2 Develop the risk of restricted access to operations prevent possible incidents: 3 Explore projects and theft of assets.
We maintain close relations with authorities, including 4 Sustainability The growing influence of drug cartels, other armyencampments installed nearby our operations.
criminal elements and general lawlessness We alsoreinforce our relationship with the army secretariat Key risk indicators in the regions where we operate, combined attheregionallevel in order to align and coordinate efforts.
Total number of security with our exploration and project activities Travel management e. g. travel in convoy, use aircraft versus incidents affecting our in areas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, landtravel when possible and avoid known insecure areas.
workforce thefts, kidnapping, makes working in these areas of particular In 2014 we defined a minimum standard of technological and extortion, etc.
physical security measures that would be implemented in 2015 Number of sites affected inall of our business units.
andwork days lost, by region We defined a profile for security personnel internal and and type of site contractors to improve the efficiency of our security strategy.
We continued to utilise logistics controls in 2014 to further reduce the probability of theft of mineral concentrate, including the use of real-time tracking technology and the use of guard services and control checkpoints in a safe corridor, and reduced authorised stops in order to optimise delivery times and reduce convoys to exposure.
We invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts.
In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access to the San Nicols del Oro prospect remains suspended because of the state of insecurity in Guerrero state, and we have also postponed certain prospecting activities in certain regions of Michoacn.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 47
