Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements b Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from two to six years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 7,143 11,742 After one year but not more than five years 2,724 4,161 9,867 15,903 As at 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 12,217 9,765 29.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2014, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporateincome tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta o CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax On 30 November 2012, the Mexican Government enacted a new federal labour law.
During 2014 management implemented certain actions as a part of an on-going process in order to manage the exposure resulting from the issuance of the new labour law including any potential impacts on the operations and financial position of the Group, however management does not expect any potential contingency or significant effect on the Groups financial statements as at 31 December 2014 and going forward | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 205
