Shareholder Information Financial calendar Report a scam Preliminary Statement 4 March 2015 If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using First Interim Management Statement 15 April 2015 the form at www.
uk scams where you can also review the Annual General Meeting 18 May 2015 latest scams or call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Interim Statement 4 August 2015 If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Second Interim Management Statement 14 October 2015 Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. Dividend payment schedule For further information, please visit our website: 2014 Final Dividend Record Date 1 May 2015 www.
com or contact: 2014 Final Dividend Payment Date 22 May 2015 2015 Interim Dividend Record Date 14 August 2015 Fresnillo plc 2015 Interim Dividend Payment Date 10 September 2015 Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Gabriela Mayor, Head of Investor Relations Registrar Joint Sponsor and Forward looking statements Equiniti Ltd Corporate Broker This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, Aspect House Merrill Lynch International forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be Spencer Road, Lancing 2 King Edward Street identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms West Sussex BN99 6DA London EC1A 1HQ believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, United Kingdom United Kingdom may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Registered office orcomparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, 25 Bank Street 28 Grosvenor Street goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements London E14 5JP London W1K 4QR include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear ina number United Kingdom United Kingdom ofplaces throughout this document and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations Solicitor Corporate headquarters concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial Linklaters LLP Calzada Legaria No.
549 position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold One Silk Street Torre 2, Piso 11 industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and London EC2Y 8HQ Delegacin Miguel Hidalgo uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
United Kingdom 11250 Mexico, D. F. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance Mexico and the actual results of the Groups operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry in which Auditor the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, Ernst & Young LLP orsuggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this 1 More London Place document.
In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position London SE1 2AF and liquidity, and the development of the markets and the industry United Kingdom inwhich the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
Share fraud warning A number of factors could cause results and developments to differ Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking offered shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated statements including, without limitation, general economic and business price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those inregulation, currency fluctuations including the US dollar and Mexican who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
Most victims peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000. develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into resources or reserves, changes Protect yourself inits business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from inflated prices for shares you own, or free company or research reports, actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak take these steps before handing over any money: only as of the date of this document, reflect the Groups current view with 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
respect to future events and are subject to risks relating to future events 2.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups to ensure they are authorised.
operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors should specifically consider the factors identified in this document which 3.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the firm.
could cause actual results to differ before making an investment decision.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group 5.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release business with.
theresult of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
or to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
| 258 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
