Managing our Risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 7.
Safety Inherent to our industry is the risk of We are committed to offering a safe workplace to our workers and Link to strategy incidents due to unsafe acts or conditions contractors.
We aspire to a safety culture where our personnel have causing injuries or fatalities to our people.
the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely.
Our strategy is based on: Our people face risks of fire, explosion, electrocution and carbon monoxide Managing our knowledge of safety through identifying and 4 Sustainability poisoning, as well as risks specific to each analysing risks, evaluating controls, performing situational mine site and development project, for assessments, and monitoring performance.
Key risk indicators example rock falls caused by geological Engaging our stakeholders through the No more accidents Safe behaviour index conditions, collisions of equipment in process, which has become a permanent programme to reinforce percentage of work observed large operations, cyanide contamination, the safety culture.
This programme includes Leaders for Safety, that is executed safely collisionsbetween equipment and people Behavioural Change, Operational Discipline, Rules that Save in accordance with the and smaller vehicles.
Lives and Comprehensive Accident Investigation.
Companys safety procedures Launching initiatives to embed safety in our culture.
Safety culture Unsafe conditions eliminated is routinely monitored to assess the attitudes, behaviours and index percentage of disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions.
unsafe conditions observed In 2014 the Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate slightly increased and recorded that have to 3.77 vs 3.22 in 2013, however compared with 4.66 in 2012, we been eliminated achieved a better performance and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Operational procedures Rate increased to 0.66 vs 0.43 in 2013, and 1.19 in 2012. availability index percentage Other mitigating activities include: of required safety procedures that are available Implementing, with the support of DuPont, the SafeStart project which focuses on the human factors that are involved in the majority of incidents and injuries.
Training, for both employees and contractors.
The average of workforce training in 2014 was 87 hours, of which 57 were relatedto HSECR training.
See Safety pages 83-85 for more on our safety strategy.
| 50 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
