Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Shared Services Agreement was renewed for five years with Related party matters effect from 31 December 2012.
Extensive work with external advisors Peoles beneficially owns 75% of the Groups common shares and is was undertaken at the time to ensure that the scope of services to be controlled by the Baillres family.
As such, Peoles has and will continue provided was appropriate to the needs of the Fresnillo Group: that the to have significant influence over the affairs and operations of Fresnillo.
pricing for services provided under the Shared Services Agreement Further, Fresnillo is dependent on the Peoles Group for certain key were appropriately benchmarked and that the arrangements were in operational services.
the ordinary course of business, not on unusual terms and had been negotiated on an arms length basis.
The Audit Committee presented Given the extensive related party relationships, the Audit Committees thisto independent Directors in February 2014 and it was approved.
primary role is to ensure that transactions with related parties are conducted under normal market terms and conditions and shareholders In order to ensure that Fresnillo is charged appropriately for services interests are safeguarded, by: rendered by Peoles under the Shared Services Agreement, Internal benchmarking data and information for related party transactions Audit conduct reviews of approximately one third of the services overa certain threshold: provided each year to ensure that these services are provided in accordance with the agreed KPIs.
As a result, all services are assessing the type and purpose of related party transactions and reviewedover a three-year cycle.
ascertaining whether they are in the normal course of business: reviewing the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction During the year, in line with its usual practice, the Audit Committee proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group prior considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex to such matters being considered by the independent Non-executive Arrangements for 2014 comparing proposed prices to comparable Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement or in pricescharged by Met-Mex to independent customers and to those of compliance with Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules: and other refineries taking account of ore composition and transport costs to ensure that they are reasonable.
Based on the satisfactory outcome of critically assessing and challenging the appropriateness of any that review, the Chairman of the Audit Committee recommended to the significant related party transactions and arrangements outside Board that the independent Directors approve the proposed charges for thenormal course of business.
2014 under the Met-Mex Arrangements, which they did in October 2014.
In November 2014, the Relationship Agreement between the Company and Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles was updated in response There are other dealings with related parties in the ordinary course of to changes in the UK Listing Rules for controlled companies, such changes business but, although not requiring approval by independent Directors, having been approved in principle by the independent Directors at the where they, individually or in aggregate for a particular supply become Board meeting in October 2014.
The updated agreement has not required of a certain size, the Audit Committee will seek evidence that they too any change to the Audit Committees approach to the oversight of related are conducted on an arms length basis.
In 2014, the Audit Committee party matters.
requisitioned and reviewed benchmarking data for such other related party activities which included the cost of insurance cover and the The Shared Services Agreement is an agreement between the Company Committee was satisfied that the arrangements are on a reasonable and Peoles under which 22 categories of services are provided to the arms length basis.
The Audit Committee reviews the shared services agreement at each renewal, using external advisors to review any revision In December 2014, the Audit Committee reviewed a schedule of all in the legal terms, to benchmark the proposed pricing against tenders the Companys other related party transactions during the year and requested from numerous alternative suppliers and use managements was satisfied that all transactions listed were in the ordinary course experience of both past performance against the KPIs agreed and any of business.
enhanced or additional services required.
The Corporate Governance Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Guy Wilson Senior Independent Director 3 March 2015 | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 139
