Audit Committee Report continued Last year, in addition to our primary task of the oversight of financial For 2015, we assess our priorities in addition toour primary task accounting and reporting together with internal controls, concentrating as follows: on the financial judgements in the financial statements, I outlined five Monitoring management, risk and internal audit to improve the quality priorities for your Audit Committee in 2014.
I now comment on progress ofthe bi-annual reports to the Board on the effectiveness of the so far: controls over risks at each of the operational mines, development projects and exploration areas effectively highlighting changes in the 2014 priorities risk profile, if any Continuing to monitor the development of the data required to produce Following the recent pronouncement from the FRC concerning the accurate Key Risk Indicators KRIs on a timely basis and encourage enhanced statement from the Board in the 2015 annual report about management to establish KRIs that are more relevant in assessing risk the Companys internal controls, we need to monitor the efforts of mitigation options.
management and internal audit to examine all our internal controls to identify if any additional procedures are required before the Board Encouraging management to ensure that all our employees recognise can have confidence in the data provided so that they can make the thatreporting inappropriate behaviour or actions is completely enhanced statement anonymous and that management will support all such reports.
The Company prepares a considerable amount of data on each project Monitoring the implementation and obtaining independent opinions which is regularly reviewed by management.
To date, this data is not supporting the corporate reorganisation of a number of subsidiary summarised in a way to enable informed discussion at the Board.
undertakings which encompassed asset valuations, related party We willmonitor managements development of a new summary agreements, PTU and taxation.
presentation to ensure that it is concise and transparent for all parties Continuing to oversee managements review of land titles to ensure We will monitor managements development of robust process to that our legal titles remain valid whilst monitoring the progress of underpin the requirement for a statement by the Board regarding the the situation at Soledad-Dipolos: together with our annual reviews Companys longer-term viability being for a period longer than that ofcompliance with the conditions of the Groups mining licences.
envisaged under the current going concern concept.
We will therefore Reviewing managements progress in refining the IT strategy so that challenge managements assessment of the relevant evidence and itunderpins the corporate strategy.
assumptions underlying future years projections in order to ensure thatthe Boards statement is appropriately worded Progress We will continue to review managements progress in developing the requirements to fulfil the IT strategy to ensure that these are Management developed the data to support a series of KRIs linked consistent with the corporate strategy and that any enhancements totheGroups principal risks.
These were reviewed and agreed by the arecost effective Board and the Audit Committee considers that the Company now has inplace a good functioning risk management approach.
In closing I would like to acknowledge, with gratitude, the contribution to the Audit Committee of Fernando Solana, who did not stand for Managements efforts to explain to all employees the Companys culture re-election to the Board at the 2014 AGM and therefore left the Audit and ethics, what constitutes unethical behaviour or actions and how to Committee.
Fernando was a member of the Committee for five years report them anonymously has resulted in a substantial increase in the and his input to the Committee was greatly respected.
I am delighted number of reports mainly minor local operational and human resources that Jaime Serra has joined the Committee and we are already issues through our whistleblower programme.
benefittingfrom his contributions and insight.
The corporate restructuring of the mining operations has been enacted successfully with all legal, financial and accounting requirements Yours faithfully satisfied, including independent opinions where appropriate.
Mr Guy Wilson The review of land titles continues with no major issues uncovered Chairman of the Audit Committee following those at Soledad-Dipolos in 2013.
It is currently expected thatthis review will be completed in 2015.
Executive and operational management have held numerous meetings with the IT Department to evaluate the existing IT systems against the requirements of the overall strategy and to identify additional programmes needed to support the strategy and the level of priority allocated to each programme.
This aspect is complete and managements current task is to evaluate the resources required to implement any new system and the related costs of people and equipment.
| 130 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
