Managing our Risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 5.
Public perception against mining Public opinion globally is increasingly Communities are our strategic partners and having their trust Link to strategy concerned with the potential adverse social requires understanding and engaging with them effectively and 1 Operate and environmental consequences of opening being accountable for our impact.
Our programme for community 2 Develop and developing mining operations.
This engagement includes: 3 Explore growing sentiment manifests itself through Conducting community perception studies across all our increased regulatory obligations for mining 4 Sustainability operating units.
These perception audits have allowed each of companies and increased social activism thebusiness units to update their social risks and opportunities.
Key risk indicators by communities and other grass roots Following the guidelines set out by the International Finance Number of local actions by organisations.
Corporation and the International Council of Miningand Metals.
NGOs or other local social Implementing a state-of-the-art information system to support groups against mining, community relations and social investment, which includes by region analysis and logs of activities organised by the Company Number of actions by for the communities, and contribution requests made by NGOs or other local social the communities.
groups against mining in Monitoring public opinion within local and international media the Americas newspapers, radio stations, local channels.
Working with communities at an early exploration stage to understand their needs and communicate the benefits of developing and operating a mine in terms of social welfare andquality of life.
Flawless environmental behaviour is key to maintain communitiestrust.
The Company collaborates with peers in the international and Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response to this risk.
| 48 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
