Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements 14.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2014 the Company has the following contingencies: The Company is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate income tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Company has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Fresnillo Group the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
In regard to the Ejido El Bajo matter previously reported by the Company: In 2009 five members of the El Bajo agrarian community in the state of Sonora, who claimed rights over certain surface land in the proximity of the operations of Minera Penmont Penmont, submitted a legal claim to the Unitarian Agrarian Court Tribunal Unitario Agrario of Hermosillo Sonora, tohave Penmont vacate an area of this surface land.
The land in dispute encompassed a portion of surface area where part of the operations of Soledad-Dipolos is located.
The litigation resulted in a definitive court order, pursuant to which Penmont was ordered to vacate 1,824 hectares of land.
The disputed land was returned in July 2013, resulting in the suspension of operations at Soledad-Dipolos.
The Magistrate noted that remediation activities are necessary to comply with relevant regulatory requirements and requested the guidance of the Federal Environmental Agency SEMARNAT in this respect.
The Agrarian Magistrate further issued a procedural order in execution of his ruling determining, amongst other aspects, that Penmont must remediate the lands to the same state that they were before Penmonts occupation.
In the opinion of the Company, the procedural order is excessive since such level of remediation was not considered as part of the original agrarian ruling and also because the procedural order appears not to consider the fact that Penmont conducted its activities pursuant to valid mining concessions and environmental impact permits.
Penmont has challenged the procedural order before Federal courts and is awaiting resolution of this filing.
Penmont conducted mining activities on approximately 300 hectares of such lands and the remediation activities in this respect are still pending.
In connection with the foregoing matters, members of the El Bajo agrarian community presented additional claims, including a separate legal suit before the Unitarian Agrarian Court, claiming US$65 million for damages, alleging that the Group improperly used the land affected by the court ruling, as well as requesting the cancellation of Penmonts mining concessions and environmental permits within the El Bajo lands.
Such concessions and permits are held by way of separate title to that relating to the surface land.
The claimants have not yet presented substantial evidence to support their claim and the Group believes that these claims are without merit.
Any initial ruling in this case would be subject to the appeals process in Mexico before judicial authorities other than the Unitarian Agrarian Court of Hermosillo, Sonora.
Given the lack of evidence in support of the damages claim, the Company believes that an adverse and definitive ruling is not probable.
In addition, claimants have also presented other claims against occupation agreements they entered into with Penmont, covering land parcels separate from the land described above.
Penmont has no significant mining operations or specific geological interest in the affected parcels and these lands are therefore not considered strategic for Penmont.
Various claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties in this matter including appeals that are pending as well as criminal complaints.
There is significant uncertainty relating to the finalisation and ultimate result relating to these legal proceedings.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 237
