Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued m Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability: or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 18. n Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Profit or loss attributable to the parent Company The profit for the Company is US$139.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: loss of US$ 292.2 million.
In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented.
Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Companys consolidated financialstatements.
Income tax a Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net charge credit arising on unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale assets note 7 7,145 17,416 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 7,145 17,416 | 230 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
