Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 11.
Environmental incidents Inherent to our industry is the risk of Our environmental management system ensures effective Link to strategy environmental incidents such as overflow compliance with Mexican regulations, ensures transparency collapse of tailing dams, cyanide spills and and supports initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint.
dust emissions, among others, any of which The Group was recognised with the GEI2 national award for the could have a high potential impact on our disclosure and auditing of its greenhouse gas inventory.
Additionally, people, communities and business.
we disclosed our performance in the water and climate change 4 Sustainability programmes of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
See Environment Key risk indicators pages 86-91 for more results on our environmental strategy Number of business andindicators.
units BUs with ISO 3 At the end of December 2014, 72 m of rich leaching solution with a 14001:2004 certification cyanide concentration of less than 20 parts per million leaked from Number of BUs with Clean the leaching pads of Noche Buena.
This leakage was appropriately Industry certification contained, employing our internal environment protocols without impact to any water channels, streams or natural soil.
Mexican Number of BUs with environmental authorities inspected the site and stated that the International Cyanide Company acted properly when implementing the standards Code certification established in theInternational Management Cyanide Code.
Number of BUs with OSHAS All our mining units are certified under ISO 14001 and have Clean 18001: 2007 certification Industry certification except for Saucito, which advanced in the Number of BUs integrated process of obtaining both and is expected to do so in 2015.
The into the Self-Management efforts to integrate Health, Safety and Environment under a single programme of the Mexican integrated management system brought the first positive outcomes Secretariat of Labour and with Cinega becoming the first business unit to achieve a joint Social Welfare STPS certification in OSHAS 18001-ISO 14001.
Number of environmental The Herradura mine is certified in the International Cyanide permits for all advanced Management Code while at Cinega the process is on hold, set exploration projects toresume once expansion at the processing plant is complete.
according to schedule We rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Manifest.
We also continue to support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 53 Strategic Report Performance With our high quality operating mines and growth projects, an extensive exploration pipeline supported by continuous investment across precious metals cycles, and enhanced sustainability efforts over the year, we optimised performance in 2014 and are on track to achieve our 2018 goals.
Our Mines in Operation 56 Our Projects in Development 71 Our Exploration Programme 73 Social and Sustainability Performance 80 Financial Review 96 | 54 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
