Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 4 the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company istheBaillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Peoles group companies is disclosed in note 29.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors ofFresnillo plc.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
Further information about the Group operating mines and its principal activities is disclosed in note 3.
On 1 January 2014, as a part of an internal reorganisation to mitigate risk exposure, the operating entities without being extinguished transferred part of their assets, liabilities and capital through a spin-off into eight new entities.
As a result of the spin-off Fresnillo plc.
continues retain control over the new entities.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2014 and 2013, and the results of operations andcashflows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations in accordance with IFRS 3.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein, see note 4.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
Transactions with non-controlling interest that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that is, a transaction with the owners in their capacity as owners.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value ofnet assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interest are also recorded in equity.
b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2013 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2014, the amendment to the cash and cashequivalents and borrowing costs accounting policies and the new accounting policy for short-term investments.
| 168 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Amendments to accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents In light of the Group placing funds in new types of instruments and short-term deposits, as compared to prior year, the Group has amended its accounting policy for cash and cash equivalents as follows: For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have maturities of between one day and four months.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Short-term investments accounting policy Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments.
Short-term investments are classified as loans and receivables.
New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Group The nature and the impact of each new standard and amendment is described below: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: The standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated being those investees in which the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Group adopted this standard as at 1 January 2014, as adopted by the European Union.
The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the financial position and performance of the Group.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities: IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 with the adoption of IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IAS 27 2012 and IAS 28 2012.
The adoption of this standard did not have a significant impact on the financial position and performance of the Group, the new disclosures required has been presented in note 4.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32: These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and is applied retrospectively.
These amendments have no impact on the Group, since none of the entities in the Group has any offsetting arrangements.
Disclosure for Impairment for Non-financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36: This amendment removed certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
Addition the IASB added two disclosure requirements: Additional information about the fair value measurement of impaired assets when the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs ofdisposal Information about the discount rates that have been used when the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal using a present value technique.
The amendments harmonise disclosure requirements between value in use and fair value less costs of disposal These amendments have no impact on the Group, since there are no impairment in non-financial assets.
Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 39: These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required.
These amendments have no impact on the Group as the Group has not novated its derivatives during the current or prior periods.
IFRIC 21 Levies: IFRIC 21 clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs.
For a levy that is triggered upon reaching a minimum threshold, the interpretation clarifies that no liability should be anticipated before the specified minimum threshold is reached.
Retrospective application is required for IFRIC 21.
There was no impact on prior year comparative figures as a result of the application of IFRIC 21.
Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle: In the 2010-2012 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued seven amendments to six standards, which included an amendment to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendment to IFRS 13 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies that in the Basis for Conclusions, short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
This amendment to IFRS 13 has no impact on the Group.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards that it considers will be applicable to the Groups financial statements, when they become effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory.
Earlyapplication of previous versions of IFRS 9 2009, 2010 and 2013 is permitted if the date of initial application is before 1 February 2015.
The Group iscurrently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle: These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
They include: IFRS 3 Business Combinations: The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that all contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities or assets arising from a business combination should be subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss whether or not they fallwithin the scope of IFRS 9 or IAS 39, as applicable.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments: The amendments are applied retrospectively and clarify that: an entity must disclose the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12 of IFRS 8, including a brief description of operating segments that have been aggregated and the economic characteristics e. g. sales and gross margins used to assess whether the segments are similar: and the reconciliation of segment assets to total assets is only required to be disclosed if the reconciliation is reported to the chief operating decision maker, similar to the required disclosure for segment liabilities.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: The amendment is applied retrospectively and clarifies that a management entity an entity that provides key management personnel services is a related party subject to the related party disclosures.
In addition, an entity that uses a management entity isrequired to disclose the expenses incurred for management services.
Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle: These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
They include: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 can be applied not only to financial assets and financial liabilities, but also to other contracts within the scope of IFRS 9 or IAS 39, as applicable.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and provides a model framework to recognise revenue, which is the five step model framework that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with earlyadoption permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
The amendments are effective prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, with early adoption permitted.
These amendments are not expected to have any impact to the Group given that the Group has not used a revenue-based method to depreciate its non-current assets.
Annual improvements 2012-2014 cycle: These improvements are effective from 1 January 2016 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
They include: IFRS 7 Servicing contracts: This amendment clarifies that a servicing contract that includes a fee can constitute continuing involvement in a financial asset.
An entity must assess the nature of the fee and arrangement against the guidance for continuing involvement to assess whether the disclosures are required.
The assessment of continuing involvement is applied retrospectively but disclosures are required prospectively.
IFRS 7 Applicability of the offsetting disclosures to condensed interim financial statements: The amendment, which is applied retrospectively, clarifies that, unless there is a significant update from the most recent annual report, the disclosures required by IFRS 7 in respect of offsetting financial assets and liabilities are not required in the condensed interim financial report.
IAS 19 Discount rate: regional market issue: The amendment clarifies that in determining the discount rate for determining the present value of defined benefit obligations, market depth of high quality corporate bonds is assessed based on the currency in which the obligation is denominated, rather than the country where the obligation is located.
When there is no deep market for high quality corporate bonds in that currency, government bond rates must be used.
This amendment is applied prospectively.
| 170 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements IAS 34 Disclosure of information elsewhere in the interim financial report: The amendment, which is applied retrospectively, states that the required interim disclosures must either be in the interim financial statements or incorporated by cross-reference between the interim financial statements and wherever they are included within the greater interim financial report e. g. in the management commentary or risk report.
The Board specified that the other information within the interim financial report must be available to users on the same terms as the interim financial statements and at the same time.
If users do not have access to the other information in this manner, then the interim financial report is incomplete.
The IASB have issued other amendments to standards, including those resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: Determination of functional currencies note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of projects status note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Stripping costs note 2 e : The Group incurs waste removal costs stripping costs during the development and production phases of its surface mining operations.
During the production phase, stripping costs production stripping costs can be incurred both in relation to the production of inventory in that period and the creation of improved access and mining flexibility in relation to ore to be mined in the future.
The former are included as part of the costs of inventory, while the latter are capitalised as a stripping activity asset, where certain criteria are met.
Significant judgement is required to distinguish between development stripping and production stripping and to distinguish between the production stripping that relates to the extraction of inventory and what relates to the creation of a stripping activity asset.
Once the Group has identified its production stripping for each surface mining operation, it identifies the separate components of the ore bodies for each of its mining operations.
An identifiable component is a specific volume of the ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
Significant judgement is required to identify and define these components, and also to determine the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped and ore to be mined in each of these components.
These assessments are undertaken for each individual mining operation based on the information available in the mine plan.
The mine plans and, therefore, the identification of components, will vary between mines for a number of reasons.
These include, but are not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
Judgement is also required to identify a suitable production measure to be used to allocate production stripping costs between inventory and any stripping activity asset s for each component.
The Group considers that the ratio of the expected tonnes of waste to be stripped for an expected tonnes of ore to be mined for a specific component of the ore body, is the most suitable production measure.
Furthermore, judgements and estimates are also used to apply the units of production method in determining the depreciable lives of the stripping activity asset s. Qualifying assets: All interest-bearing loans are held by the parent Company and were not obtained for any specific assets acquisition, construction, or production.
Due to this financing structure, judgement is required in determining whether those borrowings are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset in subsidiaries.
Funds from these loans are transferred to subsidiaries to meet the strategic objectives of the Group or are otherwise held centrally.
Therefore, management determines whether borrowings are directly attributable to an asset or group of assets based on whether the investment in an operating or development stage project is classified as contributing to achieving the strategic growth of the Group.
Contingencies note 29 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome offuture events.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources, note 2 e : Ore reserves are estimates of the amount of ore that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups mining properties.
The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by appropriately qualified persons relating to the geological and technical data on the size, depth, shape and grade of the ore body and suitable production techniques and recovery rates, in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code 2012.
Such an analysis requires complex geological judgements to interpret the data.
The estimation of recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources is based upon factors such as estimates of commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, future capital requirements and production costs, along with geological assumptions and judgements made in estimating the size and grade of the ore body.
As the economic assumptions used may change and as additional geological information is produced during the operation of a mine, estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources may change.
Such changes may impact the Groups reported balance sheet and income statement including: the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and mining properties may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows, thosecash flows consider both ore reserves and mineral resources: depreciation and amortisation charges in the income statement may change where such charges are determined using the units of production method, or where the useful life of the related assets change: units of production method considers ore reserves: capitalised stripping costs recognised in the income statement as either part of mine properties or as part of inventory or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios: determination of stripping ratios is based on ore reserves: provisions for mine closure costs may change where changes to the ore reserve estimates affect expectations about when such activities will occur and the associated cost of these activities: the recognition and carrying value of deferred income tax assets may change due to changes in the judgements regarding the existence of such assets and in estimates of the likely recovery of such assets.
Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes, notes 2 e and 14: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is used.
Silverstream, note 16: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management.
The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the estimated recoverable ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 33.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 34. Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges, note 2 f : The assessment of asset carrying values requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
Estimation of the mine closure costs, notes 2 l and 24: Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Income tax, notes 2 r and 12: Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
| 172 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements d Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parent Companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of an entity, thedeferred cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual re-assessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-of-production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 6 Plant and equipment 4 Mining properties and development costs 16 Other assets 3 An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project whenincurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part ofabusiness combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained fromthat specific concession.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study hasbeen performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence ofthe probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained, pre-operative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as a mine development cost.
The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation, theinitial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit of production method based on theestimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value, if any.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced, is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Stripping costs In a surface mine operation, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste material in order to gain access to the ore bodies stripping activity.
During development and pre-production phases, the stripping activity costs are capitalised as part of the initial cost of development and construction of the mine the stripping activity asset and charged as depreciation or depletion to cost of sales, in the income statement, based on the mines units of production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a surface mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and commences at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the surface mine.
The removal of waste may occur following initial extraction of saleable material and during the production phase.
This stripping cost is capitalised only ifthe following criteria is met: It is probable that the future economic benefits improved access to an ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to the Group The Group can identify the component of an ore body for which access has been improved The costs relating to the improved access to that component can be measured reliably Stripping activity costs associated with such development activities are capitalised into existing mining development assets, as mining properties and development cost, within property, plant and equipment, using a measure that considers the volume of waste extracted compared with expected volume, for a given volume of ore production.
This measure is known as component stripping ratio, which is revised annually in accordance with the mine plan.
The amount capitalised is subsequently depreciated over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body related to the stripping activity asset, by using the units of production method.
The identification of components and the expected useful lives of those components are evaluated annually.
Depreciation is recognised as cost of sales in the income statement.
The capitalised stripping activity asset is carried at cost less accumulated depletion depreciation, less impairment in value, if any.
Cost includes the accumulation of costs directly incurred to perform the stripping activity that improves access to the identified component of ore, plus an allocation of directly attributable overhead costs.
The costs associated with incidental operations are excluded from the cost of the stripping activity asset.
If not all of the criteria are met, the production stripping costs are charged to the income statement as operating costs as they are incurred.
In identifying components of the ore body, the Group works closely with the mining operations personnel for each mining operation to analyse each of the mine plans.
Generally, a component will be a subset of the total ore body and a mine may have several components that are identified based on the mine plan.
The mine plans and therefore the identification of components can vary between mines for a number of reasons including but not limited to, the type of commodity, the geological characteristics of the ore body, the geographical location and or financial considerations.
| 174 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements f Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to disposal.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
Ifthat is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
g Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: held to maturity investments: available-for-sale financial assets: or loans and receivables or derivatives designated as hedging instruments, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the short term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses arising from changes in fair value, presented as finance costs or finance income in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify astrading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains or losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are fide-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and receivables from contractors are carried at amortised cost.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Loans and borrowings After initial recognition at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are fide-recognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Group shall adjust the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information refer note 23.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is fide-recognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability aresubstantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
h Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
| 176 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and itscurrent fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Inassessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
i Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
An allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such an allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
j Short-term investments Where the Group invests in short-term instruments which are either not readily convertible into known amounts of cash or are subject to risk of changes in value that are not insignificant, these instruments are classified as short-term investments.
k Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
l Provisions Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure, restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, the portion of the increase is charged directly as an expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 177 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued m Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico until it was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
The plan is denominated in Mexican pesos.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared byan independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA Standard & Poors and AAA-mex Fitch Ibca credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Net interest cost is recognised in finance cost and return on plan assets other than amounts reflected in net interest cost is recognised in OCI and permanently excluded from profit or loss.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal orconstructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year end balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised as income orexpense in the period in which they occur.
Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
n Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to 10% of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
| 178 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements o Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A re-assessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset There is a substantial change to the asset Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance oftheliability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on thesame basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a re-assessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the re-assessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. p Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates and other sales taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based onthe market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
The customer deducts treatment and refining charges before settlement.
Therefore, the fair value of consideration received for the sale of goods is net of those charges.
The Group recognises a levy in respect of the Extraordinary Mining Right on a progressive basis as sales of gold and silver are recognised during the fiscal year and deduct from the corresponding sales.
The Extraordinary Mining Right consists of a 0.5% rate, applicable to the owners of mining titles.
The payment must be calculated over the total sales of all mining concessions.
The payment of this mining right must be remitted no later than the last business day of March of the following year and can be credited against corporate income tax.
Extraordinary Mining Right is recorded in selling expenses.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 179 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Other income Other income is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
q Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life Exploration expenses: Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project r Taxation Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the country the Group operates.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are re-assessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Mining Rights The Special Mining Right is considered an income tax recognised in the income statement of the year.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities on temporary differences arising in the determination of the Special Mining Right note 12.
| 180 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Sales tax Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except: when the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable: and when receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
s Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
The Group also entered in a one-off hedging programme to protect the value of Penmonts acquisition as described in note 4 b, using a collar structure to allow partial exposure to gold prices limited up to the attributable reserves acquired from Newmont.
The measures implemented on production at the acquired Penmont assets do not constitute a change in the Groups hedging policy on commodity risk.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The full fair value of a derivative is classified as non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the item is more than 12 months.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Black-Scholes model.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an on-going basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as in other comprehensive income and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains or losses related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk these are included, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised directly as finance costs, in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in other comprehensive income from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in other comprehensive income until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with re-assessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 181 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued t Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes 12 or more months to get ready for its intended use or sale a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Where funds are borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where surplus funds are available for a short term from funds borrowed specifically to finance a project, the income generated from the temporary investment of such amounts is also capitalised and deducted from the total capitalised borrowing cost.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
u Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 33 and 34.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability: or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 33. v Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board as appropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
| 182 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
