Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee is mindful of its responsibility to ensure that External auditor theexternal auditor maintains its independence and objectivity.
It has The primary role of the Audit Committee is to oversee the relationship therefore reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of EY as the with the external auditor.
This, and an assessment of the effectiveness external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of ofthe external audit process, is achieved through: the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external reviewing the terms of engagement of the external auditor: auditor.
The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved.
approving audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit: Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services understanding the allocation of audit resources and the level of above US$150,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit involvement of technical experts: Committee.
This policy was confirmed at the October 2014 meeting discussing the external auditors materiality assessments in relation ofthe Committee.
toour financial statements: In October 2014, the Committee reviewed the non-audit work undertaken challenging the risk and judgement area identification: by EY during the year.
This primarily related to pro forma reporting in reviewing the reporting received from the external auditors and respect of the Penmont acquisition and tax reporting.
The Committee challenging the work done to test managements assumptions was satisfied that the level of work was appropriate andthat the nature inkeyareas of risk and judgement: of the work would not compromise EYs objectivity in respect of future approving representation letters given to the auditors audit work.
by management: The Audit Committees approach to the future plans for both audit firm seeking feedback from management on the effectiveness and audit partner rotation, taking into account the current requirements oftheaudit process: of the UK Corporate Governance Code, associated guidance from the Financial Reporting Council, together with the recent proposals from the periodically commissioning an external review of the European Commission on audit firm rotation and tendering remain on external auditors: track.
Thus, the Committee envisage tendering the external audit after the considering the re-appointment of the external auditors and their 2016 AGM so that an appointment can be made in October 2016 to take independence, including the rotation of the audit partner: and effect for the year commencing 1 January 2017 unless circumstances assessing the need for audit tendering.
The appointment would not be formally confirmed until the As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the 2017 AGM so that the chosen firm would then be in place for the interim Company, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the external review in 2017 as their first audit review activity.
In terms of audit partner auditor in respect of both the financial statements for the six-month rotation, the lead partner for EY in Mexico was replaced during the year, period ending 30 June 2014 and for the year ended 31 December 2014. in line with the partner rotation policy and the Audit Committee oversaw the process for ensuring that the new Mexican audit partner was suitable In 2014, in addition to its regular activities, the Audit Committee: for the role.
The incumbent London partner will be replaced for the 2015 accepted the auditors materiality assessments, but requested that financial year, as he will have been in position for five years.
The new significant items below that level should be brought to our attention London audit partner has already been approved by the Audit Committee onqualitative grounds for further review: and and a handover process agreedfor implementation during 2015. challenged the auditors identification of significant risks.
The Committee reviewed the levels of engagement of other audit firms The Audit Committee met with representatives from EY without and advisors at its October and December meetings.
Details of the fees management present and with management without representatives paid to EY during the year as shown in note 31 to the financial statements of EY present, to ensure that there were no issues in the relationship were US$2.1million of which US$0.1 million were non-audit related between management and the external auditor which it should address.
fees, and the fees paid to other accountants and advisory firms were There were none.
During the year, the Audit Committee continued to monitor the liaison The Committee also considers annually the contracts and commitments between EY and the Companys Internal Audit department which it arising from such engagements to ensure that they would not restrict the believes is improving the efficiency of both the external and internal Committees choice of potential external auditors in a tender process.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC did not review the Companys In February 2015, the Audit Committee considered and recommended 2013 annual report.
The Committee did, however, review their report on the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, to the EY, as a firm, and considered carefully those matters raised which were Board prior to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This review of relevance for Fresnillo plc.
Together with management and EY, the took into account the results of the auditor assessment process, the Committee satisfied itself that any relevant audit matter raised by the FRC quality of the work and communication by the external auditor and the in respect of EY had been correctly performed in the course of the audits level of audit fees.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered IALs of Fresnillo.
review of the actions taken by management and EY in response to the points raised in their 2013 report on EY and concluded that all had been satisfactorily addressed and this was subsequently confirmed by the external reviewer.
| 138 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
