Ore reserves are reported at variable metal equivalent cut-off grades based on metal price assumptions and appropriate metallurgical recoveries.
For the open pit ore reserves, silver grades and contained metal are based on metallurgical production data and have not been estimated.
Cut-off grade calculations assume variable metallurgical recoveries.
Metal price assumptions considered for the calculation of cut-off grades and metal equivalent grades are: Gold US$ oz 1,150.00, Silver US$ oz 18.00, Lead US$ lb 0.95 and Zinc US$ lb 0.95.
1 The cut-off grades for Cinegas reserve varies between the following range: 1.88 to 3.21 g t Au equivalent.
2 Herradura ore reserves are reported at varied cut-offs dependent on material types and grade.
Oxide material above 0.30 g t Au reports to the heap leach, transitional and sulfide material from 0.35 to 0.60 g t Au report to the heap leach, oxide material above 1.14 g t Au reports to the mill, transitional and sulfide material above 0.60 g t Au reports to the mill.
3 The Herradura open pit mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 1.1 g t. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
Based on past production, projected in situ P&P silver in the reserve is 7.41Moz.
4 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.5 g t. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
Based on past production, projected in situ P&P silver in the reserve is 0.61Moz.
5 The Soledad-Dipolos mine has been subject to legal action regarding surface access.
SRK has been provided with documents indicating a reasonable chance that these actions will be settled in favour of the mine.
6 The Noche Buena mine has produced silver at an average concentration of 0.3 g t. Silver is not assayed for and is not estimated in the resource model.
7 Includes Fresnillo Proao, Saucito, Cinega, San Julin and Herradura Vein deposits.
Includes San Julin disseminated deposit.
8 Includes the open pit portion of Herradura, Soledad-Dipolos and Noche Buena deposits.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 253
