Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 5.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
On 1 January 2014, as a part of an internal reorganisation to mitigate risk exposure, the operating entities without being extinguished transferred part of their assets, liabilities and capital through a spin-off into eight new entities.
As a result of the spin-off the Company continues to retain control over the new entities, see note 6.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on3 March 2015.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which considers the realisation of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company is in a net current liability position due to an increase in the intercompany loan.
TheCompanys Directors confirm that Fresnillo plcs subsidiaries have funds and distributable earnings available for distribution sufficient to repay the intercompany loan and to fund other forecast liabilities of the Company to be incurred in the next 12 months.
Further, given that the loan counterparty is a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that it will not request a repayment of the loan until such time as the Company has sufficient cash balances to make the repayment.
As such the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements of the Company is deemed appropriate.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand US$ thousand except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
b Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2013 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2014.
New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Company IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: The standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated, being those investees in which the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Company adopted this standard as at 1 January 2014, as adopted by the European Union.
The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the financial position and performance of the Company.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2012 : As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what remains of IAS 27 does not change the recognition and presentation requirements as it relates to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial statements cost method or fair value and as a result the adoption of this revised standard is not expected to impact the parent Company financial statements.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32: These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and it is applied retrospectively.
These amendments have no impact on the Company, since it does not have any offsetting arrangements.
| 224 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
