Managing our Risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 10.
Human resources Our people are critical to delivering our Recruitment: We assessed our hiring requirements for key Link to strategy objectives.
We face risks in selecting, positions in the 2012-2018 period, and aim to meet openings through 1 Operate recruiting, training and retaining the internal training and promotion, and by recruitment through: 2 Develop peoplewe need.
Our close relationships with universities offering earth sciences 3 Explore The lack of reliable contractors with programmes we have dedicated programmes to identify potential 4 Sustainability adequate infrastructure, machinery, candidates based on performance, who may be hired as interns performance and skilled people is also and or residents on graduation.
Key risk indicators ariskthat might affect our ability to CETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which teaches Number of positions filled developand construct mining works.
specific mining operational skills: ten of the 12 graduates from by area of specialty, for 2014 joined the Company as full-time employees.
We welcomed vacancies and new positions the new cohort of mining technicians with 13 students who will Employee turnover rate graduate in 2015.
Average hours of training and CETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies which trains professional development mechanics and electrical technicians: five of the 2014 graduates per employee joined the Company as full-time employees.
We expect to receive nine students in 2015.
Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strong corporateculture committed to our people, good working conditions, competitive benefits and career development opportunities.
Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts.
Weinvest significantly in training contractors, particularly on safetyand environmental requirements.
We have supported the enrolment of 62 of our contractor companies in their integration into the Self-Management Programme on Safety and Health at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
| 52 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
