Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued m Fair value measurement The Company measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in notes 18 and 19.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: in the principal market for the asset or liability: or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Further information on fair values is described in note 18. n Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Profit or loss attributable to the parent Company The profit for the Company is US$139.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: loss of US$ 292.2 million.
In accordance with the exemption granted under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income statement for the Company has not been presented.
Segment reporting Segmental information is not presented in the Companys stand-alone financial statements as this is presented in the Companys consolidated financialstatements.
Income tax a Income tax reported in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Deferred income tax effect related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net charge credit arising on unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale assets note 7 7,145 17,416 Income tax effect reported in other comprehensive income 7,145 17,416 | 230 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements b The movements in the deferred income tax liability are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Opening net liability 2,245 13,127 Income statement credit charge 12,528 6,534 Net charge credit arising on unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale assets note 7 7,145 17,416 Closing net liability 3,138 2,245 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset as at 31 December considering the nature of the temporary differences are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 US$ thousands US$ thousands Prepayments and other 697 3,591 Derivative financial instruments 5,258 357 Losses carried forward 14,240 Available-for-sale financial assets 5,147 1,703 Net deferred tax balances 3,138 2,245 c Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Company has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$1,528 million 2013: US$1,271 million.
d Corporate Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR and Business Flat Tax ImpuestoEmpresarial a Tasa nica or IETU The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes.
In December 2013 a new Tax Reform was enacted, effective as from 1 January 2014.
As a result of such Tax Reform, a new Income Tax Law ISR was enacted and the IETU Law was abolished.
Among others, the new ISR includes: certain payments to related parties, that do not comply with specific legal requirements would be considered as non-deductible: and a dividend withholding tax of 10% tax on distributions of dividends paid to Mexican individuals as well as foreign residents.
Dividends between Mexican resident entities are not subject to tax at the shareholder level.
The corporate income tax rate for 2013 and future years, under the new ISR, remains at 30%.
Previously enacted reductions of the tax rate over the next two years to 28% were repealed.
IETU was an alternative minimum corporate income tax, effective from 1 January 2008 through 31 December 2013.
Companies were required to pay the greater of their mainstream corporate income tax liability for the year or their liability to IETU which was calculated at the rate of 17.5% and applied to the sale of goods, rendering of independent services and temporary use or enjoyment of goods.
In calculating the charge to IETU, deductions were allowed for certain expenses incurred in generating income.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 231
