Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 6.
Projects Pursuing advanced exploration and Our investment evaluation process determines how to best direct Link to strategy development opportunities, which are core available capital using technical, financial and qualitative criteria.
to meeting our strategic goals, carry certain Technical: we assess the resource estimate and confirmed 2 Develop project-related risks: resources, metallurgy of the mineral bodies, investment required Economic viability: impact of capital cost in general infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general services, to develop and maintain the mine, future housing and infrastructure required for the mine and plant.
metal prices and operating costs through Key risk indicators Financial: we look at risk relative to return for proposed the mines life cycle.
We set expected internal rates ofreturn Earned value rate of financial Uncertainties associated with IRR per project as thresholds for approving the allocation of advancement rate vs developing and operating new mines capital based on the present value of expected cash flows from physical advancement and expansion projects: fluctuations the invested capital.
Percentage of major in ore grade and recovery, unforeseen Qualitative factors: e. g. alignment of the investment with equipment ordered and complexities in the mining process, poor our strategic plan and business model: synergies with other received according to plan rock quality, unexpected presence of investments and operating assets: implications for safety, Percentage of completion water, lack of community support, and security, people, resourcing and community relations.
ofmine development inability to obtain and maintain required We closely monitor our project controls to ensure we deliver operating permits.
approved projects on time, on budget and as per defined Delivery risk: projects may go over budget specifications.
The Executive Management team and Board of in terms of cost and time, or may not Directors are regularly updated on progress.
Each advanced be constructed in accordance with the exploration project and major capital development project has a required specifications, or major mining risk register containing the identified and assessed risks specific equipment may not be delivered on time.
In 2012, the Board approved the San Julin silver-gold project with an investment of US$515 million: San Julin is expected to produce an average of 10.3 million ounces of silver and 44,000 ounces of gold per year once at full capacity.
At the end of 2014, the physical advance was 45%, according to plan: the expenses incurred and committed were on budget.
The major risk factor specific to this project is to determine a sufficient water supply for when the mine becomes operational: the Company has begun to develop engineering plans as well as obtaining permits for the construction ofa dam and or adeepwell.
In 2013 the Board approved the Saucito II project with an investment of US$235 million: Saucito is expected to produce 8.4 million ounces of silver and 35,000 ounces of gold per year once at full capacity.
InDecember 2014, the treatment plant commenced operations, andwe expect to ramp up production according to plan in 2015.
At the Centauro Deep project exploration continued in 2014, but additional exploration activities are required to accurately define the ore bodies.
The major risk driver at the Orisyvo project is metallurgical recovery.
We continue researching andperforming tests on mineral processing options.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 49
