Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed in note 6.
The Company is a Mexican resident for taxation purposes with tax residency in Mexico City.
For further information see note 5.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 75% of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
The country of incorporation of Peoles is Mexico.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
The primary activity of the Company is as holding company for the Fresnillo Group of companies.
On 1 January 2014, as a part of an internal reorganisation to mitigate risk exposure, the operating entities without being extinguished transferred part of their assets, liabilities and capital through a spin-off into eight new entities.
As a result of the spin-off the Company continues to retain control over the new entities, see note 6.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on3 March 2015.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which considers the realisation of assets and satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company is in a net current liability position due to an increase in the intercompany loan.
TheCompanys Directors confirm that Fresnillo plcs subsidiaries have funds and distributable earnings available for distribution sufficient to repay the intercompany loan and to fund other forecast liabilities of the Company to be incurred in the next 12 months.
Further, given that the loan counterparty is a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that it will not request a repayment of the loan until such time as the Company has sufficient cash balances to make the repayment.
As such the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements of the Company is deemed appropriate.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand US$ thousand except when otherwise indicated.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented unless otherwise stated.
b Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2013 except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2014.
New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted by the Company IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: The standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated, being those investees in which the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement, and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
The Company adopted this standard as at 1 January 2014, as adopted by the European Union.
The adoption of this standard did not have any impact on the financial position and performance of the Company.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2012 : As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, what remains of IAS 27 does not change the recognition and presentation requirements as it relates to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial statements cost method or fair value and as a result the adoption of this revised standard is not expected to impact the parent Company financial statements.
Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32: These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting and it is applied retrospectively.
These amendments have no impact on the Company, since it does not have any offsetting arrangements.
| 224 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Disclosure for Impairment for Non-financial Assets Amendments to IAS 36: This amendment removed certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
In addition the IASB added two disclosure requirements: Additional information about the fair value measurement of impaired assets when the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs ofdisposal Information about the discount rates that have been used when the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal using a present value technique.
The amendments harmonise disclosure requirements between value in use and fair value less costs of disposal Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting Amendments to IAS 39: These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging instrument meets certain criteria and retrospective application is required.
These amendments have no impact on the Company as the Company has not novated its derivatives during the current or prior periods.
Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle: In the 2010-2012 annual improvements cycle, the IASB issued seven amendments to six standards, whichincluded an amendment to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The amendment to IFRS 13 is effective immediately and, thus, for periods beginning at 1 January 2014, and it clarifies in the Basis for Conclusions that short-term receivables and payables with no stated interest rates can be measured at invoice amounts when the effect of discounting is immaterial.
This amendment to IFRS 13 has no impact on the Company.
Standards, interpretations and amendments issued but not yet effective The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Companys financial statements are disclosed below.
The Company intends to adopt these standards that it considers will be applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and provides a model framework to recognise revenue, which is the five step model framework that will apply to revenue arising from contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15 revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
The principles in IFRS 15 provide a more structured approach to measuring and recognising revenue.
The new revenue standard is applicable to all entities and will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS.
Either a full or modified retrospective application is required for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: In July 2014, the IASB issued the final version of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which reflects all phases of the financial instruments project and replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and all previous versions of IFRS 9.
The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
Retrospective application is required, but comparative information is not compulsory.
Early application of previous versions of IFRS 9 2009, 2010 and 2013 is permitted if the date of initial application is before 1 February 2015.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 9 and plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective date.
Annual improvements 2010-2012 cycle: These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company.
They include: IFRS 3 Business Combinations: The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that all contingent consideration arrangements classified as liabilities or assets arising from a business combination should be subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss whether or not they fallwithin the scope of IFRS 9 or IAS 39, as applicable.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures: The amendment is applied retrospectively and clarifies that a management entity an entity that provides key management personnel services is a related party subject to the related party disclosures.
In addition, an entity that uses a management entity isrequired to disclose the expenses incurred for management services.
Annual improvements 2011-2013 cycle: These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company.
They include: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: The amendment is applied prospectively and clarifies that the portfolio exception in IFRS 13 can be applied not only to financial assets and financial liabilities, but also to other contracts within the scope of IFRS 9 or IAS 39, as applicable.
Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements: The amendments will allow entities to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in their separate financial statements.
Entities already applying IFRS and electing to change to the equity method in its separate financial statements will have to apply that change retrospectively.
For first-time adopters of IFRS electing to use the equity method in its separate financial statements, they will be required to apply this method form the date of transition to IFRS.
These amendments will not have any impact on the Companys financial statements.
The IASB has issued other amendments resulting from improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Company.
The Company has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that was issued but is not yet effective.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 225 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Companys financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is in the accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Determination of functional currency note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Contingencies note 14 : By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of the existence and potential quantum of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty made by management in preparing the financial information statements include: Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets notes 2 g and 7: The Company classifies certain financial asset as available-for-sale and recognises movements in their fair value in equity.
When the fair value declines, management makes assumptions about the decline in value to determine whether it is an impairment that should be recognised in profit or loss.
At 31 December 2014 impairment loss of US$0.9 million has been recognised relating to available-for-sale assets 2013: US$2.1 million.
Impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries notes 2 e and 6: The Company assesses the investments in subsidiaries annually to determine whether any indication of impairment exists.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD and the value in use.
A value in use assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction in an orderly sale transaction between market participants.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, the Company assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of that investment, requiring similar estimates and assumptions as those for determining an impairment charge.
At 31 December 2014, impairment losses of US$130,169 have been recognised relating to subsidiaries 2013: US$628.0 million.
d Foreign currency translation The Companys financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company.
The functional currency for the Company is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair valued is determined.
e Investments in subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls operating and financial policies and is exposed to, or has the right to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
When the Company incurs increases in or return of share capital, to from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised as an addition or return of capital to the original cost recognised in investment in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use.
When this information is not available the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
| 226 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to profit or loss to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed that that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
f Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Company recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are classified at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Financial assets are offset with liabilities and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets and liabilities classified as held-for-trading and other assets or liabilities designated as fair value transactions through profit and loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets or liabilities are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments, as defined by IAS 39.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are fide-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Loans and borrowings After initial recognition, net of directly attributable transaction costs, interest-bearing loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the income statement.
Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss, in the income statement, when the liabilities are fide-recognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process.
The Company shall adjust the carrying amount of the financial liability to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows.
The carrying amount is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future cash flows at the financial instruments original effective interest rate or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate.
Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as income or expense.
This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans.
For more information refer note 12.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held-to-maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses being recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is fide-recognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, suchthat the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 227 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
g Impairment of financial assets The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Company first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, andindividually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists foran individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and forwhich an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Company will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Company considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged by considering the size of the decline in this value, the historic volatility in changes in fair value and the duration of the sustained decline.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
h Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest atthe respective short-term deposit rates between one day and four months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
i Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the net proceeds received, which is the fair value of the consideration received less costs that are incurred in connection with the share issue.
The nominal par value of the shares issued is taken to the share capital account and any excess is recorded in the share premium account, including the costs that were incurred with the share issue.
j Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates and other sales taxes.
Trademark royalties Trademark royalty income is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method: i. e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive the payment is established.
| 228 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements k Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are re-assessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
l Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Company enters into derivative contracts in order to manage certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange and commodity prices which impact the financial and business transactions of its subsidiaries.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
In the Groups consolidated financial statements these derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges but for the purposes of the Companys stand-alone financial statements the related hedged items are not held by the Company, so do not qualify as cash flow hedges.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black-Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type ofderivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Company first becomes party to the contract, with re-assessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 229
