Managing our Risks continued Risk description and context Risk response mitigation Risk and strategy 1.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments There could be an adverse impact on Fresnillos hedging policy remains guided by the principle of providing Link to strategy our sales and profit, and potentially shareholders with full exposure to gold and silver prices.
However, 1 Operate the economic viability of projects, from following shareholder approval for the acquisition of 44% of 2 Develop macroeconomic developments such as: Penmont and associated companies, we initiated a one-off hedging 3 Explore programme to protect the value of the investment made in the A decrease in precious metal prices acquisition, using a collar structure to allow partial exposure to gold primary driver of the risk : this was the prices.
The volume associated with this phased hedging programme case for silver and gold in 2014, with a Key risk indicators is strictly limited to up to the 44% on production at the acquired decline of 18.5% and 10.3% respectively, Gross profit sensitivity to Penmont assets and will not be extended to other assets in the in their annual average price over the % change in metals price Group.
For more details, see Financial Review page 97. previous year.
EBITDA sensitivity to Fresnillo is not precluded from entering into derivatives to minimise Continued volatility in gold and % change inmetals price its exposure to changes in the prices of lead and zinc by-products.
In2014, the Group entered into a zero cost collar structure to mitigate Adverse fluctuations in MXN USD the risk related to the sale of lead and zinc, hedging 2,261 tonnes and exchange rates orother foreign currencies.
Seenote 33 in the Financial Statements General inflation in Mexico, which was page214.
4.08% in Mexican pesos in 2014: the Furthermore, we have hedging policies in place for foreign exchange specific inflation affecting the Company risk, including currencies impacting equipment purchase commitments was 1.6% in US dollar terms.
denominated ineuros and Swedish krona.
The Company entered A decrease in the price of by-products.
into a number of foreign exchange contracts with a closing position This was thecase for lead in 2014 with of US$121 thousands of euro-denominated forward contracts and a decline of 3.8% in theannual average US$359 thousands of Swedish krona-denominated contracts.
In response to inflationary pressures we engage suppliers in long-term contracts to maintain our position as a low cost producer and control the impact of the rising cost of our maininputs.
Access to land Link to strategy Given our growth strategy and exploration Fresnillo plc acquired 481 hectares of surface land for the plan, failure or significant delays in accessing SanJulinproject and 321 hectares of surface land for other 1 Operate the surface over our mineral concessions exploration projects prospects in 2014.
To maximise our 2 Develop and other land of interest is a persistent opportunities for successful land access we: 3 Explore risk with a potentially high impact on Plan well in advance for land requirements and acquisitions our objectives.
Potential barriers to land e. g. anticipating any issues with a potential land purchase accessinclude: before intensive exploration.
In certain areas of interest, Key risk indicators Rising expectations of land owners.
leasingagreements with purchase options are negotiated.
Percentage of land required Refusal to acknowledge prior land Foster strong community relations through investment in for advanced exploration acquisition terms and conditions by community programmes and infrastructure.
Such investments projects that has been members of an agrarian community.
totalled US$2.21 million in 2014. purchased overall and Influence of multiple special interests Always seek tri-party cooperation between the government, by project inland negotiations.
community and ourselves in securing access to land.
Total US$ and percentage Conflicts in land boundaries with an Early involvement of the community relations teams during of project budget spend on oftenarduous resolution process.
HSECR activities, including community relations Succession issues among land owners As previously reported, the Company continues to conduct a atprojects and exploration resulting in a lack of clarity about the comprehensive review of the legal status of its land rights in order legalentitlement to possess and sell land.
to mitigate or eliminate litigation risk.
This review is on-going and certain legal aspects have been identified.
We are in the process Litigation risk i. e. greater activism by of implementing measures to manage this risk on a case-byjudicial authorities.
As part of these measures, in November 2014, the Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts in Company purchased the land known as Cerro fide la Herradura, ourexploration operation areas increase which forms part of the Penmont unit, working with the agrarian thecomplexity of land access.
community to extract the land from the agrarian domain and placing itinto the commercial domain dominio pleno.
Continue working with our land negotiation teams, comprising six negotiators hired directly by Fresnillo and seven provided by Peoles as part of theservice agreement.
| 46 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
