Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR Directors Authority to Allot IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and If you are in any doubt about the contents of this document unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with or the action you should take, you should immediately consult section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company independent professional advisor authorised under the Financial or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United shares in the company: Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately authorised i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 129,299,000: and independent financial advisor.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in G4S plc, please send this notice and ii comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of the accompanying documents to the person through whom the the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of sale or transfer was effected so that it can be passed on to the 129,299,000 provided that they are offered by way of purchaser or transferee.
a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of G4S plc determine where the equity securities respectively will be held at The Platinum Suite, ExCeL London, One Western attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL on Thursday, 4 June proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the 2015 at 11.00 am in order to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to following Resolutions: be held by them on any such record date s, subject to such Resolutions 1 to 15 and Resolution 18 will be proposed as exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 16, 17 and 19 will be proposed deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, as special resolutions.
fractional entitlements, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under Report and Accounts the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant 1.
To receive the financial statements of the company for the year regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: ended 31 December 2014 and the reports of the directors provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the and auditor thereon.
next Annual General Meeting of the company, save that the Remuneration company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report, other than the the expiry of such authority which would or might require part containing the summary of the Directors Remuneration relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Policy, as set out in the companys annual report and accounts directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant for the year ended 31 December 2014. to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexpired authorities granted previously to the Dividend directors to allot relevant securities under section 551 of the 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual 2014 of 5.82p DKK 0.6041 for each ordinary share in the General Meeting save to the extent that the same are capital of the company.
exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Act by reason Directors of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this 4.
To re-elect Ashley Almanza as a director.
Resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
To re-elect John Connolly as a director.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant 6.
To re-elect Adam Crozier as a director.
to section 570 of the Act, subject to the passing of Resolution 15 7.
To re-elect Mark Elliott as a director.
above, to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8.
To re-elect Winnie Kin Wah Fok as a director.
15 above as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such 9.
To re-elect Himanshu Raja as a director.
allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: 10.
To re-elect Paul Spence as a director.
i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue of equity securities but in the case of the 11.
To re-elect Clare Spottiswoode as a director.
authority granted under paragraph ii of Resolution 15 12.
To re-elect Tim Weller as a director.
above, by way of rights issue only to or in favour of the holders of shares on the register of members at such Auditor record date s as the directors may determine where the 13.
To appoint  LLP as auditor of the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual of the shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may General Meeting of the company.
be practicable to the respective numbers of shares held 14.
To authorise the audit committee of the board to determine by them on any such record date s, but subject to such the remuneration of the auditor.
exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 165 165 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph of the company provided that the authorised sum referred to i above of equity securities pursuant to the authority in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may be comprised of one granted under Resolution 15 i above up to a maximum or more amounts in different currencies which, for the nominal amount of 38,788,000: purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London and shall expire on the expiry of the authority conferred by edition of the Financial Times on the date on which the Resolution 15 above unless previously renewed, varied or relevant donation is made or expenditure incurred or the first revoked by the company in general meeting, save that the business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day in which the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before company enters into any contract or undertaking in relation the expiry of such power which would or might require equity to the same.
securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity Notice Period for General Meetings Other Than AGMs securities or sell treasury shares pursuant to any such offer or 19.
That a general meeting of the company, other than an Annual agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
All previous unutilised authorities under section 570 of the Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
By order of the board Authority to Purchase Own Shares Peter David 17.
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally Company Secretary authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 26 March 2015 Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the The Manor company on such terms and in such manner as the directors Manor Royal may from time to time determine, provided that: Crawley i the maximum number of such shares which may be West Sussex RH10 9UN purchased is 155,159,000: Company No.
4992207 ii the minimum price which may be paid for each such share is 25p exclusive of all expenses : Notes iii the maximum price which may be paid for each such share 1.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their market quotations for an ordinary share in the company behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided List for the five business days immediately preceding the that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached day on which such share is contracted to be purchased to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy exclusive of expenses : and need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy iv this authority shall, unless previously revoked or varied, instructions accompanies this notice or will have been sent expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to you separately by post unless you have elected to receive of the company to be held in 2016 except in relation to shareholder communications electronically.
Proxy instructions the purchase of such shares the contract for which was may also be given by using the registrars share portal at entered into before the expiry of this authority and which www.
might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are set out in the notes to Authority to Make Political Donations the proxy form.
In order to be valid, an appointment of proxy 18.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Act, must be returned with any power of attorney or any other the company and all companies which are subsidiaries of the authority under which it is executed, by one of the following company during the period when this Resolution 18 has methods: in hard copy form by post to Capita Asset Services, effect be and are hereby unconditionally authorised to: PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF: in hard copy form to that address by courier or by hand during usual i make political donations to political parties or business hours: or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising independent election candidates not exceeding the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described 50,000 in total: in paragraphs 8 and 9 below.
In each case the form of proxy ii make political donations to political organisations other must be received by the company no later than 11.00 am on than political parties not exceeding 50,000 in total: and 2 June 2015.
To change your proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment using the method set out above.
iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total: The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies as such terms are defined in the Act during the period in relation to amended instructions.
Persons listed on the VP beginning with the date of the passing of this Resolution and Securities register should follow the instructions on their ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Voting Request Form.
166 166 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 3.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument 10.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in he she wishes to do so.
CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of 4.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in as to the exercise of voting rights.
particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 5.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply 11.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that paragraph in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General 12.
Voting on all Resolutions will be conducted by way of a Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the poll rather than a show of hands.
This is a more transparent company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be method of voting as shareholders votes are to be counted registered in the Register of Members of the company at according to the number of shares held.
As soon as practicable 5.30pm on 2 June 2015 or, in the event of any adjournment, following the Annual General Meeting, the results of the voting on the date which is two working days before the time of the at the meeting and the numbers of proxy votes cast for and adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after against and the number of votes actively withheld in respect the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the of each of the Resolutions will be announced via a Regulatory rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Information Service and also placed on the companys 7.
As at 25 March 2015 being the latest practicable date prior website: www.
to the publication of this Notice the companys issued share 13.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one capital consisted of 1,551,594,436 ordinary shares, carrying or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the company behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they as at 25 March 2015 was 1,551,594,436. do not do so in relation to the same shares.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 14.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may requirements set out in that section have the right to require do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual the company to publish on a website a statement setting out available via www.
CREST Personal any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which on their behalf.
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 9.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using section 437 of the Act.
The company may not require the the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, Where the company is required to place a statement on a and must contain the information required for such instruction, website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of statement to the companys auditor not later than the time whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an when it makes the statement available on the website.
The amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed business which may be dealt with at the Annual General proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be Meeting includes any statement that the company has been received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11.00am on 2 June required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 167 167 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 15.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask Important Information about Attending the questions.
The company must cause to be answered any such Annual General Meeting question relating to the business being dealt with at the If you are a shareholder and you have received an admission card, meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so you should bring it with you if you wish to attend the Annual would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting General Meeting.
If you do not have an admission card you should or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the bring photographic proof of identity.
answer has already been given on a website in the form of If you are attending as a proxy of a shareholder, your appointment an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests as a proxy must be with our registrar, Capita Asset Services, no of the company or the good order of the meeting that the later than 11.00 am on 2 June 2015.
If you are attending as a question be answered.
representative of a corporate shareholder, you must bring a 16.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting currently dated corporate letter of representation as evidence of the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to your entitlement to attend on behalf of that corporate shareholder.
require the company i to give, to members of the company In either case you should bring photographic proof of identity entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution and evidence of your appointment to represent that shareholder, which those members intend to move and which may properly including their admission card if possible.
If you hold your shares be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business through a nominee, you must bring photographic proof of identity to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a and evidence of your share ownership in the form of a currently proposed resolution which may properly be included in the dated latter from your nominee.
A resolution may properly be moved, or The Annual General Meeting is a private meeting of the a matter properly included in the business, unless a in the case shareholders and their properly authorised representatives.
of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether Guests are not entitled to attend the meeting as of right but they by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment of the may be permitted entry at the absolute discretion of the company.
companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of Shareholders wishing to bring a guest must notify the company any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made in advance by contacting the registrar, Capita Asset Services, pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the @capita.
co. uk who will advise of the matter to be included in the business, must be authenticated by companys decision on the request.
Any permitted guests will be the person s making it and must be received by the company required to bring photographic proof of identity and to enter the not later than 22 April 2015, being the date six clear weeks meeting venue at the same time as the shareholder.
before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement Behaviour that may interfere with anyones security or safety or the setting out the grounds for the request.
good order of the meeting will not be permitted.
Security checks will be carried out on those attending the meeting.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by good time before the meeting commences to allow sufficient time section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
com for checks to be carried out.
Those wishing to attend should be 18.
Any electronic address or web site address is provided in prepared to have any bags or briefcases inspected.
Please do not this Notice of Meeting solely for the purpose stated expressly bring suitcases, large bags or rucksacks.
If you do, you may be asked herein and may not be used to communicate with the to leave them in the cloakroom.
company other than for such purpose.
Notwithstanding any Cameras, recording equipment and electronic communication telephone number, fax number or email address that appears equipment including mobile phones, tablets and laptops will not on this document or elsewhere, neither the company nor be permitted in the meeting.
There will be secure storage facilities Capita Asset Services will accept voting instructions received available where mobile phones and other small items of personal via media other than by post, courier or hand, or by CREST equipment may be deposited.
Proxy Instruction in accordance with the notes above.
An explanation of the Resolutions is given in the Recommendation and Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions which are set out after the Important Information about Attending the Annual General Meeting.
168 168 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 Recommendation and explanatory notes relating to business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2015 The board of G4S plc considers that the Resolutions set out in the 5.
Appointment of auditor and auditors remuneration Notice of Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success Resolutions 13 and 14 of the company and are in the best interests of the company and its Resolution 13 relates to the appointment of  shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend LLP PwC as the companys auditor to hold office until the next that you vote in favour of the Resolutions as they intend to do in Annual General Meeting of the company.
PwC was selected by the respect of their own beneficial holdings.
board upon the recommendation of the audit committee following a formal tender process which is described on page 68 of the companys Explanatory notes in relation to the business to be conducted at 2014 Annual Report, and consequently KPMG Audit plc, the companys the Annual General Meeting are set out below.
current auditor, has confirmed that they will not seek reappointment.
The ordinary resolutions Resolutions 1 to 15 and 18 will be Their term of office will therefore expire at the conclusion of the 2015 passed if there are more votes cast for the resolution than those Annual General Meeting.
The special resolutions Resolutions 16, 17 and 19 Resolution 14 authorises the Audit Committee to set the auditors will be passed if at least 75% of the votes cast for and against the remuneration.
Authority to allot shares Resolution 15 1.
Financial statements of the company Resolution 1 Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval for the directors to be The chairman will present the financial statements of the company authorised to allot shares.
for the year ended 31 December 2014 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon to the Annual General Meeting.
At the last Annual General Meeting of the company held on 5 June 2014, the directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in 2.
Remuneration Resolution 2 the capital of the company up to a maximum nominal amount of Resolution 2 is the resolution to approve the directors 258,598,000.
This authority expires at the end of this years Annual remuneration report, other than the part containing a summary General Meeting.
Of this amount 517,196,000 shares could only be of the directors remuneration policy pages 72 to 77 which was allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
As this is an advisory resolution, it does not affect the future Resolution 15 will, if passed, renew this authority to allot on the remuneration paid to any director.
same terms as last years resolution.
The board considers it appropriate that the directors be granted the same authority to 3.
Final dividend Resolution 3 allot shares in the capital of the company up to a maximum nominal A final dividend of 5.82p DKK 0.6041 per ordinary share for the amount of 258,598,000, representing a little under two thirds of year ended 31 December 2014 is recommended for payment by the the companys issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2015 directors.
If the recommended final dividend is approved, it will be the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of paid on Friday 12 June 2015 to all ordinary shareholders who were Annual General Meeting.
Of this amount, 517,196,000 shares, on the register of members at the close of business on 8 May 2015. representing a little under one third of the companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 12 The authority will last until the conclusion of the next Annual Resolutions 4 to 12 deal with the re-election of the directors in General Meeting in 2016. accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code which provides for all directors of FTSE 350 The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this companies to be subject to re-election by shareholders every year.
In accordance with best practice, if the directors were to Grahame Gibson and Mark Seligman will retire from the board at exercise this authority so as to allot shares representing more than the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and so they are not one third of the current capital of the company, they would all offer seeking re-election.
themselves for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting, although it is the directors current intention to stand for election Biographies of each of the directors seeking re-election are set out annually in any event in accordance with the requirements of the on pages 52 to 53 of the companys 2014 Annual Report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code.
board has confirmed following a performance review that all directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively As at the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the company in treasury.
However, the 6,408,450 shares held within the G4S Employee Benefit Trust and referred to on page 151 note 36 to the consolidated financial statements are accounted for as treasury shares.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 169 169 Recommendation and explanatory notes related to business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting on 4 June 2015 continued 7.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights 8.
Purchase of own shares Resolution 17 Resolution 17 seeks to renew the companys authority to buy back Resolution 16 its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Act.
The Resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval to give the directors authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a authority to allot equity securities in the capital of the company maximum of 155,159,000 representing a little less than 10% of the pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 15 for cash companys issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2015 the without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Companies Act 2006 the Act in certain circumstances.
This authority will latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This permit the directors to allot: authority will expire at the conclusion of the companys Annual a equity securities up to a nominal amount of 258,598,000 General Meeting in 2016. representing a little under two thirds of the companys issued The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority share capital on an offer to existing shareholders.
However to purchase the companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter unless the shares are allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather under review, taking into account the financial resources of the than an open offer, the directors may only allot shares up to a company, the companys share price and future funding nominal amount of 129,299,000 representing a little under opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors one third of the companys issued share capital in each case believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per subject to any adjustments, such as for fractional entitlements share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
No and overseas shareholders, as the directors see fit : and shares were purchased pursuant to the equivalent authority granted b equity securities up to a maximum nominal value of to the directors at the companys last Annual General Meeting.
38,788,000 representing approximately 10% of the issued As at 25 March 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the ordinary share capital of the company as at 25 March 2015 publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, there were the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice no options over the ordinary shares in the capital of the company.
of Annual General Meeting otherwise than in connection with an offer to existing shareholders.
Political donations Resolution 18 This disapplication authority is in line with institutional shareholder Resolution 18 deals with the rules on political donations contained guidance, and in particular with the Pre-emption Groups Statement in the Act.
Under these rules, political donations to any political of Principles the Pre-emption Principles.
The Pre-emption parties, independent election candidates or political organisations Principles were revised in 2015 to allow the authority for an issue or the incurring of political expenditure are prohibited unless of shares otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer authorised by shareholders in advance.
What constitutes a political to be increased from 5% to 10% of the companys issued ordinary donation, a political party, a political organisation, or political share capital, provided that the company confirms that it intends expenditure is not easy to decide, as the legislation is capable to use the additional 5% authority only in connection with an of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of acquisition or specified capital investment.
The directors therefore expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties, and confirm, in accordance with the Pre-emption Principles that, to the support for bodies representing the business community in policy extent that the authority in paragraph ii of Resolution 16 is used review or reform, may fall within this.
for an issue of ordinary shares with a nominal value in excess of Therefore, notwithstanding that the company has not made political 19,394,000 that is approximately 5% of the companys issued donations requiring shareholder authority in the past, and has no ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2015, they intend that it will intention either now or in the future of making any such political only be used in connection with an acquisition or specified capital donation or incurring any such political expenditure in respect of investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue, any political party, political organisation or independent election or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is candidate, the board has decided to put forward Resolution 18, disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
which is the same as the resolution on this subject which was The directors also confirm, in accordance with the Pre-emption passed at the companys Annual General Meeting held on 5 June Principles, that they do not intend to issue shares for cash 2014.
This will allow the company to support the community and representing more than 7.5% of the companys issued ordinary put forward its views to wider business and government interests share capital in any rolling three-year period other than to existing without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
This authority shareholders, save as permitted in connection with an acquisition will cover the period from the date Resolution 18 is passed until or specified capital investment as described above, without prior the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 18 also covers political donations made, or political expenditure incurred, by any As noted in relation to Resolution 15 above, the directors have subsidiaries of the company.
no current intention of exercising this authority.
The authority contained in Resolution 16 will expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 15 i. e. at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
170 170 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 10.
Period of notice for calling general meetings Resolution 19 Resolution 19 is a resolution to allow the company to hold general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
The minimum notice period permitted by the Act for general meetings other than Annual General Meetings is 21 days.
However the Act allows companies to reduce this period to 14 days other than for Annual General Meetings provided that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 19 as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the company other than Annual General Meetings.
The approval will be effective until the companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The board will consider on a case by case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive, and will balance that against the need for shareholders to consider their voting decisions, particularly where the proposals concerned are complex and may require more time for proper evaluation.
Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014 G4S plc G4S plc 171 171
