Directors responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Directors responsibility statement Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on pages annual report and the financial statements 52 and 53 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report her knowledge: and the group and parent company financial statements in the financial statements in this annual report have been prepared accordance with applicable law and regulations.
in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law profit of the company and the group taken as a whole: and they are required to prepare the group financial statements in the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R contained in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law the Strategic Report and the Directors report includes a fair and have elected to prepare the parent company financial review of the development and performance of the business statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
and the position of the company and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the directors must not approve the financial they face.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and The Strategic Report from the inside front cover to page 50 of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the and pages 89 to 95 includes information on the group structure, the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are performance of the business and the principal risks and required to: uncertainties it faces.
The financial statements on pages 99 to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 164 include information on the group and the companys financial consistently: results, financial outlook, cash flow and net debt and balance sheet make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: positions.
Notes 22, 26, 27, 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial for the group financial statements, state whether they have been statements include information on the groups investments, cash and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management for the parent company financial statements, state whether objective, hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
In addition to the above, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent the directors have considered the groups cash flow forecast for the company financial statements: and next 12 months.
The directors are satisfied that these cash flow prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the associated with them and the groups current funding and facilities parent company will continue in business.
and its funding strategy show that the group will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Accordingly, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any group and the company will continue to operate within the level time the financial position of the parent company and enable them of available funding for the foreseeable future and it is therefore to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as financial statements.
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, performance, business model and strategy.
Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance The statement of directors responsibilities and the Strategic statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Report was approved by a duly authorised committee of the board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of directors on 26 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by of the corporate and financial information included on the Himanshu Raja, chief financial officer.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Himanshu Raja and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Chief Financial Officer in other jurisdictions.
26 March 2015 88 88 G4S plc G4S plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2014 Accounts 2014
