FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, In our opinion, GKN plcs Company financial statements the in our opinion: financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs require for our audit: or as at 31 December 2014: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Companies Act 2006. remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited GKN plcs financial statements comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Balance sheet of GKN plc as at 31 December 2014: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a Directors remuneration summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced Companies Act 2006. from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and United in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report Accounting Practice.
Other required reporting Responsibilities for the financial statements Consistency of other information and the audit Companies Act 2006 opinion Our responsibilities and those of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Directors report for the financial year for which the financial responsibilities set out on page 102, the Directors are responsible statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & information in the Annual Report is: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 course of performing our audit: or of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
158 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 23 February 2015 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 159
