6 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Where we operate Key Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products Corporate office Marketing A global diversified natural resources company Diversity by geography: Operations around the world spanning a global network of more than 90 offices located in over 50 countries, employing around 181,000 people, including contractors.
Diversity by product and activity: Weproduce and market over 90 commodities from around 150 mining and metallurgical sites, oil production assets andagricultural facilities.
We are organised into 3 distinct business segments, consistent with managements oversight and accountability and conducive to ensuring value is extracted at every point of the operating chain: Metals and minerals Copper, zinc lead, nickel, ferroalloys, alumina aluminium and iron ore production and marketing.
We have interests in both controlled and noncontrolled industrial assets that include mining, smelting, refining andwarehousing operations.
Energy products Coal and oil industrial and marketing.
Our Energy products businesses include controlled and noncontrolled coal mining and oil production operations and investments in strategic handling, storage and freight equipment and facilities.
Agricultural products Focused on grains, oils oilseeds, cotton andsugar.
Our Agricultural products group is supported by both controlled and non-controlled storage, handling and processing facilities in strategic locations.
7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 1 2 Revenue by geography 2014 Non-current assets by region 2014 Americas Americas Asia Asia Europe Europe $91bn $221bn Africa Africa Oceania Oceania 1 Revenue by geographic destination is based on the country of incorporation 2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
counterpartys ultimate parent and or final destination of the product.
