204 Glencore Annual Report 2014 Shareholder information Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters in Switzerland and operations around the world.
Box 777 CH-6341 Baar Switzerland Registered Office Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier Jersey JE1 1ES The Company has a primary quote on the London Stock Exchange LSE and a secondary quote on both the JohannesburgStock Exchange JSE and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange HKEx.
Share registrar Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES Channel Islands Tel.
: 44 0 870 707 4040 Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa Tel.
: 27 0 11 370 5000 Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Hopewell Centre 46th Floor 183 Queens Road East Wan Chai Hong Kong Tel.
: 852 2862 8628 Enquiries Company Secretary John Burton john.
com Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel.
com Forward looking statements This document contains statements that are, or may be Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, deemed to be, forward looking statements which are officers or advisers, provides any representation, assurance prospective in nature.
These forward looking statements or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed may be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, or implied in any forward looking statements in this or the negative thereof such as plans, expects or does document will actually occur.
You are cautioned not to place not expect, is expected, continues, assumes, is subject undue reliance on these forward looking statements which to, budget, scheduled, estimates, aims, forecasts, only speak as of the date of this document.
Other than risks, intends, positioned, predicts, anticipates or in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations does not anticipate, or believes, or variations of such including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure words or comparable terminology and phrases or statements and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority that certain actions, events or results may, could, and the Rules Governing the Listing ofSecurities on the should, shall, would, might or will be taken, Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and the Listing occur or be achieved.
Such statements are qualified in their Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited, entirety by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and future expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not its affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation based on historical facts, but rather on current predictions, or undertaking to update or revise any forward looking expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, statements, whether as a result of new information, future intentions and projections about future events, results of events or otherwise.
This document shall not, under any operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions circumstances, create any implication that there has been no of strategy.
change in the business or affairs of Glencore since the date of this document or that the information contained herein By their nature, forward looking statements involve known iscorrect as at any time subsequent to its date.
and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Glencores control.
Forward looking statements are No statement in this document is intended as a profit not guarantees of future performance and may and often do forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this differ materially from actual results.
Important factors that document should be interpreted to mean that earnings could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited perGlencore share for the current or future financial years to, those discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties would necessarily match or exceed the historical published section on pages 26 to33.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any securities.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine fide-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC Certified and manufactured ata mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Printed by Principal Colour Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC Chain ofCustody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel: 41 41 709 2000 Fax: 41 41 709 3000 E-mail: info@glencore.
com FRONT COVER IMAGE: Ernest Henry copper mine, Australia.
