Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Critical accounting judgements and Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 28 June 2014 key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make plan have not been impacted by IAS 19 revised.
Subsequent to the Measurement of franchise commitments 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these judgements and introduction of IAS19 revised in the interim statements to 28 December The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation statement of compliance with IFRSs estimates are based on managements best knowledge, actual results 2014, the Group has reviewed annual reports of peer groups and other provisions on vehicles, depots and stations and also income claims from The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc the ultimately may differ from these estimates.
FTSE 350 companies and has restated defined benefit pension scheme other rail franchise operators as set out in note 25.
Significant elements of Group for the year ended 28 June 2014 were authorised for issue by the net interest expense from operating costs into finance costs.
The impact the provisions required are subject to interpretation of franchise agreements The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of Board of directors on 3 September 2014 and the balance sheet was signed of the implementation of IAS 19 revised is detailed in note 3, and and rolling stock agreements.
The Group has significant internal expertise causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Keith Down.
The Go-Ahead incorporates the restatement of the net interest expense from finance to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable within the next financial year are in relation to: Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and costs to operating costs.
management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, Impairment testing has its registered office in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported Basis of consolidation IFRS requires management to perform impairment testing if events or shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it is not by valuations from professional external advisors to ensure corroboration The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be under the control of any single shareholder.
of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 28 June 2014. recoverable.
The measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Contract and franchise accounting intangible assets requires estimation of the net present value of future Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Judgements are made on an ongoing basis with regard to recoverability cashflows that an investment might make which requires estimations of: to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the consolidated of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets and liabilities is transferred out of the Group.
The financial statements of subsidiaries for Growth in profitability and EBITDA: financial statements of the Group for the year ended 28 June 2014, and arising from contracts and franchises.
Regular forecasts are compiled on use in the consolidation are prepared for the same reporting year as the applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Future growth rates: the outcome of these contracts and franchise arrangements, which require parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intraThe Group is required to comply with international accounting requirements Timing of future cash outflows such as capital items required: and assessments and judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from under IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare costs and, in cases where options exist, the life of the contract or franchise.
intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The selection of a suitable discount rate.
circumstances where management concludes that compliance would be Taxation Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held by so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly Our assessment of impairment and the associated sensitivities are as detailed Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented its financial statements.
On that basis, the Group has departed from the in note 14. treatment of some transactions cannot be fully determined until a formal within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised and has accounted for Retirement benefit obligations resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Tax benefits are not shareholders equity.
its constructive but not legal obligations for the Railways Pension Scheme The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained.
Tax RPS under the terms of its UK rail franchise agreements.
Details of the Interest in joint ventures estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current and provisions are made if it is possible that a liability will arise.
The Group background and rationale for this departure are provided in note 28.
The Group has a contractual arrangement with another party which deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, as set out reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate represents a joint venture.
This takes the form of an agreement to share 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies in note 28.
The Group engages with Towers Watson, a global professional accounting treatment.
control over another entity, through an interest in a company a jointly services company whose specialisms include actuarial advice, to support the Basis of preparation controlled entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the entitys assets process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the and liabilities using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity they are appropriate to our particular circumstances.
New accounting standards and method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the balance sheet at interpretations, which require adoption in future years have also been listed Uninsured claims cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less and our current view of the impact they will have on financial reporting.
The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment of the distributions received and less any impairment in value of the investment.
expected settlement of known claims and an estimate of the cost of claims The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and The Group income statement reflects the share of the jointly controlled not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 25.
In order to assess the all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except entitys results after tax.
Where there has been a change recognised in other appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with its brokers and claims when otherwise indicated.
comprehensive income of the jointly controlled entity, the Group recognises handlers to ensure external expertise of our claims development history is its share of any such changes in the consolidated statement of As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart from the adequately built in to the provision.
requirements of IAS 19 revised so as to present fairly its financial performance, position and cashflows in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the income New standards will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
Revenue is The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, time for the financial year ending 28 June 2014: excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
IFRS 7 Amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Rendering of services The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger transport IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and rail passenger transport.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Classification of requirements sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local for comparative information transport authorities.
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment Classification of servicing Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route equipment usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which administers the income IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Tax effects of distributions allocation system within the UK rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts to holders of equity instruments and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on tickets sold.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local With the exception of IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised IAS 19 Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, whereas revised, adoption of the new standards did not have a material impact franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in operating costs.
on the financial performance or position of the Group.
The key impact of Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the IAS 19 revised has been to remove the separate assumptions for expected return on plan assets and discounting of scheme liabilities and replace them customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of services provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income is with one single discount rate for the net deficit.
As discount rates are typically lower than returns on assets this has reduced the credit in the deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
income statement for returns on scheme assets and therefore increased the net pension charge.
The actual benefits and the cash contributions for the 96 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Property, plant and equipment 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition continued to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Rental income Freehold land is not depreciated.
Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a expected useful lives and the lease terms.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, Finance revenue less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal as follows: outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease Government grants Freehold buildings and Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the income account and is released to the income statement over the expected carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the assets useful life of the relevant asset.
are written down to their recoverable amount.
Uninsured liabilities Non-current assets held for sale The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
These of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through aggregate stop loss, for total claims within the excess limits.
A provision is a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.
available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect Business combinations and goodwill of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition Franchise bid costs is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
All franchise bid costs incurred the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as an expense in the at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets, income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
Directly is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions Profit and revenue sharing support agreements as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded The rail companies have certain revenue and, historically, profit sharing derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
An accrual is made within amounts payable to central Government for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments are charged to recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the operating costs.
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity.
Exceptional items Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net financial performance.
identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are 98 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 100 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a Property, plant and equipment Franchise assets 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require the Group continued measured reliably.
to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability that exists at that point Rental income Freehold land is not depreciated.
in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of the If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing related net pension deficit that the Group expects to fund during the transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a franchise term.
When a pension deficit exists at the start of the franchise, and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition expected useful lives and the lease terms.
a corresponding intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on cost or fair value, the right to operate the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at the start of acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent Finance revenue less estimated residual value of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life the franchise, then a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised, Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business as follows: representing a government grant.
The intangible asset or deferred income acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease balance is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated Government grants over the period of the franchise.
Freehold buildings and impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at the end in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years of the first financial year following the award of the franchise and in other the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other it is recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years may not be recoverable.
assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred Software for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management income account and is released to the income statement over the expected Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised as an carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the assets purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
useful life of the relevant asset.
intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and any impairment are written down to their recoverable amount.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over Uninsured liabilities Non-current assets held for sale operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the its expected useful life of three to five years.
The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
These Inventories of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual Stocks of fuel and engineering spares, that are not expected to be used classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of aggregate stop loss, for total claims within the excess limits.
A provision is during more than one period, are valued at the lower of cost and net a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the overall stop loss.
Impairment of assets bringing the items to their present location and condition.
Net realisable available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication value represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale.
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
advice and is based on an assessment of the expected settlement on known Cash and cash equivalents impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank Business combinations and goodwill of the assets recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets or cashof incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of three Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use been reported to the Group by the insurer.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow statement, Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined Franchise bid costs is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their present franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either Financial assets and derivatives value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments prior to achieving preferred bidder status are treated as an expense in the at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets, Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial assets of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
income statement irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
Acquisition costs incurred are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible directly attributable transaction costs.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and recoverable amount.
asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions Profit and revenue sharing support agreements price fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks associated with statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded The rail companies have certain revenue and, historically, profit sharing interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
An accrual is made within amounts payable to by reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no central Government for the estimated cost to the Group of the relevant re-measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Subsequent changes to the Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated and amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed operating costs.
fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other comprehensive only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit and Revenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
loss or in other comprehensive income.
When the cashflow hedge results in the recognition of a nonThe reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally within equity.
financial asset or a liability, then at the time that asset or liability is recognised, Exceptional items have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income recognised for the asset in prior years.
After such a reversal the depreciation of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial statement those material items of revenue or expense which, because of charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying measurement of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of useful life.
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the hedged acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net financial performance.
identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed item affects net profit or loss.
in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses assumed in transactions separate from the business combinations, such as arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration as they arise.
arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are 98 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change continued is reasonable.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, When required the Group presents the valuation results to the audit terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no committee and the Groups independent auditors.
This includes a discussion longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative of the major assumptions used in the valuations.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as of the related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction explained above.
is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value Fair value measurement of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial The Group measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives, and nonrecognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the financial assets such as investment properties, at fair value at each balance effective interest method.
Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses sheet date.
Also, fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fide-recognition of debt, are cost are disclosed in note 24. recognised directly in the income statement.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over the In the principal market for the asset or liability, or shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase for the asset or liability contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income the Group.
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming repayments outstanding.
that market participants act in their economic best interest.
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the Provisions circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an use of unobservable inputs.
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, expected All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the identical assets or liabilities income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used, Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable as a finance cost.
Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is Treasury shares significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred in shareholders funds as a separate reserve for own shares.
Any gain or loss between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups shares is lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
at the end of each reporting period.
At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents.
100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 102 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset and Retirement benefits Share based payment transactions 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined benefit The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the continued is reasonable.
The costs of these are recognised in the income fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an external Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is sold, statement.
As discussed below, the Group has invoked the provisions valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting equity-settled When required the Group presents the valuation results to the audit terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or otherwise no of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and has departed from the options, conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price committee and the Groups independent auditors.
At that point in time, any cumulative requirements of IAS 19 revised in respect of the Rail Pension Schemes RPS.
of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions of the major assumptions used in the valuations.
gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive not related to performance or service non-vesting conditions : and For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes Bus schemes income is kept in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, at which point performance conditions.
of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined it is taken to the income statement or included in the initial carrying amount The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which of the related non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction from grant to vesting date, being the date on which the relevant employees explained above.
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value Fair value measurement extent to which the period to vesting has expired and the directors best Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial The Group measures financial instruments, such as, derivatives, and nonestimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case benefit liability or asset.
recognition the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using the financial assets such as investment properties, at fair value at each balance of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the effective interest method.
Also, fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on plan assets excluding arising on the repurchase, settlement or other fide-recognition of debt, are cost are disclosed in note 24. conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not met.
net interest are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income recognised directly in the income statement.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for in the period in which they occur.
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all of transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition.
The current service cost, is recognised in the income statement within the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is recognised in the and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance income statement within finance costs.
corresponding liability being recognised, and are depreciated over the conditions are satisfied.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is In the principal market for the asset or liability, or shorter of their useful lives and the lease terms.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
for the asset or liability using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Taxation value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted the Group.
statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on an undiscounted basis securities is the published bid price.
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the earlier market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming repayments outstanding.
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the that market participants act in their economic best interest.
Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
When a settlement eliminating A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences all obligations for benefits already accrued or a curtailment reducing future under operating leases, and the amortisation of lease incentives and initial market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets and liabilities for obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that direct costs in securing leases, are charged to the income statement on a taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
reduction in future entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets straight-line basis over the lease term.
It is provided for on all temporary differences, except: are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the Provisions loss is recognised in the income statement during the period in which the on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or settlement or curtailment occurs.
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are charged use of unobservable inputs.
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable or loss: and to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, expected All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in Rail schemes future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences Our train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined benefit where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned measurement as a whole: Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reverse in the foreseeable future.
into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when recovery is Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the identical assets or liabilities operated by most businesses, the RPS is a shared cost scheme, which means that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where discounting is used, Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is that costs are formally shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
A liability and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable or asset is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets as a finance cost.
Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is Treasury shares liability or asset represents the deficit or surplus that the Group expects significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are deducted to fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
This represents a or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs are also recognised departure from IAS 19 revised so as to present fairly the Groups financial Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is recognised a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred in shareholders funds as a separate reserve for own shares.
Any gain or loss performance, position and cashflow in respect of its obligations for the RPS.
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in correlation with the between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups shares is underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in the income statement.
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole transferred from the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date periods beginning on or after International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendment 1 January 2014 IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets amendment 1 January 2014 IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting amendment 1 January 2014 IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014 IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendment 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer plants 1 January 2016 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Restatement of prior period comparatives The following tables show restated prior period comparative figures for the reportable divisions and for the Group for the financial year ended 29 June 2013.
The restatement reflects the retrospective adjustment from the adoption of the changes in IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised which applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The key impact on the Group from the revised standard removes the assumptions for expected return on plan assets and discounting of scheme liabilities and replaces them with one single discount rate for the net deficit, as discount rates are typically lower than returns on assets this reduces the credit in the income statement for returns on scheme assets and therefore increases the net pension charge.
The actual benefit and the cash contributions for these plans are not impacted by the revised standard.
The adoption of IAS 19 revised has also resulted in the derecognition of the rail pension intangible asset, which was created to offset the pension deficit recognised at the outset of the franchise.
The effect of the increased IAS 19 revised pension costs is to increase the estimate of the deficit at the end of the franchise and thereby reduce the post franchise adjustment liability to nil.
Subsequent to the introduction of IAS 19 revised in the interim statements to 28 December 2014, the Group has reviewed annual reports of peer groups and other FTSE 350 companies and restated defined benefit pension scheme net interest expense from operating costs into finance costs.
102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 104 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated income statement 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Year to 29 June 2013 New standards and interpretations not applied Impact of The International Accounting Standards Board IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Reported IAS19 revised Restated financial statements: m m m Effective date Deregulated bus 37.9 1.5 36.4 periods beginning on or after International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Regulated bus 40.3 1.5 38.8 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 Total bus 78.2 3.0 75.2 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 Rail 24.3 12.8 11.5 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities 1 January 2014 Group operating profit before amortisation 102.5 15.8 86.7 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 Intangible asset amortisation 10.3 3.8 6.5 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements amendment 1 January 2014 Deregulated bus after amortisation 36.5 1.5 35.0 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities amendment 1 January 2014 Regulated bus after amortisation 38.2 1.5 36.7 IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets amendment 1 January 2014 Total bus after amortisation 74.7 3.0 71.7 IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting amendment 1 January 2014 Rail after amortisation 17.5 9.0 8.5 IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014 Group operating profit after amortisation 92.2 12.0 80.2 IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions amendment 1 July 2014 Net finance costs 16.3 0.8 17.1 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle 1 July 2014 Profit before taxation 75.9 12.8 63.1 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle 1 July 2014 Tax expense 16.0 2.9 13.1 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 Profit for the year 59.9 9.9 50.0 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Bearer plants 1 January 2016 Attributable to: IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets Clarification of acceptable Equity holders of the parent 53.7 7.5 46.2 methods of depreciation and amortisation 1 January 2016 Non-controlling interests 6.2 2.4 3.8 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations 1 January 2016 59.9 9.9 50.0 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017 Earnings per share IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 basic 125.3p 17.5 p 107.8p The directors do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income The restatement reflects the retrospective adjustment from the adoption of the changes in IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised which applies to financial Impact of years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The key impact on the Group from the revised standard removes the assumptions for expected return on plan Reported IAS19 revised Restated m m m assets and discounting of scheme liabilities and replaces them with one single discount rate for the net deficit, as discount rates are typically lower than returns on assets this reduces the credit in the income statement for returns on scheme assets and therefore increases the net pension charge.
The actual benefit and Profit for the year 59.9 9.9 50.0 the cash contributions for these plans are not impacted by the revised standard.
Other comprehensive losses income The adoption of IAS 19 revised has also resulted in the derecognition of the rail pension intangible asset, which was created to offset the pension deficit Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss recognised at the outset of the franchise.
The effect of the increased IAS 19 revised pension costs is to increase the estimate of the deficit at the end of the Remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 28.6 8.9 19.7 franchise and thereby reduce the post franchise adjustment liability to nil.
Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 6.1 2.0 4.1 Subsequent to the introduction of IAS 19 revised in the interim statements to 28 December 2014, the Group has reviewed annual reports of peer groups 22.5 6.9 15.6 and other FTSE 350 companies and restated defined benefit pension scheme net interest expense from operating costs into finance costs.
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Unrealised gains on cashflow hedges 4.0 4.0 Gains on cashflow hedges taken to income statement operating costs 3.4 3.4 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 Other comprehensive losses for the year, net of tax 22.1 6.9 15.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 37.8 3.0 34.8 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 30.1 2.0 28.1 Non-controlling interests 7.7 1.0 6.7 37.8 3.0 34.8 102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Restatement of prior period comparatives continued Consolidated balance sheet 2013 2012 m m Intangible asset note 14 As previously reported 97.5 108.6 Prior year adjustment 5.7 9.5 Restated 91.8 99.1 Retirement benefit obligations note 28 As previously reported 47.7 30.5 Prior year adjustment 7.7 Restated 47.7 22.8 Net deferred tax liabilities note 10 As previously reported 41.5 44.3 Prior year adjustment 1.3 0.4 Restated 40.2 43.9 To remove the rail pension liability of 7.7m previously recognised at the year ended 30 June 2012.
Segmental analysis The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.
For accounting policies see Interest in joint ventures in note 2.
For management purposes, the Group is organised into four reportable segments: Deregulated bus, Regulated bus, Rail and Go-Ahead North America.
Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and services, as follows: The Deregulated bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
The Regulated bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL.
The Rail operation, Govia, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises three rail franchises: Southern, Southeastern and London Midland.
The registered office of Keolis UK Limited is in England and Wales.
The Go-Ahead North America division comprises a 50% investment in a US school bus operation.
The Groups share of the profit of this division is currently nil 2013: nil, and it is therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within Deregulated bus.
The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets and liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss excluding amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets and exceptional items.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 28 June 2014 and the year ended 29 June 2013.
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 106 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Year ended 28 June 2014 3.
Restatement of prior period comparatives continued Deregulated Regulated Total Total Consolidated balance sheet bus bus bus Rail operations 2013 2012 m m m m m m m Segment revenue 372.3 459.7 832.0 1,907.2 2,739.2 Intangible asset note 14 Inter-segment revenue 21.5 10.0 31.5 5.3 36.8 As previously reported 97.5 108.6 Group revenue 350.8 449.7 800.5 1,901.9 2,702.4 Prior year adjustment 5.7 9.5 Operating costs excluding amortisation and exceptional items 308.9 408.1 717.0 1,882.2 2,599.2 Restated 91.8 99.1 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 41.9 41.6 83.5 19.7 103.2 Retirement benefit obligations note 28 Intangible amortisation 1.4 2.0 3.4 2.4 5.8 As previously reported 47.7 30.5 Exceptional items 6.6 8.5 15.1 3.0 12.1 Prior year adjustment 7.7 Group operating profit after amortisation and exceptional items 47.1 48.1 95.2 14.3 109.5 Restated 47.7 22.8 Net finance costs 18.3 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 91.2 Net deferred tax liabilities note 10 Tax expense 13.6 As previously reported 41.5 44.3 Profit for the year 77.6 Prior year adjustment 1.3 0.4 Restated 40.2 43.9 Deregulated Regulated Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations To remove the rail pension liability of 7.7m previously recognised at the year ended 30 June 2012. m m m m m 4.
Segmental analysis Other segment information The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
For accounting policies see Interest in joint Capital expenditure: ventures in note 2.
Additions 52.4 8.9 61.3 8.2 69.5 For management purposes, the Group is organised into four reportable segments: Deregulated bus, Regulated bus, Rail and Go-Ahead North America.
Intangible fixed assets 1.1 0.1 1.2 0.5 1.7 Operating segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products and Depreciation 28.9 16.3 45.2 15.5 60.7 services, as follows: At 28 June 2014, there were non-current assets of nil 2013: 2.3m and current assets of 1.8m 2013: 0.4m relating to US operations, being made up The Deregulated bus division comprises bus operations outside London.
of equity accounted investments of nil 2013: nil and loans of 1.8m 2013: 2.7m in Go-Ahead North America, a 50:50 joint venture with Cook-Illinois The Regulated bus division comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL.
which commenced trading in August 2010.
For the year ended 28 June 2014, segment revenue for this venture was 1.7m 2013: 2.2m and segment profit The Rail operation, Govia, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises three rail franchises: Southern, Southeastern and London Midland.
During the year ended 28 June 2014, segment revenue from external customers outside the United Kingdom was 1.7m 2013: 2.2m, which related The Go-Ahead North America division comprises a 50% investment in a US school bus operation.
The Groups share of the profit of this division is currently entirely to the Go-Ahead North America joint venture.
nil 2013: nil, and it is therefore not shown separately within the tables below but aggregated within Deregulated bus.
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 29 June 2013 restated Deregulated Regulated Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Segment revenue 356.3 430.9 787.2 1,815.2 2,602.4 Inter-segment revenue 18.7 7.0 25.7 4.9 30.6 Group revenue 337.6 423.9 761.5 1,810.3 2,571.8 Operating costs excluding amortisation 301.2 385.1 686.3 1,798.8 2,485.1 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation 36.4 38.8 75.2 11.5 86.7 Intangible amortisation 1.4 2.1 3.5 3.0 6.5 Group operating profit after amortisation 35.0 36.7 71.7 8.5 80.2 Net finance costs 17.1 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 63.1 Tax expense 13.1 Profit for the year 50.0 Deregulated Regulated Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 42.1 9.2 51.3 7.2 58.5 Acquisitions 0.3 0.3 0.3 Intangible fixed assets 0.5 0.7 1.2 0.5 1.7 Depreciation 29.5 16.2 45.7 12.4 58.1 5.
Group revenue This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
2014 2013 m m Rendering of services 2,574.6 2,422.7 Rental income 9.3 8.9 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 118.5 140.2 Group revenue 2,702.4 2,571.8 106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 108 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating costs excluding amortisation and exceptional items Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue sharing support agreements, Year ended 29 June 2013 restated Franchise bid costs and Government grants in note 2.
Deregulated Regulated Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations Restated m m m m m 2014 2013 m m Segment revenue 356.3 430.9 787.2 1,815.2 2,602.4 Inter-segment revenue 18.7 7.0 25.7 4.9 30.6 Staff costs note 7 929.2 895.9 Group revenue 337.6 423.9 761.5 1,810.3 2,571.8 Operating lease payments Operating costs excluding amortisation 301.2 385.1 686.3 1,798.8 2,485.1 bus vehicles 18.4 18.9 non-rail properties 2.8 2.5 Segment profit Group operating profit before amortisation 36.4 38.8 75.2 11.5 86.7 other non-rail 0.1 0.1 Intangible amortisation 1.4 2.1 3.5 3.0 6.5 rail rolling stock 320.2 307.7 Group operating profit after amortisation 35.0 36.7 71.7 8.5 80.2 other rail 65.8 65.7 Net finance costs 17.1 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 407.3 394.9 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 63.1 rail access charges 461.1 439.4 Tax expense 13.1 2 Profit for the year 50.0 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 868.4 834.3 DfT Franchise agreement payments 182.5 152.7 Deregulated Regulated Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations Other operating income 25.5 23.7 m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Other segment information owned assets 51.9 46.4 Capital expenditure: leased assets 8.8 11.7 Additions 42.1 9.2 51.3 7.2 58.5 Total depreciation expense 60.7 58.1 Acquisitions 0.3 0.3 0.3 Intangible fixed assets 0.5 0.7 1.2 0.5 1.7 Auditors remuneration Depreciation 29.5 16.2 45.7 12.4 58.1 audit of the financial statements EY 0.5 0.5 audit of the financial statements Grant Thornton 0.1 0.1 5.
Group revenue taxation services 0.1 0.1 This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit other services 0.1 and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
Total auditors remuneration 0.7 0.8 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables not recovered 0.1 0.6 Rendering of services 2,574.6 2,422.7 Energy costs Rental income 9.3 8.9 bus fuel 112.9 93.6 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 118.5 140.2 rail diesel fuel 10.6 7.9 Group revenue 2,702.4 2,571.8 rail electricity EC4T 84.6 82.8 cost of site energy 11.7 12.2 Total energy costs 219.8 196.5 Government grants 2.8 2.9 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.2 0.5 Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 8.1 3.2 Other operating costs 356.8 370.1 Total operating costs 2,599.2 2,485.1 1 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 423.9m 2013: 408.2m, net of sublease payments of 16.6m 2013: 13.3m relating to other rail leases.
2 The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of 885.0m 2013: 847.6m, net of sublease payments of 16.6m 2013: 13.3m relating to other rail leases.
The fee relating to the audit of the financial statements can be analysed between audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements of 0.2m 2013: 0.2m and audit of subsidiaries financial statements of 0.4m 2013: 0.4m.
During the year, 1.8m 2013: 0.7m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
106 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Staff costs This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors and employees.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant.
The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year.
For accounting policies see Share based payment transactions in note 2.
Restated 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 793.5 769.7 Social security costs 69.8 68.0 Other pension costs 63.7 58.2 Share based payments charge 2.2 929.2 895.9 The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: 2014 2013 Administration and supervision 2,452 2,375 Maintenance and engineering 2,302 2,350 Operations 19,038 18,838 23,792 23,563 The information required by Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is provided in the directors remuneration report.
In addition, total directors emoluments are shown in the table below: 2014 2013 m m Group Chief Executive 1,960 942 Group Finance Director 1,299 646 Non-executive Directors 326 355 3,585 1,943 Sharesave scheme Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Group and its operating companies.
The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months of continuous service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of 5 to a maximum not exceeding 500 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
For the February 2014 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set by the Group was 50.
At the end of the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or take their full savings back.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
There are savings-related options at 28 June 2014 as follows: Scheme maturity 1 May 2017 Option price 17.34 No.
of options unexercised at 28 June 2014 461,575 No.
of options exercised during the year No.
of options exercisable at 28 June 2014 The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 28 June 2014 was 0.1m 2013: n a.
108 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 110 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 7.
Staff costs 2014 2013 This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors and 2014 WAEP 2013 WAEP employees.
For accounting policies see Share based payment transactions Outstanding at the beginning of the year in note 2.
Granted during the year 464,407 17.34 Restated Forfeited during the year 2,832 17.34 2014 2013 m m Exercised during the year Wages and salaries 793.5 769.7 Outstanding at the end of the year 461,575 17.34 Social security costs 69.8 68.0 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was n a 2013: n a.
Other pension costs 63.7 58.2 The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 2.83 years 2013: n a.
These options are exercisable Share based payments charge 2.2 at 17.34 2013: n a.
929.2 895.9 Long Term Incentive Plans The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
2014 2013 Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the LTIP.
Administration and supervision 2,452 2,375 The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 28 June 2014 was 1.8m 2013: 0.1m.
Maintenance and engineering 2,302 2,350 The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon Operations 19,038 18,838 which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 were: 23,792 23,563 2014 2013 % per annum % per annum The information required by Schedule 5 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is provided in the The Go-Ahead Group plc directors remuneration report.
In addition, total directors emoluments are shown in the table below: Future share price volatility 24.0 27.0 2014 2013 FTSE Mid-250 index comparator m m Future share price volatility 25.0 30.0 Group Chief Executive 1,960 942 Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 Group Finance Director 1,299 646 Non-executive Directors 326 355 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 15.63 2013: 10.96.
3,585 1,943 The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: 2014 2013 Sharesave scheme Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option Outstanding at the beginning of the year 293,863 258,206 scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Group and its Granted during the year 49,958 113,380 operating companies.
Forfeited during the year 58,798 77,723 The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months of continuous Exercised during the year 25,878 service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into Outstanding at the end of the year 259,145 293,863 a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of 5 to a maximum not exceeding 500 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
At the end of At the year end, 76,489 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options is 23.67 2013: nil.
the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or take their full savings back.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 0.79 years 2013: 1.53 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised was The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and 21.32 2013: n a. conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future risk Deferred Share Bonus Plan free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional There are savings-related options at 28 June 2014 as follows: on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
The shares are deferred over a three year period.
Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the DSBP.
Scheme maturity 1 May 2017 The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 28 June 2014 was 0.3m 2013: less than 0.1m.
of options unexercised at 28 June 2014 461,575 The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share price at the date of grant.
of options exercisable at 28 June 2014 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 16.39 2013: 12.32.
The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 28 June 2014 was 0.1m 2013: n a.
2014 2013 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 14,204 Granted during the year 46,624 14,204 Forfeited during the year 2,789 Exercised during the year 1,953 Outstanding at the end of the year 56,086 14,204 108 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Staff costs continued Deferred Share Bonus Plan continued At the year end, 866 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options is 23.67 2013: nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options is 1.75 years.
The weighted average share price of options exercised was 20.19 2013: nil.
Share incentive plans The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date they are invited to participate in the plan.
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available to the Group and employees.
Exceptional items This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period.
For accounting policies see Exceptional items in note 2.
2014 2013 m m Pension plan curtailment gain 15.1 Rail restructuring costs 3.0 Total exceptional items 12.1 Year ended 28 June 2014 Total exceptional items in the year were 12.1m.
The pension plan curtailment gain of 15.1m arose on closure of the defined benefit scheme.
This reduces the Groups exposure to further increasing benefits: current members existing benefits are preserved but no further benefits will accrue, resulting in an adjustment to the Groups future liabilities.
This is non-recurring and non-cash.
In order to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line, London Midland are restructuring front line and head office personnel.
Year ended 29 June 2013 There were no exceptional items in the year ended 29 June 2013.
Finance revenue and costs Finance revenue comprise interest received from bank deposits.
Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans.
For accounting policies see Finance revenue in note 2.
Restated 2014 2013 m m Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 1.4 1.5 Other interest receivable 0.1 0.1 Finance revenue 1.5 1.6 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.2 3.9 Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.1 11.1 Other interest payable 2.0 1.9 Hedging ineffectiveness 0.1 Unwinding of discounting on provisions 1.1 0.7 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.4 0.4 Interest on net pension liability 2.0 0.8 Finance costs 19.8 18.7 110 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 112 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note also sets out the tax liabilities held across the Group.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan continued For accounting policies see Taxation in note 2.
At the year end, 866 options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options is 23.67 2013: nil.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity Restated Share incentive plans 2014 2013 The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP.
m m The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date Current tax charge 13.5 14.7 they are invited to participate in the plan.
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.9 1.3 The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, 12.6 13.4 although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 20% 2013: 23% 7.6 1.5 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 0.3 to the Group and employees.
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 2.1 8.
Exceptional items Tax reported in consolidated income statement 13.6 13.1 This note identifies items of an exceptional nature that have a significant impact on the results of the Group in the period.
Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss Restated 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Pension plan curtailment gain 15.1 Tax on remeasurement losses on defined benefit pension plans 2.9 4.5 Rail restructuring costs 3.0 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 0.6 Total exceptional items 12.1 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 0.4 0.8 Deferred tax on LTIP 0.5 Year ended 28 June 2014 Total exceptional items in the year were 12.1m.
Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.4 0.4 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 2.5 3.9 The pension plan curtailment gain of 15.1m arose on closure of the defined benefit scheme.
b. Reconciliation This is non-recurring and non-cash.
A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit before tax and exceptional items at the statutory tax rate to tax at the Groups effective tax Rail restructuring costs were 3.0m.
In order to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line, London Midland are rate for the years ended 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 is as follows: restructuring front line and head office personnel.
Restated Year ended 29 June 2013 2014 2013 m m There were no exceptional items in the year ended 29 June 2013.
Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 91.2 63.1 9.
For accounting At United Kingdom tax rate of 22.5% 2013: 23.75% 20.5 15.0 policies see Finance revenue in note 2.
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.9 1.3 Restated 2014 2013 Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 1.6 1.3 m m Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.2 0.3 Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 1.4 1.5 Effect of changes in tax rates 1.0 0.1 Other interest receivable 0.1 0.1 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 2.1 Finance revenue 1.5 1.6 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 13.6 13.1 Effective tax rate 14.9% 20.8% Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 3.2 3.9 c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.1 11.1 A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: Other interest payable 2.0 1.9 2014 2013 Hedging ineffectiveness 0.1 m m Unwinding of discounting on provisions 1.1 0.7 Current tax liability at start of year 10.5 8.8 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.4 0.4 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 12.6 13.4 Interest on net pension liability 2.0 0.8 Corporation tax on cashflow hedges 0.1 0.6 Finance costs 19.8 18.7 Paid in the year 12.4 11.1 Current tax liability at end of year 10.6 10.5 110 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Taxation continued d. Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Restated Restated 2014 2013 2012 m m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 30.6 31.8 31.2 Other temporary differences 2.8 0.5 2.7 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 17.4 19.9 20.9 Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 50.8 51.2 49.4 Deferred tax asset Retirement benefit obligations 12.0 11.0 5.5 Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 12.0 11.0 5.5 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Accelerated capital allowances 2.6 2.5 Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.3 Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 3.6 Temporary differences arising on unwinding of leasing arrangements 1.6 Other temporary differences 0.7 0.3 7.6 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.3 Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 2.1 Deferred tax expense 1.0 0.3 The UK Government has announced its intention to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 20% by 1 April 2015.
A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% came into effect on 1 April 2014.
Finance Bill 2013 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and given Royal Assent on 17 July 2013, giving effect to a 20% rate effective from 1 April 2015.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
This note also includes adjusted earnings per share, which shows a normalised earnings per share following elimination of the impact of amortisation and exceptional items.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Restated 2014 2013 m m Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 46.2 Consisting of: Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 63.7 50.4 Amortisation after taxation and non-controlling interests 3.9 4.2 Exceptional items after taxation and non-controlling interests 10.5 Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 46.2 112 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 114 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Restated 10.
Taxation continued 2014 2013 d. Deferred tax Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,854 42,845 The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Dilutive potential share options 000 448 510 Restated Restated Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,302 43,355 2014 2013 2012 m m m Earnings per share: Deferred tax liability Adjusted earnings per share pence per share 148.6 117.6 Accelerated capital allowances 30.6 31.8 31.2 Basic earnings per share 164.0 107.8 Other temporary differences 2.8 0.5 2.7 Diluted earnings per share 162.4 106.6 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 17.4 19.9 20.9 Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 50.8 51.2 49.4 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 28 June 2014 to 3 September 2014.
Deferred tax asset The effect of taxation and non-controlling interests on exceptional items and amortisation is shown below for each of the periods.
Retirement benefit obligations 12.0 11.0 5.5 Adjusted earnings per share Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 12.0 11.0 5.5 Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of goodwill and intangible amortisation and exceptional items in order to show The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: a normalised earnings per share.
This is analysed as follows: Restated Year ended 28 June 2014 2014 2013 Profit for 2014 m m the year Amortisation Exceptional items Total Accelerated capital allowances 2.6 2.5 m m m m Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.3 Profit before taxation 91.2 5.8 12.1 84.9 Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 3.6 Less: Taxation 13.6 1.3 2.4 12.5 Temporary differences arising on unwinding of leasing arrangements 1.6 Less: Non-controlling interests 7.3 0.6 0.8 8.7 Other temporary differences 0.7 0.3 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 3.9 10.5 63.7 7.6 1.5 Adjusted earnings per share pence per share 148.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.3 Year ended 29 June 2013 Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 6.8 2.1 Restated Deferred tax expense 1.0 0.3 Profit for 2013 the year Amortisation Exceptional items Total The UK Government has announced its intention to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 20% by 1 April 2015. m m m m A reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% came into effect on 1 April 2014.
Finance Bill 2013 was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 Profit before taxation 63.1 6.5 69.6 and given Royal Assent on 17 July 2013, giving effect to a 20% rate effective from 1 April 2015.
Less: Taxation 13.1 1.5 14.6 Less: Non-controlling interests 3.8 0.8 4.6 11.
Earnings per share Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 46.2 4.2 50.4 Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number Adjusted earnings per share pence per share 117.6 of shares in issue during the year.
Dividends paid and proposed Basic and diluted earnings per share Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November.
Restated 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 46.2 Declared and paid during the year Consisting of: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Adjusted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 63.7 50.4 Final dividend for 2013: 55.5p per share 2012: 55.5p 23.8 23.8 Amortisation after taxation and non-controlling interests 3.9 4.2 Interim dividend for 2014: 25.5p per share 2013: 25.5p 10.9 10.9 Exceptional items after taxation and non-controlling interests 10.5 34.7 34.7 Basic and diluted earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 70.3 46.2 2014 2013 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 28 June 2014 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2014: 59.0p per share 2013: 55.5p 25.3 23.8 112 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Property, plant and equipment The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment in note 2.
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 116 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13.
Intangible assets The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All assets are depreciated Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, customer contracts and software costs.
Goodwill, which over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment in note 2. arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily due to the synergies we expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Customer contracts are amortised over the life of the contract.
Software is amortised over its Freehold land Leasehold land Plant and and buildings and properties Bus vehicles equipment Total expected useful life.
For further details see Impairment of assets, Franchise bid costs, Franchise assets, Software and Business combinations and goodwill m m m m m in note 2.
At 28 June 2014 164.1 8.6 252.8 33.1 458.6 Franchise bid costs At 29 June 2013 162.3 9.9 241.0 44.4 457.6 A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
Directly attributable, incremental costs At 30 June 2012 156.6 13.5 241.6 47.7 459.4 incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: Rail franchise asset 2014 2013 m m This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
The intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.
Bus vehicles 1.9 46.1 Plant and equipment 0.1 0.3 Customer contracts This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based 2.0 46.4 on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
Additions and acquisitions during the year included nil 2013: nil of rolling stock and nil 2013: nil of plant and equipment under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
114 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Metrobus 10.6 10.6 Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Brighton & Hove 2.1 2.1 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 Carousel 2.1 2.1 Anglian 3.3 3.3 Chambers 1.6 1.6 80.8 80.8 The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period.
The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.25%-3.0% which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
The pre-tax cashflows for all cash-generating units have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% 2013: 9.3%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, plus an appropriate risk premium for the business of 0.0-2.0% 2013: 0.0-2.0%.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, staff costs and general overheads.
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
We have conducted sensitivity analysis on our calculations and except for Anglian, no reasonable change in key assumptions would cause the unit carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Using a 8.3% pre-tax discount rate, Anglian has headroom of 1.2m.
An increase in discount rate of 0.7% or a reduction of cashflows of 14% would be required to reduce the headroom in this business to nil.
15. Business combinations This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and goodwill in note 2.
Year ended 28 June 2014 There were no acquisitions during the year ended 28 June 2014.
Year ended 29 June 2013 On 22 June 2013, London General Transport Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 11 residual TfL Route contracts, including 45 buses, from First Capital East Limiteds operation in Dagenham for a cash consideration of 0.7m.
Net assets at date of acquisition: Total acquisitions Fair value to Group 2013 m Tangible fixed assets 0.3 Intangibles Customer contracts 0.6 Payables falling due within one year 0.2 0.7 Cash 0.7 Total consideration 0.7 Acquisition costs of nil have been expensed through other operating costs.
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Assets classified as held for sale This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through Goodwill a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Non-current assets held for sale in note 2.
Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: At 28 June 2014, assets held for sale, had a carrying value of 72.4m, of which 68.6m 2013: nil represents a payment on account for new rolling stock in Southern Railway Limited and in respect of which it is expected that a sale and operating leaseback will be completed before 27 June 2015.
The remaining 2014 2013 m m 3.8m 2013: 2.8m relates to property, plant and equipment available for sale.
Inventories Go South Coast 28.6 28.6 Our inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of our allowance for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Brighton & Hove 2.1 2.1 Inventories in note 2.
Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 2014 2013 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 m m Go North East 2.7 2.7 Raw materials and consumables 15.6 14.2 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
Trade and other receivables Anglian 3.3 3.3 Our trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed to us by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in Chambers 1.6 1.6 advance, amounts receivable from central Government and taxes receivable.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
80.8 80.8 2014 2013 m m The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based Current on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period.
Trade receivables 124.7 103.4 The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 1.0 1.2 forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.25%-3.0% which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
Trade receivables net 123.7 102.2 The pre-tax cashflows for all cash-generating units have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8.3% 2013: 9.3%, based on the Groups weighted Other receivables 30.6 43.5 average cost of capital, plus an appropriate risk premium for the business of 0.0-2.0% 2013: 0.0-2.0%.
Prepayments and accrued income 56.8 50.5 The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate Receivable from central Government 41.9 41.2 used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
Amounts due from joint venture 1.8 0.4 These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
254.8 237.8 The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
We have conducted sensitivity analysis on our calculations and except for Anglian, no reasonable change 2014 2013 in key assumptions would cause the unit carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Using a 8.3% pre-tax discount rate, Anglian has headroom m m of 1.2m.
Non-current 15. Business combinations Other receivables 1.2 1.1 This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and goodwill Trade receivables at nominal value of 1.0m 2013: 1.2m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables in note 2. were as follows: Year ended 28 June 2014 Total There were no acquisitions during the year ended 28 June 2014. m Year ended 29 June 2013 At 29 June 2013 1.2 On 22 June 2013, London General Transport Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired 11 residual TfL Route contracts, including Charge for the year 0.4 45 buses, from First Capital East Limiteds operation in Dagenham for a cash consideration of 0.7m.
Utilised 0.3 Net assets at date of acquisition: Unused amounts reversed 0.3 Total acquisitions At 28 June 2014 1.0 Fair value to Group 2013 As at 28 June 2014, the ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: m Past due but not Tangible fixed assets 0.3 Neither past due impaired more Total nor impaired Less than 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days than 120 days Intangibles Customer contracts 0.6 m m m m m m m Payables falling due within one year 0.2 2014 123.7 114.3 4.6 1.9 1.8 1.1 0.7 2013 102.2 97.0 4.5 0.3 0.1 0.3 Cash 0.7 Total consideration 0.7 Acquisition costs of nil have been expensed through other operating costs.
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Cash and cash equivalents The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to enable us to meet our short term liquidity requirements.
For accounting polices see Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 47.5 51.0 Cash and cash equivalents 234.3 197.9 281.8 248.9 Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value.
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula.
As at 28 June 2014, balances amounting to 217.3m 2013: 208.7m were restricted.
Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for season tickets which was 123.4m at 28 June 2014 2013: 118.2m.
Trade and other payables Our trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts we owe to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket income.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to central Government.
2014 2013 m m Current Trade payables 115.4 131.6 Other taxes and social security costs 22.8 22.9 Other payables 45.6 41.5 Deferred season ticket income 123.4 118.2 Accruals and deferred income 124.6 109.6 Payable to central Government 116.0 38.8 Government grants 9.9 2.6 557.7 465.2 2014 2013 m m Non-current Government grants 2.4 3.5 Other liabilities 1.8 2.4 5.3 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms: and Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months.
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to enable us to meet our short term liquidity The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
The Group holds a dollar loan facility to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on joint venture transactions.
For accounting policies see Interest bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
2014 2013 m m Net debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings Cash at bank and in hand 47.5 51.0 Our net debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: Cash and cash equivalents 234.3 197.9 Year ended 28 June 2014 281.8 248.9 Current Non-current After one year Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods of between one Effective Within but not more than After day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
The fair value of cash interest rate one year five years five years Total and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value.
% Maturity m m m m Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to Syndicated loans see below 1.64 0-2 years 120.0 120.0 the value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula.
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.4 0.4 Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for season tickets which was 123.4m at 28 June 2014 2013: 118.2m.
Trade and other payables 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-4 years 200.0 200.0 Debt issue costs 0.4 0.8 1.2 Our trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts we owe to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket income.
Finance leases and HP commitments see below 7.87 0-3 years 1.2 0.8 2.0 2014 2013 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 320.0 322.9 m m Debt issue costs 0.8 0.8 1.6 Current Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings Trade payables 115.4 131.6 gross of debt issue costs 3.7 320.8 324.5 Other taxes and social security costs 22.8 22.9 Cash and short term deposits note 19 281.8 281.8 Other payables 45.6 41.5 Net debt 278.1 320.8 42.7 Deferred season ticket income 123.4 118.2 Accruals and deferred income 124.6 109.6 Restricted cash 217.3 Payable to central Government 116.0 38.8 Adjusted net debt 260.0 Government grants 9.9 2.6 Year ended 29 June 2013 557.7 465.2 Current Non-current After one year 2014 2013 Effective Within but not more than After m m interest rate one year five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Non-current Government grants 2.4 3.5 Syndicated loans see below 1.82 0-3 years 133.0 133.0 Other liabilities 1.8 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.6 0.3 0.9 2.4 5.3 Dollar loans see below 2.04 0-3 years 3.2 3.2 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-5 years 200.0 200.0 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Debt issue costs 0.4 1.2 1.6 Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms: and Finance leases and HP commitments see below 8.36 0-4 years 1.6 2.0 3.6 Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months.
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.6 336.7 337.3 Debt issue costs 1.0 1.5 2.5 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 1.6 338.2 339.8 Cash and short term deposits note 19 248.9 248.9 Net debt 247.3 338.2 90.9 Restricted cash 208.7 Adjusted net debt 299.6 118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued Analysis of Group net debt Cash and cash Syndicated loan Hire purchase 200m equivalents facility Dollar loan finance leases sterling bond Total m m m m m m 30 June 2012 253.7 135.0 3.5 6.2 200.0 91.0 Cashflow 4.8 2.0 0.3 2.6 0.1 29 June 2013 248.9 133.0 3.2 3.6 200.0 90.9 Cashflow 32.9 13.0 0.7 1.6 48.2 28 June 2014 281.8 120.0 2.5 2.0 200.0 42.7 Syndicated loan facility On 3 February 2011 the Group entered into a 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, replacing the 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The new loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
200m sterling 7.5 year bond On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.
Dollar loan On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture.
The dollar loan is unsecured and interest is charged at US$ LIBOR Margin.
Debt issue costs There are debt issue costs of 0.4m 2013: 0.9m on the syndicated loan facility.
The 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of 1.2m 2013: 1.6m.
The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities.
The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a minimum net interest cover.
At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments.
For accounting policies see Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2.
The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These contracts have no terms of renewal or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2014 2013 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m Within one year 1.3 1.2 1.8 1.6 After one year but not more than five years 0.9 0.8 2.2 2.0 Total minimum lease payments 2.2 2.0 4.0 3.6 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.2 0.4 Present value of minimum lease payments 2.0 2.0 3.6 3.6 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 122 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 23.
Financial risk management objectives and policies This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group Analysis of Group net debt to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Cash and cash Syndicated loan Hire purchase 200m equivalents facility Dollar loan finance leases sterling bond Total Financial risk factors and management m m m m m m The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
30 June 2012 253.7 135.0 3.5 6.2 200.0 91.0 The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed Cashflow 4.8 2.0 0.3 2.6 0.1 asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise 29 June 2013 248.9 133.0 3.2 3.6 200.0 90.9 directly from its operations.
Cashflow 32.9 13.0 0.7 1.6 48.2 The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps and fuel swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the interest rate and fuel 28 June 2014 281.8 120.0 2.5 2.0 200.0 42.7 price risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
It is, and has been throughout 2013 14 and 2012 13, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased Syndicated loan facility for internal benefit.
On 3 February 2011 the Group entered into a 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Risks arising from fuel derivatives are explained Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
Interest rate risk On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, replacing the 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
The Boards policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on The new loan facility is unsecured and interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.
200m sterling 7.5 year bond During the year ended 29 June 2013 the Group partially managed interest rate risk by hedging.
During the year ended 28 June 2014 the Group had no On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.
interest rate hedges in place.
Excluding fixed rate debt, the Group has net borrowings and hence the present adverse risk is an increase in interest rates.
Dollar loan The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised issue costs as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was entered into for the purposes of financing our Go-Ahead North America joint venture.
Average Within More than rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total The dollar loan is unsecured and interest is charged at US$ LIBOR Margin.
% m m m m m m m Debt issue costs Year ended 28 June 2014 There are debt issue costs of 0.4m 2013: 0.9m on the syndicated loan facility.
Floating rate assets liabilities The 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of 1.2m 2013: 1.6m.
Variable rate loans 1.70 2.5 120.0 122.5 The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities.
The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and a minimum Gross floating rate liabilities 2.5 120.0 122.5 net interest cover.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments Long term deposits n a This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments.
Net floating rate assets liabilities 279.3 120.0 159.3 The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These contracts have no terms of Fixed rate liabilities renewal or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 7.87 1.2 0.6 0.2 2.0 2014 2013 Net fixed rate liabilities 1.2 0.6 0.2 200.0 202.0 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Year ended 29 June 2013 m m m m Floating rate assets liabilities Within one year 1.3 1.2 1.8 1.6 Variable rate loans 1.82 136.2 136.2 After one year but not more than five years 0.9 0.8 2.2 2.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 136.2 136.2 Total minimum lease payments 2.2 2.0 4.0 3.6 Cash assets 0.59 248.9 248.9 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.2 0.4 Long term deposits 3.60 1.6 1.6 Present value of minimum lease payments 2.0 2.0 3.6 3.6 Net floating rate assets liabilities 248.9 1.6 136.2 114.3 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 8.36 1.6 1.1 0.5 0.4 3.6 Net fixed rate liabilities 1.6 1.1 0.5 0.4 200.0 203.6 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate are re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
At 28 June 2014, the Group had no interest rate swaps 2013: no interest rate swaps as all interest rate swaps expired during the year ended 29 June 2013.
During the year ended 29 June 2013, the interest swaps resulted in a realised loss of 0.5m.
The net fixed rate liability at 28 June 2014 was nil 2013: nil.
120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
Increase Effect on profit Effect on decrease in before tax equity basis points m m 2014 GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 2013 GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 Liquidity risk The Group has in place a 275.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.
On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are detailed in note 21.
Available liquidity as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 was as follows: 2014 2013 m m Five year syndicated facility 2016 275.0 275.0 200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0 Total core facilities 475.0 475.0 Amount drawn down at 28 June 2014 320.0 333.0 Headroom 155.0 142.0 The Groups road passenger vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five year primary borrowing periods.
This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises.
Foreign currency risk On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was agreed with RBS to ensure dollar investment in our US joint venture is funded by dollar borrowings to provide an effective foreign currency hedge.
The amount drawn on the facility reflects the investment in and the working capital requirements of the Groups share in its US joint venture.
As the investment and borrowings are both denominated in US $ this provides a natural hedge over the Groups foreign currency exposure.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables see note 18 and cash deposits see note 19.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt.
A provision is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows.
The majority of the Groups receivables are with public or quasi-public bodies such as the DfT.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to be a significant credit risk.
Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated Aor A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies.
Our treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any one given financial institution.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 124 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Contractual payments 23.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 based on contractual Interest rate risk table undiscounted payments.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit Year ended 28 June 2014 before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings.
Less than More than Increase Effect on profit Effect on On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total decrease in before tax equity m m m m m m basis points m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3.2 2.2 122.0 127.4 2014 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.4 223.3 233.7 GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 Other financial liabilities 0.9 2.6 1.3 4.8 GBP 50.0 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 73.2 166.9 109.7 349.8 2013 73.2 181.4 114.5 346.6 715.7 GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 Year ended 29 June 2013 Less than More than Liquidity risk On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total The Group has in place a 275.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.
m m m m m m On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, replacing the 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.9 3.0 142.7 146.6 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.4 233.7 244.1 On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are Other financial liabilities 0.4 1.3 1.1 2.8 detailed in note 21.
Trade and other payables 36.6 219.4 33.0 1.0 290.0 Available liquidity as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 was as follows: 36.6 231.1 37.3 378.5 683.5 2014 2013 m m Managing capital Five year syndicated facility 2016 275.0 275.0 The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its 200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0 business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
Total core facilities 475.0 475.0 To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013.
Amount drawn down at 28 June 2014 320.0 333.0 Headroom 155.0 142.0 The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA before exceptionals is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
The Groups road passenger vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to five In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: year primary borrowing periods.
Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Foreign currency risk Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook On 26 July 2010, a $10.0m five year facility was agreed with RBS to ensure dollar investment in our US joint venture is funded by dollar borrowings to provide an effective foreign currency hedge.
Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 28 June 2014.
As the The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x through the cycle.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is set out in note 21 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no specific investment and borrowings are both denominated in US $ this provides a natural hedge over the Groups foreign currency exposure.
actions were required to be taken by the Group to maintain this ratio and ensure the investment grade debt rating.
Credit risk Our primary financial covenant under the 2016 syndicated loan facility was an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x.
Under this facility we The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables see note 18 and cash deposits see note 19.
The maximum credit risk exposure adjusted for the effect of IAS 19 revised of 15.6m 2013: 15.8m resulting in a restated net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.45x 2013: 1.87x.
Under the 2019 of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt.
A provision is made where there syndicated loan facility no adjustment is required and our covenants would have been 1.59x 2013: 2.07x.
is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future cashflows.
The Group does not consider these counterparties to be Operating leases a significant credit risk.
Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding deposits with banks rated Aor A3 The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies.
Our treasury policy outlines the maximum level of deposit that can be placed with any one given of ownership at the end of the contract.
This results in 1.9m 2013: 2.6m of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged financial institution.
The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of 27.0m 2013: 44.2m.
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.
Leases are entered into by the respective operating companies and are not the subject of parent company guarantees.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Derivatives and financial instruments A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price fluctuations.
Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives, long term cash deposits and finance lease hire purchase contracts.
For accounting policies see Financial assets and derivatives, Fair value measurement and Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2. a.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 and are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 0.1 1.7 Current assets 0.6 0.1 2.3 Current liabilities 3.5 1.7 Non-current liabilities 1.4 1.1 4.9 2.8 Net financial liabilities 4.8 0.5 Year ended 28 June 2014 Held for trading Fair value through Total Amortised cost Held to maturity profit and loss carrying value Fair value m m m m m Fuel price derivatives 4.8 4.8 4.8 Long term deposits Net financial liabilities 4.8 4.8 4.8 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 4.8 6.8 6.8 Year ended 29 June 2013 Held for trading Fair value through Total Amortised cost Held to maturity profit and loss carrying value Fair value m m m m m Fuel price derivatives 2.1 2.1 2.1 Long term deposits 1.6 1.6 1.6 Net financial assets liabilities 1.6 2.1 0.5 0.5 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 3.6 3.6 3.6 3.6 1.6 2.1 4.1 4.1 The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 18, 20 and 21 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of 217.2m 2013: 216.6m but is carried at its amortised cost of 198.8m.
The fair value of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded.
The fuel price derivatives were valued externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date.
All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 28 June 2014, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.
During the year ended 28 June 2014, there were no transfers between valuation levels.
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 126 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued b.
Derivatives and financial instruments Fuel derivatives A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its with fuel price fluctuations.
Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives, long term cash deposits and finance lease hire purchase exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
For accounting policies see Financial assets and derivatives, Fair value measurement and Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2.
At the year end, the Group had various fuel price swaps in place.
For the 2015, 2016 and 2017 financial years cashflow hedges were placed over 130, 63 a.
Fair values and 31 million litres of fuel respectively.
The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The value has been generated since The fair values of the Groups financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 and the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.
are as follows: As at 28 June 2014 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 126 million litres for the year ending 27 June 2015, representing approximately 100% of 2014 2013 the anticipated fuel usage in our bus division.
As at 28 June 2014 the Group also had derivatives against bus fuel for the 2016 and 2017 financial years of m m 63 and 31 million litres respectively.
Non-current assets 0.1 1.7 As at 28 June 2014 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 4 million litres for the year ending 27 June 2015, representing the anticipated fuel usage Current assets 0.6 in Southern.
As at 28 June 2014 the Group had no further derivatives for the 2016 or 2017 financial year against rail fuel.
0.1 2.3 The Groups hedging policy for the target percentage of anticipated bus fuel usage hedged for the next year and subsequent two years as at 28 June 2014 Current liabilities 3.5 1.7 is as follows: Non-current liabilities 1.4 1.1 2015 2016 2017 4.9 2.8 Percentage to hedge as per Group policy 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% Net financial liabilities 4.8 0.5 Actual percentage hedged 100.0% 50.0% 25.0% Year ended 28 June 2014 After the year end the Board approved an additional purchase to increase the hedging profile for 2015 16 to 100%, taking advantage of low commodity costs Held for trading Fair value through Total and favourable exchange rates.
Amortised cost Held to maturity profit and loss carrying value Fair value m m m m m 25.
Provisions A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore Fuel price derivatives 4.8 4.8 4.8 often estimated.
The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments.
For accounting Long term deposits policies see Provisions and Uninsured liabilities in note 2.
Net financial liabilities 4.8 4.8 4.8 Restructuring Franchise Uninsured Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 2.0 2.0 2.0 provision Depots commitments claims Other Total 2.0 4.8 6.8 6.8 m m m m m m At 29 June 2013 0.2 51.4 49.6 2.9 104.1 Year ended 29 June 2013 Provided after discounting 17.3 17.7 3.0 0.4 38.4 Held for trading Fair value through Total Utilised 0.1 9.6 17.5 0.6 1.1 28.9 Amortised cost Held to maturity profit and loss carrying value Fair value Released 0.1 6.6 2.0 0.1 8.8 m m m m m Transferred from creditors 1.4 0.7 2.1 Fuel price derivatives 2.1 2.1 2.1 Unwinding of discounting 0.3 0.8 1.1 Long term deposits 1.6 1.6 1.6 At 28 June 2014 54.2 48.6 2.4 2.8 108.0 Net financial assets liabilities 1.6 2.1 0.5 0.5 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 3.6 3.6 3.6 2014 2013 3.6 1.6 2.1 4.1 4.1 m m The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 18, 20 and 21 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 200m Current 66.3 45.6 sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of 217.2m 2013: 216.6m but is carried at its amortised cost of 198.8m.
The fair value of the 200m sterling Non-current 41.7 58.5 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on which the bond is traded.
The fuel price derivatives were valued 108.0 104.1 externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for the relevant date.
Franchise commitments comprise 54.2m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, properties, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises.
Of the dilapidation provisions, 45.4m are classified as current.
The provisions are based on managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors.
During the year 6.6m has been released following the successful renegotiation of Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: certain contract conditions.
The dilapidations will be incurred in order to meet the hand back requirements over the remaining period of the franchise, Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and which at the balance sheet date is anticipated as within one to two years, subject to contract extension negotiations.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by As at 28 June 2014, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of all financial instruments.
the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss.
Of the uninsured claims, 17.5m are classified as current and 31.1m are classified as non-current based on past During the year ended 28 June 2014, there were no transfers between valuation levels.
experience of uninsured claims paid out annually.
It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years.
The restructuring provision of 2.4m relates to the London Midland franchise and has been created to cover the cost of restructuring front line and head office personnel, in order for the franchise to adapt effectively to increasing competitive pressures on the West Coast line.
The restructuring provision is all current.
Within other provisions, 2.4m relates to dilapidations of which 0.6m are classified as current, and 1.8m are classified as non-current.
These provisions relate to the bus division.
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years.
The remaining other current provision of 0.4m relates to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.
124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Issued capital and reserves Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
For accounting policies see Treasury shares in note 2.
Allotted, called up and fully paid 2014 2013 Millions m Millions m As at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7 The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Share capital Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Groups equity, both nominal value and share premium.
Reserve for own shares The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,033,481 ordinary shares 8.6% of share capital, of which 131,251 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate circumstances.
During the year ended 28 June 2014 the Group has not purchased any shares 2013: no shares purchased.
The Group has not cancelled any shares during the year 2013: no shares.
Other reserve The other reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group.
This treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity.
Capital redemption reserve The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares.
Commitments and contingencies A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
Capital commitments 2014 2013 m m Contracted for but not provided 16.2 27.6 In addition, the Group has contractual commitments regarding procurement of rolling stock of 103.0m 2013: nil, to be funded by central Government.
The Group will continue to be involved in rolling stock procurement as part of the Thameslink rolling stock investment programme, in respect of which a contract for the procurement of 116 new rail vehicles was signed on 30 July 2013.
This contract will facilitate the procurement of the new rolling stock, which will in due course be financed by a rolling stock leasing company.
Interim funding has been provided by the DfT, and the Group will not ultimately bear any liability for the new rolling stock.
Contractual commitments The Group also has contractual commitments of 213.8m 2013: 179.5m payable within one year, and 18.7m 2013: 222.1m payable within two to five years, regarding franchise agreement payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise.
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 128 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessee 26.
Issued capital and reserves The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
There are no restrictions Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
For accounting policies see Treasury shares in note 2. placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
Allotted, called up and fully paid Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 were as follows: 2014 2013 Millions m Millions m As at 28 June 2014 Other Rail rolling Rail access As at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 46.9 4.7 46.9 4.7 Bus vehicles Bus property non rail stock charges Rail other m m m m m m The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Within one year 14.7 1.0 243.9 263.9 76.0 Share capital In the second to fifth years inclusive 14.2 1.6 62.3 87.9 17.1 Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Groups equity, both nominal value and share premium.
Over five years 0.3 3.7 Reserve for own shares 29.2 6.3 306.2 351.8 93.1 The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,033,481 ordinary shares 8.6% of share capital, of which 131,251 are held for LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate As at 29 June 2013 circumstances.
The Group has not cancelled Other Rail rolling Rail access any shares during the year 2013: no shares.
Bus vehicles Bus property non rail stock charges Rail other m m m m m m Other reserve Within one year 18.7 0.8 327.8 441.2 118.2 The other reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group.
This treatment is in line In the second to fifth years inclusive 26.8 1.6 0.1 289.6 408.5 84.9 with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Over five years 0.1 3.2 Hedging reserve 45.6 5.6 0.1 617.4 849.7 203.1 The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity.
Details of the lease cost for the year are shown in note 6.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor 27.
Commitments and contingencies The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they sub-lease rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 28 June 2014 and 29 June 2013 were as follows: Capital commitments 2014 2013 2014 2013 Land and Other rail Land and Other rail m m buildings agreements buildings agreements m m m m Contracted for but not provided 16.2 27.6 Within one year 2.1 21.4 3.1 23.8 In addition, the Group has contractual commitments regarding procurement of rolling stock of 103.0m 2013: nil, to be funded by central Government.
In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.3 1.6 3.0 25.9 The Group will continue to be involved in rolling stock procurement as part of the Thameslink rolling stock investment programme, in respect of which Over five years a contract for the procurement of 116 new rail vehicles was signed on 30 July 2013.
This contract will facilitate the procurement of the new rolling stock, 3.4 23.0 6.1 49.7 which will in due course be financed by a rolling stock leasing company.
Performance bonds The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 121.7m 2013: 100.1m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2013: nil, and season Contractual commitments ticket bonds of 162.9m 2013: 157.4m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
The Group also has contractual commitments of 213.8m 2013: 179.5m payable within one year, and 18.7m 2013: 222.1m payable within two to five years, regarding franchise agreement payments to the DfT in respect of the Southern franchise.
These bonds are supported by a 65% several guarantee from The Go-Ahead Group plc and a 35% several guarantee from Keolis UK Limited.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a Workplace Saving Scheme for our employees.
We also administer a defined benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals.
For accounting polices see Retirement benefits in note 2.
Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: Restated Restated 2014 2013 2012 Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total m m m m m m m m m Pre-tax pension liabilities 59.8 59.8 47.7 47.7 22.8 22.8 Deferred tax asset 12.0 12.0 11.0 11.0 5.5 5.5 Post-tax pension scheme liabilities 47.8 47.8 36.7 36.7 17.3 17.3 Remeasurement losses gains on defined benefit pension plans 27.7 13.2 14.5 30.1 10.4 19.7 Bus schemes The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Go-Ahead Plan, which consists of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows.
The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme.
It was closed to new entrants during the year ended 28 June 2014 and replaced by a Workplace Saving Scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
The expense recognised for the defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead plan is 9.0m 2013: 6.9m, being the contributions paid and payable.
The expense recognised for the Workplace Saving Scheme is 0.9m 2013: n a being the contributions paid and payable.
The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a members final salary.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
Previously, the section had been effectively closed to new entrants, however existing members continued to build up further Final Salary benefits.
However, during the year ended 28 June 2014, the Group commenced a formal consultation process with existing members and their representatives to close the defined benefit section to future accrual and to offer members the opportunity to join the defined contribution section instead.
On 31 March 2014, the defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead plan was closed to future accrual for all members.
The Go-Ahead Plan is a Group plan for related companies where risks are shared.
The overall costs of the Go-Ahead plan have been recognised in the Groups financial statements according to IAS 19 revised.
Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of contributions paid by that company.
The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 revised cost of the scheme and the aggregate contributions paid.
The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
This regulatory framework requires the trustees of the plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the necessary contributions as part of each triennial valuation.
The last actuarial valuation of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2012.
The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return seeking assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on plan assets.
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy.
Other pension plans Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan.
This scheme is externally funded and is now closed to new entrants.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
Summary of year end assumptions 2014 2013 % % Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 Consumer price index inflation 2.0 2.0 Discount rate 4.3 4.7 Rate of increase in salaries n a 4.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 2.0 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 130 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting 28.
Retirement benefit obligations assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a Workplace Saving Scheme for our employees.
We also administer a defined benefit 2014 2013 pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals.
Years Years Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: Pensioner 20 20 Restated Restated Non-pensioner 21 21 2014 2013 2012 Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total Sensitivity analysis m m m m m m m m m In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact Pre-tax pension liabilities 59.8 59.8 47.7 47.7 22.8 22.8 of the change in the key assumptions.
In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown.
Deferred tax asset 12.0 12.0 11.0 11.0 5.5 5.5 2014 Post-tax pension scheme liabilities 47.8 47.8 36.7 36.7 17.3 17.3 Pension deficit Remeasurement losses gains on defined % benefit pension plans 27.7 13.2 14.5 30.1 10.4 19.7 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 Bus schemes Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% n a The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Go-Ahead Plan, which consists of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows.
Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme.
It was closed to new entrants during the Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation year ended 28 June 2014 and replaced by a Workplace Saving Scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
The expense recognised for the The following table shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan.
defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead plan is 9.0m 2013: 6.9m, being the contributions paid and payable.
The expense recognised for the m Workplace Saving Scheme is 0.9m 2013: n a being the contributions paid and payable.
June 2015 20.5 The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a members final salary.
Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the advice of June 2016 21.2 an independent qualified actuary.
Previously, the section had been effectively closed to new entrants, however existing members continued to build up further June 2017 21.9 Final Salary benefits.
However, during the year ended 28 June 2014, the Group commenced a formal consultation process with existing members and their June 2018 22.6 representatives to close the defined benefit section to future accrual and to offer members the opportunity to join the defined contribution section instead.
June 2019 23.3 On 31 March 2014, the defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead plan was closed to future accrual for all members.
June 2020 to June 2024 128.6 The Go-Ahead Plan is a Group plan for related companies where risks are shared.
Category of assets at the year end The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 revised cost of the scheme and the aggregate contributions paid.
2014 2013 The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
This regulatory m % m % framework requires the trustees of the plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding target, and the necessary contributions Equities 206.4 34.2 212.5 37.3 as part of each triennial valuation.
Bonds 34.4 5.7 31.3 5.5 The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other return seeking Property 33.8 5.6 30.8 5.4 assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than expected returns on plan assets.
Liability driven investing portfolio 315.0 52.2 282.5 49.6 Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy.
Cash other 13.9 2.3 12.5 2.2 Other pension plans 603.5 100.0 569.6 100.0 Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan.
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets.
Summary of year end assumptions Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2014 2013 2014 2013 % % m m Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 Employers share of pension scheme: Consumer price index inflation 2.0 2.0 Liabilities at the end of the year 663.3 617.3 Discount rate 4.3 4.7 Assets at fair value 603.5 569.6 Rate of increase in salaries n a 4.3 Pension scheme liability 59.8 47.7 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 2.0 Pension cost for the financial year In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
Restated The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
2014 2013 m m Service cost 4.8 6.1 Administration costs 1.9 1.7 Interest cost on net liabilities 2.0 0.8 Total pension costs 8.7 8.6 128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year Restated 2014 2013 m m Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 617.3 558.7 Service cost 6.9 9.3 Interest cost 28.2 27.3 Remeasurement losses gains due to: Experience on benefit obligations 2.8 18.1 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 12.0 Changes in financial assumptions 44.1 46.4 Curtailments 15.1 Benefits paid 21.1 18.3 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 663.3 617.3 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year Restated 2014 2013 m m Fair value of assets at start of year 569.6 535.9 Interest income of plan assets 26.2 26.5 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 19.4 10.2 Administration costs 1.9 1.7 Group contributions 9.2 13.8 Employee contributions including age related rebates 2.1 3.2 Benefits paid 21.1 18.3 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 603.5 569.6 Estimated contributions for future m Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2015 4.7 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2015 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2015 4.7 Rail schemes The Railways Pension Scheme the RPS The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared costs scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
The RPS sections are all open to new entrants and the assets and liabilities of each companys section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes.
BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of 0.9m 2013: 0.8m were paid in the year.
It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
However, in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
On entering into a franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 132 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Summary of year end assumptions 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 2014 2013 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year % % Restated Retail price index inflation 3.3 3.3 2014 2013 m m Consumer price index inflation 2.0 2.0 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 617.3 558.7 Discount rate 4.3 4.7 Service cost 6.9 9.3 Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 4.3 Interest cost 28.2 27.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 2.0 Remeasurement losses gains due to: In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
Experience on benefit obligations 2.8 18.1 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
Changes in demographic assumptions 0.2 12.0 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The life expectancy of a male member at age 65, is 22 years and 24 years Changes in financial assumptions 44.1 46.4 for a pensioner and non-pensioner respectively.
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 28 June 2014 are based on the initial results of the latest funding Curtailments 15.1 valuation as at 31 December 2013.
The mortality assumptions adopted as at 29 June 2013 are based on the funding valuation as at December 2010.
Benefits paid 21.1 18.3 This includes different assumptions for different subsections of each Schemes membership.
Factors used to differentiate between members include level Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 663.3 617.3 of pension in payment, pensionable pay and member postcodes.
These factors were used as they have been shown to impact upon life expectancy.
The mortality tables used were the S1 SAPS tables, published by the CMI on 31 October 2008.
As such, different members will have different life expectancies, Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year dependent on their characteristics, and it is not possible to quote a single life expectancy figure.
Restated Sensitivity analysis 2014 2013 m m In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For rail pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
Fair value of assets at start of year 569.6 535.9 2014 Interest income of plan assets 26.2 26.5 Pension deficit Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 19.4 10.2 % Administration costs 1.9 1.7 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 2.0 Group contributions 9.2 13.8 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 2.0 Employee contributions including age related rebates 2.1 3.2 Rate of increase in salaries increase of 0.1% 0.5 Benefits paid 21.1 18.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 1.1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 603.5 569.6 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.1 Estimated contributions for future Category of assets at the year end m 2014 2013 Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2015 4.7 m % m % Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2015 Equities 1,131.5 89.5 1,040.2 89.7 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2015 4.7 Bonds 64.5 5.1 58.0 5.0 Rail schemes Property 60.7 4.8 54.5 4.7 The Railways Pension Scheme the RPS Cash 7.6 0.6 6.9 0.6 The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared costs 1,264.3 100.0 1,159.6 100.0 scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements It is our experience that all pension obligations to the RPS cease on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations Restated 2014 2013 recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
However, in spite of our m m past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
On entering into a franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed Employers share of pension scheme: with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract.
Liabilities at the end of the year 1,601.6 1,427.4 The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
Assets at fair value 1,264.3 1,159.6 Gross deficit 337.3 267.8 Franchise adjustment 337.3 267.8 Pension scheme liability 130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Pension cost for the financial year Restated 2014 2013 m m Service cost 45.2 40.4 Administration costs 1.9 3.1 Interest cost on net liabilities 12.7 11.3 Interest on franchise adjustments 12.7 11.3 Pension cost 47.1 43.5 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year Restated 2014 2013 m m Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 1,427.4 1,264.6 Franchise adjustment 267.8 224.9 1,159.6 1,039.7 Liability movement for members share of assets 56.6 60.9 Service cost 45.2 40.4 Interest cost 44.0 42.2 Interest on franchise adjustment 12.7 11.3 Remeasurement losses gains due to: Experience on benefit obligations 15.8 20.7 Changes in demographic assumptions 52.6 87.3 Changes in financial assumptions 1.5 13.5 Benefits paid 38.5 33.4 Franchise adjustment movement 56.8 32.0 1,264.3 1,159.6 Franchise adjustment 337.3 267.8 Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 1,601.6 1,427.4 Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year Restated 2014 2013 m m Fair value of assets at start of year 1,159.6 1,039.7 Interest income of plan assets 31.6 31.3 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 23.2 31.5 Administration costs 3.2 5.1 Group contributions 34.0 33.1 Benefits paid 38.5 33.4 Members share of movement of assets 57.6 62.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,264.3 1,159.6 Estimated contributions for future m Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2015 25.5 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2015 16.9 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2015 42.4 132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 134 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued IAS 19 revised would require the Group to account for its legal obligation under the formal terms of the RPS and its constructive obligation under the 28.
Retirement benefit obligations continued terms of each franchise agreement.
Following industry practice, the Group has concluded that the appropriate accounting policy for the RPS to ensure that Pension cost for the financial year the financial statements present fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and cashflows, is to recognise its constructive but not its legal RPS Restated defined benefit obligations.
In all other respects the Groups accounting policy is consistent with IAS 19 revised and the treatment adopted for non-rail 2014 2013 defined benefit schemes.
In doing so, the Group has applied the provisions of paragraph 17 of IAS 1 and departed from the requirements of IAS 19 revised m m in order to achieve a fair presentation of the Groups obligations regarding its rail schemes and prevent gains arising on transfer of the existing RPS deficits Service cost 45.2 40.4 to a new franchise owner at exit.
Administration costs 1.9 3.1 The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end Interest cost on net liabilities 12.7 11.3 of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
Interest on franchise adjustments 12.7 11.3 If the Group had accounted for the rail schemes in accordance with the full provisions of IAS 19 revised the following adjustments would have been made Pension cost 47.1 43.5 to the financial statements: Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year Restated 2014 2013 Restated m m 2014 2013 m m Balance sheet Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 1,427.4 1,264.6 Defined benefit pension plan 337.3 267.8 Franchise adjustment 267.8 224.9 Deferred tax asset 67.5 61.6 1,159.6 1,039.7 269.8 206.2 Liability movement for members share of assets 56.6 60.9 Other comprehensive income Service cost 45.2 40.4 Remeasurement gains 56.8 32.0 Interest cost 44.0 42.2 Tax on remeasurement gains 11.4 7.4 Interest on franchise adjustment 12.7 11.3 45.4 24.6 Remeasurement losses gains due to: Income statement Experience on benefit obligations 15.8 20.7 Operating costs franchise adjustment 12.7 11.3 Changes in demographic assumptions 52.6 87.3 Deferred tax charge 2.5 2.6 Changes in financial assumptions 1.5 13.5 10.2 8.7 Benefits paid 38.5 33.4 Risks associated with defined benefit plans Franchise adjustment movement 56.8 32.0 1,264.3 1,159.6 Bus schemes The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Franchise adjustment 337.3 267.8 Plan, closed to future accrual.
Consequently, the number of defined contribution members is increasing.
Employers share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 1,601.6 1,427.4 Rail schemes Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the Railways Pension Scheme are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, Restated the train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is only short term cashflow risk within 2014 2013 this business.
m m The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: Fair value of assets at start of year 1,159.6 1,039.7 Risk Description Mitigation Interest income of plan assets 31.6 31.3 Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in all Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 23.2 31.5 to bond yields with maturity profiles matching pension maturity: if significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are rewarded Administration costs 3.2 5.1 assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
Most of the and that we have a balance of risk seeking and liability driven Group contributions 34.0 33.1 defined benefit arrangements hold a proportion of return-seeking investments.
Benefits paid 38.5 33.4 assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return Members share of movement of assets 57.6 62.5 funds, and to offset the additional risk, hold a proportion in liability driven investments, which should reduce volatility.
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,264.3 1,159.6 Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are linked The business has some inflation linking in its revenue streams, Estimated contributions for future to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities.
which helps to offset this risk.
m Life expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual reducing Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2015 25.5 for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result exposure to increases in life expectancy risk.
in an increase in the liabilities.
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2015 16.9 Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these have led The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual Estimated total contributions in financial year 2015 42.4 to increases in obligations, introducing pension increases, and reducing risk to legislative change.
The Group takes professional vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced investment return advice to keep abreast of legislative changes.
through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax.
The UK Government has legislated to end contracting out in 2016.
Further legislation could result in an increase in the value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
If this legislation is implemented, this would increase the defined benefit obligation of the arrangements.
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 133 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings Our subsidiaries are located across the country and each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group.
The Group has a number of related parties including joint ventures, pension schemes and directors.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following material Group undertakings: % equity interest Name Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Principal subsidiaries 1 Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go North East Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go Northern Limited United Kingdom 100 100 London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 London Central Bus Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Dockland Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Blue Triangle Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Metrobus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Konectbus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Travel Wallingford Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Hedingham and District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 HC Chambers and Son Limited United Kingdom 100 100 2 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 2 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 2 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 2 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 2 Govia Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Go-Ahead Leasing Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Holding LLC United States of America 100 100 Jointly controlled entities Go-Ahead North America LLC United States of America 50 50 1 Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc.
All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings.
2 The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
Transactions with other related parties The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions to the trustees.
Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to 0.2m 2013: 0.2m.
The Group owns 50% of the ordinary shares in Go-Ahead North America, a 50:50 joint venture with Cook-Illinois.
Details of transactions and balances are included in note 4.
In addition, 0.3m 2013: 0.3m of loans was repaid to the Group by Go-Ahead North America during the year.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The key management are considered to be the directors of the Group.
2014 2013 m m Short term employee benefits 2.0 1.4 Long term employee benefits 2.0 0.8 Post employment benefits 0.1 0.1 4.1 2.3 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 136
