Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 Additional Information Directors and their interests The names of the Directors in office during the year, together with their relevant interests in the share capital of the Company at 29 December 2013 and 3 January 2015 or at date of appointment if later are set out in Note 26 to the accounts.
Details of Directors share options are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63.
7.1 of the Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board at the AGM and offer themselves for election in the case of Sandra Turner or re-election by shareholders.
The Nominations Committee has considered the appropriateness and suitability of each Director standing for election and has recommended to the Board that each individual should be put forward for election or re-election.
Directors indemnities and conflicts As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their duties, powers or responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
The indemnities do not apply in situations where the relevant Director has been guilty of fraud or wilful misconduct.
Under the authority granted to them in the Companys articles of association, the Board has considered carefully any situation declared by any Director pursuant to which they have or might have a conflict of interest and, where it considers it appropriate to do so, has authorised the continuation of that situation.
In exercising its authority, the Directors have had regard to their statutory and other duties to the Company.
Additional Information The information set out within the Governance Report on pages 38 to 42 forms part of the Directors Report.
Greenhouse gas emissions: All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Review on page 33.
Authority to purchase shares At the AGM on 1 May 2014, the shareholders passed a resolution authorising the purchase by the Company of its own shares to a maximum of 10,350,000 ordinary shares of 2p each.
That authority had not been used as at 3 January 2015.
The authority remains in force until the conclusion of the AGM in 2015 or 1 August 2015, whichever is the earlier.
It is the Boards intention to seek approval at the 2015 AGM for the renewal of this authority.
Takeover directive information Following the implementation of the European Directive on Takeover Bids by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose certain additional information in the Directors Report.
This information is set out below.
The Company has one class of share in issue being ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 4 March 2015, there were 101,155,901 such ordinary shares in issue.
There are no shares in the Company that grant the holder special rights with regard to control of the Company: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote only and, in the case of a poll, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share in the capital of the Company held by him: The Companys articles of association set out the circumstances in which shares may become disenfranchised.
No shareholder is entitled, unless the Directors otherwise determine, in respect of any share held by him to be present or vote at a general meeting either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to meetings of the Company in respect of that share in certain circumstances if any call or other sum is payable and remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in default in complying with a duly served notice under section 793 1 of the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 or if the shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice requiring him to provide a written statement stating he is the beneficial owner of shares: A notice convening a general meeting can contain a statement that a shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting unless his name is entered on the register of members of the Company at a specific time not more than 48 hours before the meeting and if a shareholders name is not so entered he is not entitled to attend and vote: Under the Companys articles of association the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certified form in certain circumstances where the Company has a lien on the share provided that the Directors do not exercise their discretion so as to prevent dealings in partly paid shares from taking place on an open and proper basis, where a shareholder has failed to reply to a duly served notice under section 793 1 CA 2006 or if a transfer of a share is in favour of more than four persons jointly.
In addition, the Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in respect of only one class of share and is deposited at the address at which the register of members of the Company is held or at such other place as the Directors may determine accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
In respect of shares held in uncertificated form the Directors may only refuse to register transfers in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended from time to time : 98 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Additional Information continued Under the Companys code on dealings in securities in the Company, persons discharging managerial responsibilities and some other senior executives may in certain circumstances be restricted as to when they can transfer shares in the Company: There are no agreements between shareholders known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights: Details of the significant holders of the Companys shares are set out on page 42: Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant: The Companys articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders: The Companys articles of association set out how Directors are appointed and replaced.
Directors can be appointed by the Board or by the shareholders in a general meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting, any Director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting must retire from office but is eligible for election by the shareholders.
Furthermore, the Board has resolved that, in line with Governance Code provision B.
7.1, all of the Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Under the CA 2006 and the Companys articles of association, a Director can be removed from office by the shareholders in a general meeting: The Companys articles of association set out the powers of the Directors.
The business of the Company is to be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company and do on behalf of the Company all such acts as may be exercised and done by the Company and are not by any relevant statutes or by the Companys articles of association required to be exercised or done by the Company in general meeting, subject to the provisions of any relevant statutes and the Companys articles of association and to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Company by special resolution: Under the CA 2006 and the Companys articles of association, the Directors powers include the power to allot and buyback shares in the Company.
At each Annual General Meeting, resolutions are proposed granting and setting out the limits on these powers: The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, following a takeover bid: and There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Details of the Directors service agreements and terms of appointment are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 63.
However, provisions in the employee share plans operated by the Company may allow options to be exercised on a takeover.
Employees Applications for employment of disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Company continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Directors recognise the importance of good communications and good relations with employees.
A weekly bulletin is sent to all shop staff and quarterly bulletin to all bakery employees.
Significant relationships The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and, therefore, no such relationships have been disclosed.
Notes Notes Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial calendar Announcement of results and dividends Half year Early August Full year Early March Dividends Interim Mid-October Final 8 May 2015 Annual report posted to shareholders Late March Annual General Meeting 30 April 2015 Secretary and advisers Secretary Auditor Solicitors Jonathan D Jowett, LL.
M. Solicitor KPMG Muckle LLP Quayside House Time Central Registered office 110 Quayside 32 Gallowgate Fernwood House Newcastle upon Tyne Newcastle upon Tyne Clayton Road NE1 3DX NE1 4BF Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne Stockbrokers Registrars NE2 1TL UBS Capita Registrars 1 Finsbury Avenue Bourne House Registered number London 34 Beckenham Road 502851 EC2M 2PA Beckenham Kent Bankers Nplus1 Singer LLP BR3 4TU National Westminster Bank Plc Time Central 149 High Street 32 Gallowgate Gosforth Newcastle upon Tyne Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4SR NE3 1HA Our choice of paper Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision is important to us.
Thats why this report is printed on FSC-approved paper produced from well-managed forests.
The entire publication has been printed using mineral oil free inks by a FSC-recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification.
The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity.
Greggs plc Fernwood House Clayton Road Jesmond Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1TL Company Registered Number 502851 greggs.
