Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Code of best practice Therefore, with the exception of Norman Blackwell and Steve As required by the Listing Rules this Report explains how the Marshall, in accordance with the Code each of the Directors, being Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions eligible, will offer themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
ofthe Corporate Governance Code the Code that was published Norman Blackwell and Steve Marshall will be retiring from the in2012 by the Financial Reporting Council which applied to the Board with effect from the end of the AGM, at which time Roy Twite Company throughout the year ended 29 March 2014. will be joining the Board.
Further details on their resignations and appointment are provided on pages 62, 64 and 71.
Throughout the year, the Company has fully complied with the provisions as set out in the Code.
The Groups internal controls Annual Report and Accounts are detailed on page 65.
In accordance with the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, The Board has determined its ideal composition as a Chairman, five is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, The Board adjudged this composition as an appropriate structure business model and strategy.
forthe Company providing valuable direct knowledge of operations and effective challenge surrounding the issues facing the Group.
TheBoard reverted to its ideal composition following Geoff Unwins retirement after the 2013 annual general meeting.
Reporting Requirements Chart Reporting requirement Location Description of the business model and strategy.
Chief Executives Strategic Review and Sector Reviews See pages 10 to 27 and 34 to 41 Description of the significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in Audit Committee Report relation to the financial statements and how these issues were addressed, See pages 68 and 69 having regard to the matters communicated to it by the external audit team.
Explanation of how the Audit Committee has assessed the effectiveness Audit Committee Report of the external audit process and the approach taken to the appointment See pages 67 and 68 or reappointment of the external auditor to enable shareholders to understand why it recommended reappointing or changing the auditor.
Identification of search consultancies used and any connections with Corporate Governance Report and the Company.
Nomination Committee report See pages 62 and 71 Statement that the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Corporate Governance Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Audit Committee Report and provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the See pages 59 and 69 Companys business model and strategy.
Future policy table and notes, performance scenario charts, remuneration Remuneration Committee Report obligations in service contracts and statement of shareholder vote on the See pages 72 to 89 2012 13 remuneration report.
Implementation report, remuneration paid to service advisers, single total Remuneration Committee Report figure tables, CEO pay comparison to company performance and relative See pages 72 to 89 importance of spend on pay.
Directors shareholdings and variable pay awarded in the year.
Remuneration Committee Report See pages 72 to 89 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
