Notes to the Company Accounts Notes to the Company Accounts C1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The separate Company financial statements are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006 and have been prepared on the historical cost basis and comply with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The principal Company accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding years and are described below.
Related parties The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing transactions with other members of the Halma Group.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The Company has adopted FRS 20 and the accounting policies followed are in all material respects the same as the Groups policy under IFRS 2.
This policy is shown on page 107.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Fixed assets and depreciation Fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on all fixed assets on the straight-line method, each item being written off over its estimated life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold property 2% Plant, equipment and vehicles 8% to 33.3% Leases The costs of operating leases of property and other assets are charged on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Pensions The Company makes contributions to defined contribution pension plans, which are charged against profits when they become payable.
The Company also participates in a Group-wide defined benefit pension plan.
This plan is operated on a basis that does not enable individual companies to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities, and in accordance with FRS 17 the Company accounts for its contributions to the plan as if it was a defined contribution plan.
Taxation Taxation comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable, on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantially enacted, at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The Company provides for deferred tax because of timing differences between profits as computed for taxation purposes and profits as stated in the accounts, on an undiscounted basis.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised if recovery is considered more likely than not on the basis of all available evidence.
Bank borrowings Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in profit or loss and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
146 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 146 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
