Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halma plc Opinion on financial statements of Halma plc In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 29 March 2014 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Consolidated Income Statement, the Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Group Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 31 and C1 to C12.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within page 65 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of goodwill and intangible assets We challenged the adequacy and reasonableness of assumptions There is a risk relating to the assumptions and assertions used by used in managements impairment calculations and the management to support their assessment of both the recoverable appropriateness of judgements and forecasts used to conclude on amount of goodwill and intangible assets.
There are a number of key asset impairment including a specific review and challenge of discount judgements in determining their recoverable amounts, including rates and growth rates, the appropriateness of the level of aggregation growth rates, discount rates applied and the forecast future of individual cash generating units CGUs and the methodology trading performance.
We benchmarked the discount rates with published rates for the external peer group and agreed the CGU groupings to information reviewed by management to make decisions about their business.
We also challenged the forecast cash flows used in the model against historical performance and post period trading data.
We recalculated managements sensitivity analysis and replaced key assumptions with alternative scenario values applying the highest discount rate applied by peer group companies, capping the short-term growth rates at long term rates and capping the growth assumed in the budgets at historical growth levels.
Having audited the assumptions within managements annual impairment assessment, we checked the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment model.
We also assessed whether the annual report disclosure included specific growth and discount rates for those deemed to be significant CGUs.
Acquisition accounting For historical acquisitions we compared the forecast contingent There is a risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly consideration positions to post year end trading results, approved in line with IFRS 3 Business combinations.
The risk relates to the budgets and historical levels of settlement.
We recalculated the release assumptions and assertions used by management to forecast future of 12m of the balance based on the latest management budgets and trading performance to determine both the fair value of acquired assessed whether management has disclosed adequately the release assets and future contingent consideration payments.
For this of the provision in the Consolidated Income Statement.
We agreed the period there is a risk that the contingent consideration provisions are underlying data in the contingent consideration calculation to signed provided at the incorrect value, based on inaccurate forecasts.
This sale and purchase agreements and the trading performance to would result in future cost variances on settlement being recorded the audited entity trial balance for the current period.
We assessed in that periods Consolidated Income Statement.
whether managements treatment of contingent consideration payment arrangements for former owners, as either additional purchase consideration or post-acquisition remuneration, is appropriate.
We obtained calculations updating the fair value adjustments for material acquisitions in the prior period and confirmed that the period of asessement was correct as well as confirming that the adjustment was supported by actual trading data.
94 94 H Ha allm ma p a pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 201 14 4
