Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 41.
ACQUISITION OF A BUSINESS On 15 July 2014, Hikma announced that it had completed its acquisition of the US generic injectables business, Bedford Laboratories Bedford from Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. Ben Venue, a member of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group of Companies.
The consideration for the acquisition comprised an upfront cash payment of $225 million which was paid on 15 July 2014 and contingent cash payments, subjectto the achievement of performance-related milestones over a period of five years from closing the transaction.
Hikma acquired Bedfords largeproduct portfolio of 82 products, intellectual property rights, inventories, a strong R&D and business development pipeline anda number of employees across key business functions.
Moreover, on 17 September 2014, Hikma completed the acquisition of all the assets of Ben Venue generics injectables manufacturing site in Bedford, Ohio.
The acquisition is pursuant to the exclusivity arrangement entered into with BenVenue on28 May2014.
No incremental consideration was payable in relation to Hikma acquiring the Ben Venue manufacturing site.
The net assets acquired in the transaction and the provisional goodwill arising are set out below: Provisional fair value Net assets acquired $m a Product-related intangibles 123 b Inventories 15 c Tangible fixed assets 53 d Deferred taxes liabilities 13 Net assets acquired 178 Goodwill 51 Total consideration 229 Discharged by: Cash 225 Deferred consideration 4 229 Cash flows Cash consideration 225 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition 225 a. Product-related intangibles principally represent product files owned by Bedford b.
Inventory acquired included raw materials consisting of chemicals and components and finished goods c. The property, plant and equipment acquired have been valued by a third party expert at current market values d. Taxable temporary differences associated with the tangible assets acquired have been identified by reference to IAS 12 Income tax The goodwill arising represents synergies that will be obtained through increasing the scale of Hikmas Injectables business Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes The revenue and net loss from the date of the acquisition that is included in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income forthe year amounted to $7 million and $9 million, respectively.
