OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES Minimum lease Present value of minimum payments lease payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 2 3 1 1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 27 24 23 19 29 27 24 20 Less: interest lease charges 5 7 Present value of minimum lease payments payable 24 20 It is the Groups policy to lease certain of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term is five years 2013: fiveyears.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the average effective borrowing rate was between 0.75% and 9.61% 2013:between0.9% and 9.0%.
FINANCIAL POLICIES FOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND THEIR OBJECTIVES Credit and concentration of risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and investments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful debts, chargebacks, without recourse discounts, and other allowances.
A provision for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
In line with local market practice, customers in the MENA region are offered relatively long payment terms compared to customers in Europe and the US.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Groups largest three customers in the MENA region represented 8.6% of Group revenue: 5.8% from one customer in Saudi Arabia, and a combined 2.8% from two customers in Algeria.
At 31 December 2014, the amount of receivables due from customers based in Saudi Arabia was $110 million 2013: $100 million, and in Algeria was $46 million 2013: $74 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, three key US wholesalers represented 37% of Group revenue 2013: 33.3%.
Sales of the US reflect success in capturing specific market opportunities.
The amount of receivables due from US customers at 31 December 2014 was $75 million 2013: $76 million.
The Group manages this risk through the implementation of stringent credit policies, procedures and certain credit insurance agreements.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative factors related to the credit worthiness of a particular customer.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range from 3090 days, in Europe 30120 days and in MENA 180360 days.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
Market risk The Groups objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings and cash flow associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates.
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
Management actively monitors these exposures to manage the volatility relating to these exposures by entering into a variety of derivative financial instruments.
151 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 29.
FINANCIAL POLICIES FOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND THEIR OBJECTIVES CONTINUED Capital risk management The Group manages its capital and monitors its liquidity to have reasonable assurance that the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and deliver its growth strategy objectives while reducing its cost of capital and maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity mix.
The Group regularly reviews the capital structure by considering the level of available capital and the short to medium-term strategic plans concerning future capital spend, as well as the need to meet dividends, banking covenants and borrowing ratios.
The Group defines capital as equity plus net funds, which include bank overdrafts and loans Note 23, obligations under finance leases Note28, long-term financial debts Note 27, net of cash and cash equivalents Note 22 and collateralised and restricted cash Note 21.
During the year, the Group continued its strategy of obtaining debt financing at both Group level and at the operating entities level.
This enables the Group to borrow at competitive rates and to build relationships with local and international banks and is therefore deemed to be the most effective means of raising finance, while maintaining the balance between borrowing cost, asset and liability management and balance sheet currency risk management.
In order to monitor the available net funds, management reviews financial capital reports on a monthly basis in addition to the continuous review by the Group treasury function.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups gearing debt equity was 46% 2013: 43% : the increase in the Groups gearing ratio is due to the utilisation of a $225 million bridge loan to finance the acquisition of Bedford see Note 23, partially offset by a prepayment of a part of the syndicated term loan $70 million.
Foreign exchange risk The Group uses the US Dollar as its presentation currency and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange movements primarily in the Euro, Algerian Dinar, Sudanese Pound, Japanese Yen, Egyptian Pound, Tunisian Dinar and Moroccan Dirham.
Consequently, where possible, the Group enters into various contracts, which change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to hedge against the risk of movement in foreign denominated assets and liabilities.
Due to the lack of open currency markets, the Algerian Dinar, the Sudanese Pound and the Egyptian Pound cannot be hedged.
Where possible, the Group uses financing facilities denominated in local currencies to mitigate the risks.
The Jordanian Dinar and Saudi Riyal had no impact on the consolidated income statement as those currencies are currently pegged against theUS Dollar.
Interest rate risk The Group manages its exposure to interest rate risk by changing the proportion of debt that is floating by entering into interest rate swap agreements.
Using these derivative financial instruments has not had a material impact on the Groups financial position as at 31 December2014 or the Groups results of operations for the year then ended.
As at 31 December As at 31 December 2014 2013 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 118 444 562 147 295 442 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 199 199 109 109 An interest rate sensitivity analysis assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point change in interest rates in all currencies from their levels at 31 December 2014, with all other variables held constant.
Based on the composition of the Groups debt portfolio as at 31 December 2014, a1% increase decrease in interest rates would result in an additional $2.5 million 2013: $1.8 million in interest expense income being incurred per year.
FINANCIAL POLICIES FOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND THEIR OBJECTIVES CONTINUED Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Management classifies items that are recognised at fair value based on the level of inputs used in their fair value determination as described below: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: Inputs that are observable for the asset or liability: and Level 3: Inputs that are not based on observable market data.
The Group has no material fair value financial assets and liabilities except the contingent consideration as disclosed below.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value: cash and cash equivalents due to the short-term maturities of these financial instruments and given that generally they have negligible credit risk, management considers the carrying amounts to be not significantly different from their fair values: short-term loans and overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments: long-term loans the majority of the loans are variable rate and re-price in response to any changes in market rates and so management considers thecarrying amount to be not significantly different from their fair market value.
For fixed-rate loan exposures, fair value is estimated by discounting thefuture cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities of such loans: over the counter OTC derivative contracts may include forward, swap and option contracts relating to interest rates or foreign currencies and arevalued based on Level 2 market prices and prevailing exchange rates at the balance sheet date: receivables and payables the fair values of receivables and payables are estimated to be equal to the respective carrying amounts: lease obligations are valued at the present value of the minimum lease payments: and contingent consideration the key input into the contingent consideration Level 3 financial liabilities is the future profitability of the business to which thecontingent consideration relate.
The range of possible outcomes for the fair value of this option is $nil to $75 million 31 December 2013: $nil.
Currency risk Currency risks as defined by IFRS 7 arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is other than the functional currency of an entity and being of a monetary nature.
FINANCIAL POLICIES FOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND THEIR OBJECTIVES CONTINUED The Jordanian Dinar and Saudi Riyal have no impact on the consolidated income statement as those currencies are currently pegged totheUS Dollar.
Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US Dollar Euro British Pound Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 112 1 54 29 Euro 16 Algerian Dinar 72 6 Saudi Riyal 8 2 1 Sudanese Pound 16 1 Egyptian Pound 19 3 Tunisian Dinar 4 1 Lebanese Pound 3 5 US Dollar 19 57 22 8 54 1 82 Others include the Saudi Riyal and Jordanian Dinar Sensitivity analysis: Impact on profit or loss assuming 1% appreciation of foreign currency against functional currency as at year end US Dollar Euro British Pound Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 1 1 Euro Algerian Dinar 1 Saudi Riyal Sudanese Pound Egyptian Pound Tunisian Dinar Lebanese Pound US Dollar 1 1 1 154 Financial statements 29.
FINANCIAL POLICIES FOR RISK MANAGEMENT AND THEIR OBJECTIVES CONTINUED Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities US Dollar Euro British Pound Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 96 18 148 25 Euro 11 Algerian Dinar 142 Saudi Riyal 23 2 2 Sudanese Pound 22 1 Egyptian Pound 8 1 Tunisian Dinar 5 1 Moroccan Dirham Lebanese Pound 4 7 US Dollar 29 2 4 51 46 2 148 2 22 Others include the Saudi Riyal and Jordanian Dinar Sensitivity analysis: Impact on profit or loss assuming 1% appreciation of foreign currency against functional currency as at year end US Dollar Euro British Pound Algerian Dinar Japanese Yen Others 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Functional currency of entity: Jordanian Dinar 1 1 Euro Algerian Dinar 1 Saudi Riyal Sudanese Pound Egyptian Pound Tunisian Dinar Moroccan Dirham Lebanese Pound US Dollar 1 155
