EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AND INTANGIBLE AMORTISATION Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement to assist in the understanding of the Groups underlying performance.
2014 2013 $m $m Acquisition-related costs 11 Other costs: Severance costs 1 Plant remediation costs 24 Impairment losses 10 Other claims provisions 11 Exceptional items included in operating profit 11 46 Impairment of investment in associates 16 Exceptional items included in profit 11 62 Intangible amortisation 14 15 Exceptional items and intangible amortisation 25 77 Tax effect 4 15 Impact on profit for the year 21 62 Intangible amortisation comprises the amortisation of intangible assets other than software Acquisition-related expenses Acquisition-related expenses are costs incurred in acquiring Bedford Laboratories see Note 41.
Acquisition-related expenses are included in the unallocated corporate expenses and mainly comprise third party consulting services, legalandprofessional fees.
In previous periods exceptional items related to the following: Other costs Severance expenses in 2013 related to restructuring of management teams in MENA.
Plant remediation costs were related to the write-down of inventory of some products and costs that were incurred for compliance work atour Eatontown facility in response to observations made by the US FDA.
Remediation costs were included in other operating expenses.
Impairment losses were related to the write-off of intangible product rights of $8 million, in addition to the write-off of certain property, plantand equipment of $2 million.
Impairment of intangible assets was included in research and development.
Impairment of fixed assets wasincluded in other operating expenses.
Other claims provisions related to the Groups best estimate of the ultimate settlement amount of claims outstanding in 2013 and was included in other operating expenses.
Impairment of investment in associates During 2011, Hikma acquired a minority interest in Unimark Remedies Limited Unimark in India for a cash consideration of $34 million.
Unimark manufactures Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients API and API intermediates.
Unimark has been impacted by a decline in prices initsAPI manufacturing business.
During 2013, the Group recognised an impairment charge of $16 million in respect of Unimark.
