Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease tothe extent that it does not exceed the previous revaluation surplus, and any excess is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.
Exceptional items The Group presents adjusted earnings by making adjustments for costs and profits which management believes to be exceptional in nature byvirtue of their size or incidence or have a distortive effect on current-year earnings.
Such items would include costs associated with business combinations, one-off gains and losses on disposal of businesses, assets, finance costs and similar items of a non-recurring nature together with reorganisation costs and similar charges and by adding back impairment of goodwill and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising on business combinations, net of any tax impact.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ fromthese estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The Groups Directors believe that, among others, the following accounting policies that involve Directors judgements and estimates arethemost critical to understanding and evaluating the Groups financial results.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies require Directors to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to chargebacks, product returns, rebates and price adjustments see Note 2 which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
If the ultimate net selling price cannot be reliably measured, revenue recognition is deferred until a reliable measurement can be made.
Deferred revenue is included inother current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet see Note 26.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED Accounts receivable and bad debts Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise.
Credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer, based on a number of qualitative and quantitative factors related to the credit worthiness of a particular customer.
The Group is exposed to a variety of customers ranging from government-backed agencies and large private wholesalers to privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying local economic risks vary across the Group.
Typical credit terms in the US range from 3090 days, in Europe 30120 days, and in MENA 180360 days.
Where appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise risk by the use of trade finance instruments such as letters of credit and insurance.
The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors including specific customer issues and industry, economic and political conditions.
Bad debts are written-off when identified.
Goodwill and intangible assets The critical areas of judgement in relation to goodwill and intangible assets are the useful economic lives of the product-related intangibles, the growth rates used in the impairment tests and the discount rates used to determine net present values.
Contingent liabilities The promotion, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated and the operations of market participants, such as Hikma, are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, including the FDA and the Department of Justice.
As a result, the Group is subject to certain ongoing investigations by governmental agencies as well as other various legal proceedings considered typical to its business relating to employment, product liability and commercial disputes.
Often this litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, and therefore the probability of a loss, if any, being incurred or an estimate of the amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain.
Consequently, it is often not practicable to make a reasonable estimate of the possible financial effect, if any, that could arise from the ultimate resolution of legal proceedings.
In such cases, where the Group believes that disclosure is required, information regarding the nature and facts of the case is disclosed.
For current matters see Note 35.
