Financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2015 financial calendar Global Depository Receipts The Company also has listed Global Depository Receipts GDRs 16 April 2014 final dividend ex-dividend date on the Nasdaq Dubai.
They are listed under EPIC HIK and ISIN 17 April 2014 final dividend record date US4312882081.
Further information on the Nasdaq Dubai, its trading 14 May Annual General Meeting systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC GDRs can 21 May 2014 final dividend paid to shareholders be found on the website, www.
19 August 2015 interim results and interim dividend announced American Depository Receipts ADRs 27 August 2015 interim dividend ex-dividend date Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC has an ADR programme for which BNY 28 August 2015 interim dividend record date Mellon acts as Depositary.
One ADR equates to 2 Hikma ordinary 25 September 2015 interim dividend paid to shareholders shares.
ADRs are traded as a Level 1 OTC programme under the Provisional dates symbol HKMPY.
Enquiries should be made to: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Shareholding enquiries PO Box 358516 Enquiries or information concerning existing shareholdings should be Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8516 directed to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, either: Tel: 1 201 680 6825 in writing to Shareholder Services, Capita Registrars, The Registry, Tel: 1 888 BNY ADRS toll-free within the US 34Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com by telephone from within the UK on 0870 162 3100: Shareholder fraud by telephone from outside the UK on 44 208 639 2157: or The Financial Conduct Authority has issued a number of warnings to shareholders regarding boiler room scams.
Over the last year through the website, www.
many companies have become aware that shareholders have Dividend payments Currency received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Unless you have brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what elected otherwise, you will receive your dividend in US Dollars.
often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK Shareholders can opt to receive the dividend in Pounds Sterling investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
The Registrar retains records of the dividend These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
currency for each shareholder and only changes them at the Shareholders are advised to be very cautious of unsolicited advice, shareholders request.
If you wish to change the currency in offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Company reports.
whichyou receive your dividend, please contact the Registrars.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Dividend payments Bank Transfer obtain the correct name of the person and organisations: Shareholders who currently receive their dividend by cheque can request a dividend mandate form from the Registrar and have their check they are authorised by the FCA by looking the firm dividend paid direct into their bank account on the same day as the uponwww.
uk register: dividend is paid.
The tax voucher is sent direct to the shareholders report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 registered address.
uk consumers scams: Dividend payments International Payment System if the caller persists, hang up.
If you are an overseas shareholder, the Registrar is now able to pay Details of the share-dealing facilities sponsored by the Company are dividends in several foreign currencies for an administrative charge included in Company mailings and are on the Company website.
of5.00, which is deducted from the payment.
Contact the Registrar The Companys website is www.
com and the registered for further information.
office is 13 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HW.
Website Press releases, the share price and other information on the Group are available on the Companys website, www.
Share listings London Stock Exchange The Companys ordinary shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
They are listed under EPIC HIK, SEDOL B0LCW08 GB and ISIN GB00B0LCW083.
Further information on this market, its trading systems and current trading in Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC shares can be found on the London Stock Exchange website, www.
