Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements: however, they may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendments Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets IAS 16 and IAS 41 amendments Property, plant and equipment and agriculture impact to be evaluated IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IAS 19 amendments Employee benefits IAS 27 amendments Investment Entities IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sales or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate Joint venture Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2010 2012 Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2011 2013 Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2012 2014 Cycle Except as noted above, the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is a company incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is given onpage 172.
Basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLCs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB and also in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union.
The presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC is the US Dollar as the majority of the Companys business isconducted in US Dollars.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis ofaccounting in preparing the financial statements see page 111.
