Home Retail Group 32 Annual Report 2014 Board of Directors and Operating Board John Coombe John Walden Richard Ashton Mike Darcey Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Ian Durant Cath Keers Jacqueline fide Rojas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Paul Loft Greg Ball Peter Connor Managing Director, Homebase Managing Director, Financial Information Systems Director Services Maria Thompson Julie Elder Gordon Bentley Commercial and Supply Chain Human Resources Director Company Secretary Director FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS PROFILES including Lexecon, Putnam Hayes & Bartlett and KPMG working across a wide range of John Coombe 69 industries, with particular focus on Chairman entertainment and telecommunications.
Mike John held a number of senior financial roles joined Home Retail Group in April 2010 and was within Charterhouse Group and Charter appointed Senior Independent Director in July Consolidated before joining Glaxo Holdings 2012. in 1986.
Appointed to the Board in 1992, he was ultimately Chief Financial Of cer of Ian Durant 55 GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring Non-Executive Director in 2005.
He joined the GUS board in 2005 and Ian is a former Finance Director of Liberty Terry Duddy 58 became the Senior Independent Director of International renamed Intu Properties and Chief Executive until 14 March 2014 Home Retail Group in October 2006 and is Chairman of Capital & Counties Properties, Terry began his career at Letraset and Chairman in July 2012.
He is a Non-Executive Chairman of Greggs and a Non-Executive joined Dixons Stores Group in 1984, holding Director of HSBC Holdings, Chairman of Hogg Director of Greene King.
In his earlier career he positions of Sales Director of Currys, Robinson Group and a former member of the worked for Hanson and Jardine Matheson and Product Marketing Director of Dixons Code Committee of the Panel of Takeovers was Finance Director of Hongkong Land, Dairy Stores Group and Managing Director of PC and Mergers and of the UK Accounting Farm International and Thistle Hotels and Chief World.
He joined GUS in 1998 as Chief Standards Board.
Finance Of cer of Sea Containers.
Ian joined Executive of the newly acquired Argos, the Home Retail Group Board in July 2011.
John Walden 54 becoming a GUS Director later that year.
Chief Executive Cath Keers 49 He was appointed Chief Executive of Argos John started his retail career in the US with Non-Executive Director Retail Group in 2000 and of Home Retail Peapod.
He joined Best Buy in 1999 as President Cath started her retail career with Thorn EMI Group in July 2006 and stepped down from of its internet and direct channels division and and, after marketing and business development this role and as a director on 14 March 2014. also served as Executive Vice President, Human roles at Sky TV, Avon and Next, joined the BT He is a Non-Executive Director of Capital and Leadership, and ultimately as Group in 1996, holding a number of commercial Hammerson.
Executive Vice President of its Customer Business roles, including Marketing Director of O2, Group.
John later moved to Sears where he led Chairman of Tesco Mobile and Customer marketing, merchandising and the internet, Director of O2.
She is a Non-Executive Director BOARD COMMITTEES catalogue and home services divisions.
He joined of Telefonica O2 Europe, the Royal Mail Group Audit Committee: Argos as Managing Director in February 2012 and and LV.
Cath joined the Home Retail Group Ian Durant Chairman, Mike Darcey, Cath Keers, was appointed Chief Executive of Home Retail Board in September 2011.
Jacqueline fide Rojas Group on 14 March 2014.
Jacqueline fide Rojas 51 Remuneration Committee: Richard Ashton 47 Non-Executive Director Cath Keers Chair, John Coombe, Mike Darcey, Finance Director Jacqueline has held business and technology Ian Durant, Jacqueline fide Rojas Richard started his career at leadership roles within major enterprise software , where he trained as businesses including McAfee, Novell, Business Nomination Committee: a chartered accountant, and joined GE in 1994, Objects and Informix.
Most recently she was the John Coombe Chairman, Mike Darcey, spending eight years in a variety of positions Vice President and General Manager of CA Ian Durant, Cath Keers, Jacqueline fide Rojas, including Chief Financial Of cer of GE Capital's United Kingdom & Ireland.
She sits on the board John Walden pan-European equipmentnancing business, of techUK and is a judge on the Women in assistant to GE Capital's Chief Financial Of cer Technology and EY Entrepreneur of the Year in the US and various finance roles in the UK.
Jacqueline is also a member of the He joined Argos Retail Group as Finance Director Prince's Trust Technology Leadership Group.
in 2001 and, in July 2006, became Finance Jacqueline joined the Home Retail Group Board Director of Home Retail Group.
Mike Darcey 48 Biographies of members of the Operating Non-Executive Director Board can be found on our corporate website Mike became Chief Executive Of cer of News UK homeretailgroup.
in 2013 following 15 years with BSkyB where he had been Chief Operating Of cer since 2006.
Prior to BSkyB Mike was an economic advisor with a number of consulting companies
