Home Retail Group 72 Annual Report 2014 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Notes m m Cash ows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 33 161.0 322.1 Tax paid 17.6 26.1 Net cash in ow from operating activities 143.4 296.0 Cash ows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 72.5 55.3 Purchase of other intangible assets 102.8 25.3 Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment 2.2 1.9 Loans granted to associates 6.8 Loans repaid by associates 3.5 Purchase of investments 4.8 Disposal of investments 21.7 Interest received 0.6 1.7 Net cash used in investing activities 147.3 88.6 Cash ows from nancing activities Purchase of shares for Employee Share Trust 37.4 Proceeds from disposal of shares held by Employee Share Trust 0.3 Dividends paid 12 23.9 8.0 Net cash used in nancing activities 61.0 8.0 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 64.9 199.4 Movement in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 21 396.0 194.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 2.3 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 64.9 199.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 21 331.0 396.0 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 73 Analysis of net cash debt At 1 March 2014 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Non-GAAP measures Notes m m Financing net cash: Cash and cash equivalents 21 331.0 396.0 Total nancing net cash 331.0 396.0 Operating net debt: Off balance sheet operating leases 2,046.2 2,361.7 Total operating net debt 2,046.2 2,361.7 Total net debt 1,715.2 1,965.7 The Group uses the term total net debt to highlight the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
The capitalised value of these leases is 2,046.2m 2013: 2,361.7m, based upon discounting the existing lease commitments at the Groups estimated long-term cost of borrowing of 5.0% 2013: 4.2%.
Home Retail Group 74 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Home Retail Group plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of Home Retail Group the Group, is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is a home and general merchandise retailer.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2014.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 1 March 2014 prior financial year 52 weeks to 2 March 2013.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
They also comply with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Group consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historic cost basis modi ed for the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment bene ts.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in note 3.
Unless otherwise stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company Home Retail Group plc, entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share of its interests in associates.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity whose operating and nancing policies are controlled by the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control was transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Home Retail Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has signi cant in uence but not control.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates is included on the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition pro ts or losses is recognised in its income statement.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying value of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Business combinations Under the requirements of IFRS 3 revised, all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of business acquisitions is the aggregate of fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the acquirer.
The cost of a business combination is allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised if they meet the fide nition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identi able net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 75 Changes in accounting standards In June 2011, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued amendments to International Accounting Standard IAS 19 Employee Bene ts IAS 19 revised.
The revised standard is effective for the first time during the 52 weeks to 1 March 2014 and is required to be applied retrospectively.
The impact on the Groups post-employment bene ts is to replace the interest expense on post-employment bene t obligations and the expected return on plan assets with a single net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net post-employment bene t surplus or fide cit: currently a net fide cit for the Group.
In addition, the administration costs of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme, previously charged against the expected return on plan assets, are now charged within operating costs.
Prior year comparatives have been restated, and the impact of these restatements is set out in note 37.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial gains and losses immediately, there has been no change to the Groups net assets as a result of the adoption of IAS 19 revised, so no restatement of the balance sheet is required.
The adjustments to the income statement resulting from adoption of IAS 19 revised relate only to items previously excluded from the Groups reported benchmark pro t before tax, so the adoption of IAS 19 revised has had no impact on reported benchmark pro t before tax.
The Group has also adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued by the IASB in May 2011, and the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, issued in June 2011.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
The application of IFRS 13 has not impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
IFRS 13 requires speci c disclosures on fair values.
The Group provides these disclosures in note 4.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has applied the new fair value measurement guidance prospectively and has not provided any comparative information for new disclosures.
In accordance with the amendment to IAS 1 the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is now required to group together those items that may subsequently be reclassi ed to pro t and loss, and those that will not.
This change is presentational only, and has had no impact on previously reported amounts.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations which are effective for the first time during the year ended 1 March 2014 that have a material impact on the Group.
At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is being issued in phases by the IASB.
Until IFRS 9 is nalised, its full requirements remain uncertain, so it is not currently possible to assess the impact of its adoption on the Groups financial statements.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements, will, by fide nition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and future periods where appropriate.
The estimates and assumptions that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax bene t through the future taxable pro ts is probable.
Post-employment bene ts The present value of the fide ned bene t obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The main assumption used in determining the fide ned bene t obligations and net pension costs is the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact the amounts disclosed in the Groups balance sheet and income statement.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to determine the present value of estimated future cash out ows expected to be required to settle the fide ned bene t obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for fide ned bene t obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant year-ends and additional information is disclosed in note 25.
Home Retail Group 76 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Impairment of goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs at the level of each business segment.
The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any impairment loss on an annual basis, based on the recoverable amount, being the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The value-in-use calculations require the use of estimates in relation to future cash ows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 14.
Actual outcomes could vary from these estimates.
Impairment of assets Assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
If such an indicator exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
In the case of store assets, a CGU may represent a single store or a group of stores.
Assets or CGUs are written down to their recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the expected cash ows from the asset at an appropriate discount rate for the risks associated with that asset.
This includes the expected future cash ows based on managements assumptions and estimates of the future performance of the asset and an appropriate discount rate.
Differences between expectations and the actual cash ows will result in differences in the level of impairment required.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a signi cant change in the underlying assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount, however not to an amount higher than the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of amortisation or depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised in prior years.
Impairment of trade receivables A trade receivable is impaired when there is objective evidence that events since the receivable was established have affected the expected cash ows from the receivable.
The Groups impairment provision against trade receivables is established on a portfolio basis, taking into account the level of arrears, past loss experience and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The future credit quality of the trade receivable portfolio is subject to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially from the reported impairment provision against trade receivables.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably the unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends.
Provisions Provisions have been estimated for property including onerous leases, insurance, restructuring, customer redress in respect of financial services products and other liabilities.
These provisions represent the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such as trading conditions at a particular store, including expected costs or income associated with store closures, the incidence of insurance claims against the Group or the anticipated costs of related customer contact and redress.
Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which the revision is made.
Inventory provisions Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers in the future.
Net realisable value takes into account slow moving, obsolete and defective inventory.
Any difference between the expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted for in the period in which the sale is made.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and expected returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when the signi cant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods to be delivered is recognised when the customer receives delivery of the goods.
The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods being sold at a discount to the standard retail price.
Commissions receivable on the sale of services for which the Group acts as agent are included within revenue.
Interest income Interest income on customer store card accounts and loans is recognised as revenue using the effective interest method.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 77 Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial information is presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas Home Retail Group entities are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identi ed as the Board of Directors and Operating Board.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identi able net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, re ecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satis ed.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and how the asset will generate probable future economic bene t. The cost of other intangible assets with nite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, they are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Brands Acquired brands have a nite useful life and are initially recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently held at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated to spread the cost of the brands over their estimated useful lives of 10 years on a straight-line basis.
This amortisation method re ects the pattern in which the assets future economic bene ts are expected to be consumed.
Home Retail Group 78 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the speci c software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identi able and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic bene ts beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over 3 to 10 years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
The residual values and useful lives of assets are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost, being the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised where the carrying value of the asset or CGU to which the asset belongs exceeds its recoverable amount, being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
Value-in-use calculations are performed using cash ow projections discounted at a rate taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups businesses.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: leasehold premises are depreciated over the period of the lease: plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 2 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: land is not depreciated: and assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the balance sheet, with the cost of unrecoverable trade receivables recognised in the income statement immediately.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost bases in use within the Group are general retail goods valued on a standard cost or weighted average basis which approximates to actual cost.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Costs of inventory include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash ow hedges relating to their purchase.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classi ed as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost.
Corporation tax Corporation tax is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from pro t before tax as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Corporation tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, in which case it is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, respectively.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 79 Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not that an out ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an out ow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an out ow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that re ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks speci c to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provisions are made for property provisions, including onerous lease contracts for stores that have closed or where a decision to close has been announced, and for those stores where the projected future trading income is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Provisions for other costs and income on store closures are recognised where such an out ow or in ow is likely.
Provisions are made for potential customer redress in respect of financial services products to cover claims made by customers, including estimated redress payments, and speci c costs incurred in remediation.
Provisions are also made for legal claims, the estimated cost of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, restructuring costs and other liabilities.
Insurance Statutory classes of risk, such as employer liability and certain motor liability, are insured by the Groups captive insurer, Home Retail Group Guernsey LP.
The Group self-insures other risks and the liabilities associated with these risks are held elsewhere within the Group.
The Group accounts for all insurance costs as part of operating costs in these financial statements.
Insurance premiums in respect of insurance placed with third parties are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
Operating leases Leases in which a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the life of the lease.
Post-employment bene ts The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans is the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
The fide ned bene t obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected-unit credit method.
The present value of the fide ned bene t obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
For fide ned contribution pension plans the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these bene ts, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Home Retail Group 80 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 3.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Catalogue costs Costs incurred during the production of the Groups catalogues are deferred on the balance sheet net of any associated advertising revenue and marketing support until the catalogue is made available to the Group, at which point the net deferred cost is charged to the income statement.
Dividends Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year-end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the financial statements when they are paid.
Financial instruments The Group classi es its financial instruments in the following categories: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss, loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classi cation depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments were acquired.
Management determines the classi cation of its financial instruments at initial recognition.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classi ed in any of the other categories.
Availablefor-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The movements in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates derivatives as either cash ow hedges or fair value hedges.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash ows of hedged items.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Cash ow hedges The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash ow hedges is recognised in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would be recognised immediately in the income statement.
The hedged cash ow is expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement via inventory carrying value as applicable.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency exchange contracts hedging the Groups exposure to foreign currency liabilities is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
Fair value estimation The fair value of financial instruments traded in organised active financial markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments for which there is no quoted market price is determined by a variety of methods incorporating assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash ows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The nominal value less estimated credit adjustments of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash ows at the current market interest rate that is available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 81 Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revisits the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimate.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models, or closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Non-GAAP financial information Home Retail Group has identi ed certain measures that it believes will assist the understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not fide ned under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but Home Retail Group has included them as it considers them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identi ed by Home Retail Group: Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant income statement line.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of underlying performance of the Group.
Examples of items which may be recorded as exceptional items are restructuring costs and the pro ts and or losses on the disposal of businesses.
Benchmark measures The Group uses the following terms as measures which are not formally recognised under IFRS: Benchmark operating pro t is fide ned as operating pro t before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, post-employment bene t scheme administration costs, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and costs or income associated with store closures and exceptional items.
Benchmark pro t before tax benchmark PBT is fide ned as pro t before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, post-employment bene t scheme administration costs, store impairment and onerous lease charges or releases and costs or income associated with store closures, exceptional items, nancing fair value remeasurements, nancing impact on post-employment bene t obligations, the discount unwind on non-benchmark items and taxation.
Basic benchmark earnings per share benchmark EPS is fide ned as benchmark PBT less taxation attributable to benchmark PBT, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts net of vested but unexercised share awards.
These measures are considered useful in that they provide investors with an alternative means to evaluate the underlying performance of the Groups operations.
Total net debt The Group uses the term total net debt which is considered useful in that it highlights the Groups aggregate net indebtedness to banks and other financial institutions together with debt-like liabilities, notably operating leases.
Home Retail Group 82 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risk factors There are a number of financial risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group, being market risk foreign exchange and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identi es, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance, and the Groups mitigating activities, are set out in the principal risks and uncertainties section of the review of the business on pages 24 and 25.
The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, and to ensure suf cient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and pro tably.
Policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by the Board of Directors.
Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group is subject to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
To manage the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts, transacted with external banks.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts.
The key objective of the Groups foreign exchange transaction exposure management is to minimise potential volatility in pro ts which could arise as a result of exchange rate uctuations whilst maintaining an appropriate relative position versus the Groups retail peers.
To achieve the above objectives, the Group will initially seek to hedge up to 90% of any foreign exchange transaction risks expected to arise as a result of uncertain, but probable, foreign currency cash ows up to 14 months forward.
This subsequently increases to 100% as cash ows become certain.
Each subsidiary designates contracts as fair value hedges or cash ow hedges, as appropriate.
External foreign exchange contracts are designated as hedges of foreign exchange risk on speci c assets, liabilities or future transactions on a gross basis.
The cash ow hedges are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposure of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future and will be transferred to the consolidated income statement or inventory carrying value as applicable.
The Group has foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is not hedged.
If on 1 March 2014, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 3.0% 2013: approximately 3.3%, weaker stronger against the US dollar, with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t would have been 1.2m lower higher 2013: 1.0m lower higher mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains arising on retranslation of US dollar denominated balances in subsidiary companies with a sterling functional currency.
Equity would have been 11.1m higher lower 2013: 12.0m higher lower, arising mainly from the revaluation of US dollar forward currency contracts.
If on 1 March 2014, the last day of the financial year, sterling had been 5 cents, or approximately 4.1% 2013: approximately 4.3%, weaker stronger against the euro, with all other variables held constant, post-tax pro t would have been 0.1m lower higher 2013: 0.2m lower higher, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on retranslation of sterling denominated cash balances in subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Equity would have been 2.6m lower higher 2013: 2.5m lower higher, arising mainly from the revaluation of euro forward currency contracts net of foreign exchange gains or losses on retranslation of euro-denominated net assets held by subsidiary companies with a euro functional currency.
Market risk cash ow and fair value interest rate risk Whilst the Groups Financial Services business has gross instalment receivable balances on xed interest rates and oating rates, the Groups income and operating cash ows are still considered to be substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group currently holds a net cash position and has undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from the variance in market rate when deposits are made.
This risk is managed by combining overnight deposits with term deposits.
The principal objective of the Groups interest rate risk management is to manage the trade-off between obtaining the most bene cial effective rates of interest whilst minimising the impact of interest rate volatility on pro ts before tax.
The Group had no borrowings at any point during the year.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 83 Credit risk The Group has no signi cant concentrations of credit risk.
It has policies in place to ensure that sales of financial services products are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Customers are credit scored using an external credit agency.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash, via major debit and credit cards or via in-house or third party operated financial products.
The Groups exposure to credit risk with regard to treasury transactions is managed by dealing only with major banks and financial institutions.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Foreign exchange counterparty limits are set for each organisation on a scale based on credit rating and maturity period.
The Groups cash management policy, which was updated and approved by the Board of Directors during the year, requires: for a term deposit of up to 50m for up to 3 months a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of Aor better: for an additional 3 month term deposit of up to 50m a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of A, or a minimum long-term rating of A if the UK Government holds a minimum shareholding of 25%: for a term deposit of up to 50m for a period of up to 12 months, a bank must have a minimum long-term rating of A, or a minimum long-term rating of A if the UK Government holds a minimum shareholding of 25%: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 50m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of B: for instant access on demand accounts of up to 100m a bank must have a minimum short-term rating of A-1: and for a deposit of up to 100m in a money market fund, the fund must have a long-term rating of AAA.
Each deposit made by the Group during the year was compliant with the policy that was effective at the date the deposit was made.
Where a term deposit has been made and the counterparty ratings have subsequently reduced, each relevant position has been reviewed and any decision to maintain a position until the normal maturity date has been approved by the Board of Directors.
The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings as follows: Cash and term deposits Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term long-term rating at long-term rating at cash deposits transaction date 1 March 2014 Maturity date m AAA AAA n a 6.8 A A n a 250.0 AAn a 50.0 BB BB n a 24.2 331.0 Cash and Bank and institution Bank and institution short-term long-term rating at long-term rating at cash deposits transaction date 2 March 2013 Maturity date m AAA AAA n a 60.7 A A n a 100.0 A A n a 222.5 BB BB n a 12.8 396.0 Marked to market forward foreign exchange contracts 2014 2013 Bank and institution rating at year-end m m AA- 4.5 A 10.3 A 27.2 19.3 A- 8.4 BB 0.1 35.5 34.1 Home Retail Group 84 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 4.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Liquidity risk Home Retail Group manages its cash and committed borrowing facilities to maintain liquidity and funding exibility.
Liquidity is achieved through arranging funding ahead of requirements and maintaining suf cient undrawn committed facilities to meet short-term needs, and facilities are in place for this purpose.
At 2 March 2013, the Group had an undrawn committed borrowing facility available of 685m which had a contractual maturity date in July 2013.
This facility, which was unsecured, included a covenant related to adjusted benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent.
This facility was cancelled on 27 March 2013 prior to its contractual maturity date as a result of agreeing a new unsecured, committed borrowing facility of 165m that will expire in March 2016.
This new facility includes the covenant noted above and also includes a covenant related to net balance sheet debt.
The Group has not drawn down on either of the facilities and has been in compliance with the requirements of the covenants throughout the year.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
At 1 March 2014 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 639.9 639.9 At 2 March 2013 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 674.6 674.6 When a forward foreign exchange contract matures, this requires an out ow of the currency being sold and an in ow of the currency being bought.
The table below analyses the Groups out ow and in ow from derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
At 1 March 2014 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 307.2 197.1 214.0 87.0 805.3 in ow 290.6 185.5 208.1 85.6 769.8 At 2 March 2013 Less than 3 3-6 6-9 9-12 months months months months Total m m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts out ow 276.3 228.2 180.1 97.2 781.8 in ow 287.0 236.7 190.2 102.0 815.9 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal and ef cient capital structure.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group nances its operations through a combination of cash, property leases and borrowing facilities where necessary.
The Group has signi cant commitments through its obligations to pay rents under property leases.
The Group, in common with the credit rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities as debt when evaluating financial risk and investment returns.
In addition, the Groups Financial Services business holds a net loan book balance of 524m 2013: 475m as at 1 March 2014.
The Groups net debt varies throughout the year due to trading seasonality, and the position as at 1 March 2014 is set out in the analysis of net cash debt on page 73.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 85 Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 2014 2013 US dollar 1.58 1.58 1.67 1.50 Euro 1.18 1.23 1.21 1.15 Fair value estimation IFRS 13 requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following measurement hierarchy: Level 1 - quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 - inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 - inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 9.8 0.1 9.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.0 1.0 Total assets 9.8 1.0 0.1 10.9 Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts 36.5 36.5 Total liabilities 36.5 36.5 The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1 and comprise investments in quoted managed indexed funds.
As at 1 March 2014, these instruments, which are classi ed as available-for-sale financial assets, had a carrying value of 9.8m 2013: 20.7m.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity speci c estimates.
If all signi cant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
As at 1 March 2014, the fair value of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes was a net liability of 35.5m 2013: 34.1m net asset.
If one or more of the signi cant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
The available-for-sale financial asset within the level 3 hierarchy is measured at cost less impairment.
The impairment has been calculated to write down the asset to its recoverable value based on the actual financial position of the Groups associate.
The fair value measurement is therefore not sensitive to changes in inputs.
The movements in level 3 financial assets during the period are: m Balance at 2 March 2013 3.7 Disposals 3.5 Exchange differences 0.1 Balance at 1 March 2014 0.1 There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Home Retail Group 86 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Board of Directors and Operating Board review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports, which re ect the distinct retail brands and different risks associated with the different businesses.
The Group is organised into three main business segments: Argos, Homebase and Financial Services together with Central Activities.
The Board of Directors and Operating Board assess the performance of the operating segments based on a combination of revenue and benchmark operating pro t. Benchmark operating pro t is fide ned within note 3.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 m m Revenue Argos 4,051.1 3,931.3 Homebase 1,489.2 1,430.7 Financial Services 122.7 113.4 Central Activities Total revenue 5,663.0 5,475.4 Benchmark operating pro t Argos 112.3 100.3 Homebase 18.9 11.0 Financial Services 6.0 6.0 Central Activities 24.2 24.0 Total benchmark operating pro t 113.0 93.3 Benchmark net nancing income 2.4 3.8 Share of post-tax loss of associates 6.0 Benchmark pro t before tax 115.4 91.1 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.8 Post-employment bene t scheme administration costs 1.9 2.1 Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 2.1 14.6 Exceptional items 41.4 31.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 9.0 1.1 Financing impact on post-employment bene t obligations 3.3 4.0 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.9 7.1 Pro t before tax 71.2 120.9 Taxation 17.2 34.0 Pro t for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 54.0 86.9 2014 2013 m m Segment assets Argos 2,286.3 2,299.9 Homebase 896.6 896.3 Financial Services 563.0 500.9 Central Activities 75.5 103.1 Total segment assets 3,821.4 3,800.2 Tax assets 51.7 49.0 Cash and cash equivalents 331.0 396.0 Total assets per balance sheet 4,204.1 4,245.2 Segment assets include goodwill and other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in associates, inventories, trade and other receivables and other financial assets.
Tax assets and cash and cash equivalents are not allocated to segments.
Central Activities segment assets include nil 2013: 9.6m in respect of associates, including those associates reported within non-current assets classi ed as held for sale.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 87 2014 2013 m m Segment liabilities Argos 741.0 739.9 Homebase 517.7 520.9 Financial Services 67.2 41.8 Central Activities 109.4 86.7 Total segment liabilities 1,435.3 1,389.3 Tax liabilities 18.7 38.3 Post-employment bene t obligations 76.6 85.1 Total liabilities per balance sheet 1,530.6 1,512.7 Segment liabilities include trade and other payables, provisions and other financial liabilities.
Tax liabilities and post-employment bene t obligations are not allocated to segments.
52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 55.2 32.9 3.3 91.4 Reversal of impairment losses 16 3.0 3.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 27.6 7.8 0.5 2.2 38.1 Share-based payment expense 29 7.7 3.4 0.8 2.6 14.5 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 46.4 26.1 72.5 Additions to other intangible assets 15 80.3 21.8 0.3 0.4 102.8 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 Financial Central Argos Homebase Services Activities Total Other segment items Notes m m m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 54.2 34.4 3.3 91.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 25.2 4.9 0.5 2.2 32.8 Share-based payment expense 29 5.7 3.6 0.7 1.9 11.9 Additions to property, plant and equipment 16 42.0 12.8 0.1 0.4 55.3 Additions to other intangible assets 15 11.3 14.0 25.3 Geographical segments The Group trades predominantly in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and consequently the majority of revenues, capital expenditure and segment net assets arise there.
Home Retail Group 88 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 6.
ANALYSIS OF REVENUE BY CATEGORY 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 m m Sale of goods 5,540.3 5,362.0 Provision of services by Financial Services 122.7 113.4 Total 5,663.0 5,475.4 7.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 restated Before After Before After exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional items items items items items items Expenses by function m m m m m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling costs 1,349.8 1,349.8 1,330.8 1,330.8 Administrative costs 302.6 41.4 344.0 297.3 31.3 266.0 Total net operating expenses 1,652.4 41.4 1,693.8 1,628.1 31.3 1,596.8 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Notes m m Pro t before tax is stated after charging crediting: Operating lease rental expense 347.9 353.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense in cost of sales 3,778.9 3,624.5 Write down of inventories 117.7 118.8 Pro t loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 91.4 91.9 Reversal of impairment losses 16 3.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 15 38.1 32.8 Employee bene t costs 8 659.8 636.6 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Auditors remuneration m m Audit services: Fees payable for the audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.8 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 Other services: Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services services relating to taxation 0.1 all other services 0.2 Total fees payable to  LLP 1.0 1.1 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 89 8.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS AND EMPLOYEE NUMBERS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Employee costs Notes m m Wages and salaries 587.5 598.9 Social security costs 42.4 38.7 Other pension costs 25 15.4 12.9 Share-based payments 29 14.5 11.9 659.8 636.6 Other pension costs within employee costs includes a net credit of nil 2013: 33.0m in respect of the net exceptional gain arising on the closure of the Groups fide ned bene t pension scheme to future accrual.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 2 March 2013 Number of Full time Number of Full time Average number of employees employees equivalent employees equivalent Argos 29,040 14,458 29,271 14,302 Homebase 17,775 9,396 18,561 9,817 Financial Services 575 518 550 486 Central Activities 61 60 51 51 47,451 24,432 48,433 24,656 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Key management compensation m m Short-term employee bene ts 5.7 5.5 Post-employment bene ts 0.2 1.2 Share-based payments 3.2 2.4 9.1 9.1 Key management consists of the members of the Home Retail Group plc Board of Directors and the managing directors of both retail businesses.
Home Retail Group 90 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 9.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 m m Argos transformation and other restructuring charges 27.8 Customer redress Payment Protection Insurance 25.0 Warranty Insurance 11.4 Net gain on employee bene ts 31.3 Exceptional items in operating pro t 41.4 31.3 Tax on exceptional items in pro t before tax 9.4 7.5 Exceptional loss pro t after tax for the year 32.0 23.8 Exceptional charges totalling 27.8m were incurred during the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014, in respect of the ongoing project to transform Argos into a digital retail leader, combined with a number of other restructuring actions.
Financial Services offers Payment Protection Insurance to its customers.
In response to an industry wide review by the Financial Conduct Authority, a full investigation has been undertaken with the support of an independent expert, which will result in a customer redress exercise being carried out.
As a result, there has been an increase to the existing provision of 25.0m.
Until June 2010, Allianz Insurance provided Home Retail Group an underwriting service for warranty products sold in both Argos and Homebase.
Allianz Insurance has recently noti ed Home Retail Group that under a pro t share arrangement relating to the run off of these historical policies, the Group is due commission income of 11.4m.
The Home Retail Group fide ned bene t pension scheme closed to future accrual with effect from 31 January 2013.
This led to a net gain of 31.3m for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013, which included a non-cash curtailment gain of 37.4m, offset by costs of 6.1m related to closure of the scheme.
NET FINANCING INCOME EXPENSE 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 March 1 March 2013 2014 restated m m Finance income: Bank deposits 0.3 1.9 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange gains 6.8 1.2 Financing fair value remeasurements available-for-sale financial assets 3.4 Total finance income 10.5 3.1 Finance expense: Unwinding of discounts 8.1 8.3 Financing fair value remeasurements net exchange losses 1.2 2.3 Net finance expense on post-employment bene t obligations 3.3 4.0 Total finance expense 12.6 14.6 Less: finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.3 3.1 Total net finance expense 9.3 11.5 Net nancing income expense 1.2 8.4 Included within unwinding of discounts is a 6.9m charge 2013: 7.1m relating to the discount unwind on non-benchmark property provisions.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 91 11.
TAXATION 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 March 1 March 2013 2014 restated Analysis of charge in year m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 20.3 32.3 Double tax relief 1.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 12.8 7.4 Total current UK tax charge 7.5 23.7 Overseas tax 2.1 1.8 Total current tax charge 9.6 25.5 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.2 3.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 4.7 Rate change impact 0.2 0.1 Total tax charge in income statement 17.2 34.0 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Tax included in other comprehensive income m m Items that may be reclassi ed subsequently to pro t and loss: Cash ow hedges 13.8 6.8 Rate change impact 0.7 0.3 Other 0.4 13.1 6.1 Items that will not be reclassi ed subsequently to pro t and loss: Post-employment bene t obligations 5.6 2.1 Rate change impact 2.3 2.1 3.3 Total tax credit charge in other comprehensive income 16.4 6.1 Home Retail Group 92 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 11.
TAXATION CONTINUED Factors affecting the tax charge The effective tax rate for the year of 24.2% 2013: 28.1%, is higher than 2013: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.0% 2013: 24.0%.
This is analysed below: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 March 1 March 2013 2014 restated m m Pro t before tax 71.2 120.9 Pro t before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 16.4 29.0 Effects of: Benchmark: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 10.7 6.8 Differences in effective tax rates on overseas earnings 1.5 0.5 Tax charge credit on non-benchmark pro t items 6.9 5.6 Benchmark tax expense 32.5 29.7 Non-benchmark: Tax credit charge on exceptional items 9.4 7.5 Tax charge credit on non-benchmark items 2.5 0.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 8.2 2.7 Rate change impact 0.2 0.1 Total tax charge in income statement 17.2 34.0 Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be in uenced by the pro le of pro ts earned in the different tax jurisdictions within the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The income tax expense for the year is based on the UK statutory rate of corporation tax for the period of 23.0% 2013: 24.0%.
Overseas tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
The impact of the changes in statutory rates relates to the reduction of the UK corporation tax rate from 23.0% to 20.0% from 1 April 2015, this is the substantively enacted rate, which differs from the substantively enacted rate of 21% from 1 April 2014.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of the net deferred tax asset to re ect the enacted rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 93 12.
DIVIDENDS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders m m Final dividend of 2.0p per share 2013: nil for the prior year 16.0 Interim dividend of 1.0p per share 2013: 1.0p for the current year 7.9 8.0 Ordinary dividends on equity shares 23.9 8.0 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 1 March 2014 of 2.3p per share 2013: 2.0p, amounting to a total final dividend of 17.9m, has been proposed by the Board of Directors, and is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
This would make a total dividend for the year of 3.3p per share, amounting to 25.8m.
The final dividend of 2.3p per share will be paid on 23 July 2014 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 23 May 2014.
The Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST has waived its entitlement to dividends to the amount of 0.5m 2013: 0.1m.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in Home Retail Groups share trusts, net of vested but unexercised share awards.
Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potential dilutive ordinary shares.
52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 March 1 March 2013 2014 restated Earnings m m Pro t after tax for the financial year 54.0 86.9 Adjusted for: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.8 Post-employment bene t scheme administration costs 1.9 2.1 Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 2.1 14.6 Exceptional items 41.4 31.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 9.0 1.1 Financing impact on post-employment bene t obligations 3.3 4.0 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 6.9 7.1 Attributable taxation credit charge 6.9 7.1 Non-benchmark tax charge in respect of prior years 8.2 2.7 Tax rate change 0.2 0.1 Benchmark pro t after tax for the financial year 82.9 61.4 Weighted average number of shares millions millions Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 795.0 800.6 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 26.4 12.4 Number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 821.4 813.0 EPS pence pence Basic EPS 6.8 10.9 Diluted EPS 6.6 10.7 Basic benchmark EPS 10.4 7.7 Diluted benchmark EPS 10.1 7.6 Home Retail Group 94 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 14.
GOODWILL Central Argos Homebase Activities Total m m m m Cost At 3 March 2013 and 1 March 2014 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 3 March 2013 and 1 March 2014 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 1 March 2014 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Central Argos Homebase Activities Total m m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 and 2 March 2013 1,152.3 770.4 2.9 1,925.6 Accumulated impairment At 4 March 2012 and 2 March 2013 381.7 381.7 Net book value at 2 March 2013 and 3 March 2012 1,152.3 388.7 2.9 1,543.9 Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to three individual cash-generating units CGUs being the business segments of Argos and Homebase, and Habitat within Central Activities.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to Argos and Homebase is signi cant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill allocated to Habitat, which is immaterial, is based on some of the same key assumptions.
The recoverable amount of each of Argos and Homebase has been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on financial plans approved by management looking forward five years.
Benchmark operating pro ts for the current year, of 112.3m for Argos 2013: 100.3m and 18.9m for Homebase 2013: 11.0m, have been adjusted into the plan period.
The five-year projections for each business have been prepared with regard to the following key assumptions: sales growth, based on externally prepared projections which have been adjusted into the plan period for, among other things, the effect of sales initiatives and changes to the competitive landscape in which each business operates: gross margins, based on recent experience, which have been adjusted for factors such as the impact of changes to product costs, estimated future shipping rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as margin improvement initiatives, including sourcing bene ts and changes to product mix or range: and costs, based upon the existing cost base, expected levels of cost in ation and anticipated cost saving initiatives.
The cash ows for each business are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate beyond the five-year plan period, and are discounted to calculate the value-in-use.
The key assumptions used are: a long-term growth rate of 2.0% 2013: 2.0%, which has been used to extrapolate cash ows beyond the five-year plan period.
The growth rate is consistent with external forecasts and does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the UK: and a post-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2013: 8.5%, which equates to a pre-tax rate of approximately 10.6% 2013: 11.0%, has been estimated taking account of the speci c risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses and has been applied to the cash ow projections.
The results of the Groups impairment tests are dependent upon estimates and judgements made by management, particularly in relation to the key assumptions described above.
The values attributed to these key assumptions over the five-year plan period are: 2014 2013 Argos Homebase Argos Homebase Compound annual increase in sales 2.7% 4.9% 3.2% 4.1% Compound annual decrease in gross margin rate 0.2% 0.5% 0.3% 0.3% Compound annual increase in operating costs 0.2% 2.7% 0.4% 1.3% Long-term growth rate beyond five years 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Post-tax discount rate 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% 8.5% FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 95 At 1 March 2014, the excess in the estimated recoverable amount of each business segment, calculated on a value-in-use basis, over its carrying value was 1,298m 2013: 1,286m for Argos and 494m 2013: 420m for Homebase.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of the above assumptions used for assessing the recoverable amount of each business segment, with other variables held constant, and as a result, management has concluded that reasonably possible changes in the assumptions could cause the carrying value of each business segment to exceed its recoverable amount.
The amounts by which the above assumptions would need to change to cause the carrying value of each business segment to exceed its recoverable amount are: 2014 Argos Homebase Including Including mitigating mitigating In isolation actions In isolation actions Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales 1.9% 2.7% 1.1% 1.7% Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in gross margin rate 1.8% 2.2% 1.0% 1.3% Increase in the compound annual growth rate in operating costs 2.4% 2.4% 1.2% 1.2% 2013 Argos Homebase Including Including mitigating mitigating In isolation actions In isolation actions Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in sales 2.0% 2.9% 1.0% 1.6% Decrease in the compound annual growth rate in gross margin rate 1.9% 2.4% 1.0% 1.2% Increase in the compound annual growth rate in operating costs 2.2% 2.2% 1.1% 1.1% No sensitivities to the discount rate and growth assumptions have been disclosed as management believes that no reasonably possible change in these assumptions would generate a different outcome to the impairment tests as performed.
The mitigating actions included in the above analysis re ect the estimated impact of management actions expected to be taken in the event of these sensitivities arising.
Home Retail Group 96 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 15.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 3 March 2013 270.0 40.5 310.5 Additions 102.8 102.8 Disposals 4.0 4.0 At 1 March 2014 368.8 40.5 409.3 Accumulated amortisation At 3 March 2013 169.1 12.2 181.3 Charge for the year 34.1 4.0 38.1 Disposals 3.7 3.7 At 1 March 2014 199.5 16.2 215.7 Net book value at 1 March 2014 169.3 24.3 193.6 Assets in the course of construction included above at 1 March 2014 68.6 68.6 Computer software Brands Total m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 246.1 40.5 286.6 Additions 25.3 25.3 Disposals 1.4 1.4 At 2 March 2013 270.0 40.5 310.5 Accumulated amortisation At 4 March 2012 141.4 8.1 149.5 Charge for the year 28.7 4.1 32.8 Disposals 1.0 1.0 At 2 March 2013 169.1 12.2 181.3 Net book value at 2 March 2013 100.9 28.3 129.2 Net book value at 3 March 2012 104.7 32.4 137.1 Assets in the course of construction included above at 2 March 2013 14.0 14.0 Amortisation of 2.6m 2013: 2.9m is included in cost of sales in the income statement and 35.5m 2013: 29.9m in net operating expenses.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 97 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 3 March 2013 129.8 1.7 359.9 996.2 1,487.6 Exchange differences 1.0 3.0 4.0 Additions 3.6 68.9 72.5 Disposals 5.2 21.8 27.0 At 1 March 2014 129.8 1.7 357.3 1,040.3 1,529.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 3 March 2013 24.9 0.4 269.7 717.7 1,012.7 Exchange differences 0.9 2.5 3.4 Charge for the year 1.7 0.1 15.1 74.5 91.4 Reversal of impairment losses 0.1 1.6 1.3 3.0 Disposals 4.9 20.4 25.3 At 1 March 2014 26.5 0.5 277.4 768.0 1,072.4 Net book value at 1 March 2014 103.3 1.2 79.9 272.3 456.7 Assets in the course of construction included above at 1 March 2014 0.8 22.0 22.8 Leasehold properties Freehold Long Short Plant & properties leasehold leasehold equipment Total m m m m m Cost At 4 March 2012 129.8 1.7 350.7 978.3 1,460.5 Exchange differences 0.8 2.1 2.9 Additions 11.8 43.5 55.3 Disposals 3.4 27.7 31.1 At 2 March 2013 129.8 1.7 359.9 996.2 1,487.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 4 March 2012 23.2 0.4 256.1 664.5 944.2 Exchange differences 0.6 1.9 2.5 Charge for the year 1.7 15.0 75.2 91.9 Disposals 2.0 23.9 25.9 At 2 March 2013 24.9 0.4 269.7 717.7 1,012.7 Net book value at 2 March 2013 104.9 1.3 90.2 278.5 474.9 Net book value at 3 March 2012 106.6 1.3 94.6 313.8 516.3 Assets in the course of construction included above at 2 March 2013 0.3 12.8 13.1 Store assets are subject to impairment reviews whenever changes in events or circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
Store assets or CGU to which the assets belong are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations are the same as those detailed for the goodwill impairment model in note 14.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in stores performances over the last year, which increased the net present value of future cash ows.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the carrying value of store assets to materially exceed their recoverable amounts.
Home Retail Group 98 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 17.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 2014 2013 m m At 3 March 2013 8.3 Exchange differences 0.3 Additions 2.4 Share of net loss after tax 2.1 Other equity movements 0.7 Reclassi cation to non-current assets classi ed as held for sale 9.6 At 1 March 2014 The Group had the following investments in associates: a 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited which trades as home store more, a company incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, and which was reported as an associate.
On 8 March 2013, the Group sold its shareholding in Ogalas Limited and, as a result, the Groups interest in Ogalas Limited was reclassi ed to non-current assets held for sale in the Groups balance sheet as at 2 March 2013. a 49% holding in HH Retail Limited, a joint venture company with Haier Group to develop a multi-channel, general merchandise retail business in China, and which is reported as an associate.
The Groups share of the revenue of its associates for the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 is nil 2013: 14.7m and its share of the loss after tax is nil 2013: 6.0m loss.
At 1 March 2014, the Groups share of the net assets of its associates amounted to nil 2013: 5.9m, consisting of assets of nil 2013: 17.6m, which includes goodwill of nil 2013: 4.8m, and liabilities of nil 2013: 11.7m.
No liability has been recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of HH Retail Limited, but the Groups share of its accumulated losses has been taken initially against the carrying value of the investment, then subsequently against the carrying value of loans granted by the Group to HH Retail Limited, which are reported within other financial assets in note 18.
Therefore, the amount reported for the Groups investment in associates at the year-end is nil.
OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Other financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 0.9 32.1 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 0.1 4.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 9.9 24.4 Total other financial assets 1.0 9.9 36.9 24.4 Other financial liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 30.1 2.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value hedges 6.4 Total other financial liabilities 36.5 2.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts The forward foreign exchange contracts are intended to hedge the foreign currency exposures of future purchases of inventory.
The hedged cash ows are expected to occur up to 14 months into the future.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in shareholders equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at the year-end will be released within one year from the balance sheet date.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 1 March 2014 were 805.3m 2013: 781.8m.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
During the year, the Group disposal of available-for-sale financial assets totalling 15.5m 2013: nil.
In addition, impairment charges totalling nil 2013:3.9m had been taken against the Groups loans to associates following the decision to close HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 99 19.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Trade receivables: Instalment receivables 594.2 546.8 Other trade receivables 54.6 47.1 648.8 593.9 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 73.1 75.7 575.7 518.2 Other receivables 80.2 1.8 66.5 2.7 Prepayments and accrued income 56.2 52.1 712.1 1.8 636.8 2.7 The carrying values of current trade and other receivables are a reasonable approximation of their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Long-term receivables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
All receivables due after more than one year are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a broad customer base.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
As at 1 March 2014, trade receivables of 66.4m 2013: 65.1m were individually determined to be impaired.
The impaired receivables mainly relate to store card holder balances on customer accounts on which indications of possible default have been identi ed.
Provision for impairment of trade receivables is also made on a portfolio basis against trade receivables which are not individually determined to be impaired.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 2 March 2013 75.7 82.0 Charge for the year 23.6 21.0 Utilised 26.2 27.3 At 1 March 2014 73.1 75.7 As at 1 March 2014, trade receivables of 7.6m 2013: 10.0m were past due but not impaired.
These mainly relate to other trade receivable balances.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Less than 3 months 6.2 8.1 3 to 6 months 1.0 1.7 6 to 9 months 0.1 9 to 12 months 0.3 0.2 7.6 10.0 The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Home Retail Group 100 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 21.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2014 2013 m m Cash at bank and in hand 331.0 396.0 The effective interest rate during the year ended 1 March 2014 for cash and cash equivalents was 0.7% 2013: 0.7%.
The Group has provided letters of credit totalling 12.5m 2013: 12.5m to AIG Europe Limited previously named Chartis Insurance UK Limited as part of their re-insurance agreement.
These letters are secured by cash deposits.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 2014 2013 m m Investments in associates 9.6 At 2 March 2013, the Groups 33% shareholding in Ogalas Limited had been presented as held for sale following the Groups decision to sell its stake in the business.
The sale completed on 8 March 2013.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Non-current Current Non-current 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Trade payables 523.1 560.9 Social security costs and other taxes 69.5 61.7 Accruals and deferred income 405.9 47.4 379.8 52.6 Other payables 116.8 113.7 1,115.3 47.4 1,116.1 52.6 Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and the fair values are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
Long-term payables have been discounted where the time value of money is material.
PROVISIONS Customer Property Insurance Restructuring redress Other Total m m m m m m At 3 March 2013 150.9 41.5 11.8 12.3 1.3 217.8 Exchange differences 2.4 2.4 Charged to the income statement 36.3 5.1 0.7 25.0 2.5 69.6 Released to the income statement 35.4 2.0 0.3 37.7 Utilised during the year 5.9 6.5 2.7 3.6 0.8 19.5 Discount unwind 8.3 8.3 At 1 March 2014 151.8 38.1 9.5 33.7 3.0 236.1 Analysed as: 2014 2013 m m Current 46.1 38.3 Non-current 190.0 179.5 236.1 217.8 Property provisions principally comprise obligations on onerous leases together with other costs or income associated with store closures.
In respect of onerous leases, provision is made for onerous lease contracts on stores that have either closed, or where projected future trading income is insuf cient to cover the lower of exit cost or value-in-use.
Where the value-in-use calculation is lower, the provision is based on the present value of expected future cash ows relating to rents, rates and other property costs to the end of the lease terms net of expected trading or sublet income.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2020.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 101 Provision is made for the estimated costs of insurance claims incurred by the Group but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the costs of claims that have arisen but have not yet been reported to the Group.
The estimated cost of claims includes expenses to be incurred in settling claims.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised over the period to 2018.
The restructuring provision relates to a number of actions undertaken by the Group during the current and prior years.
Actions currently being undertaken by the Group include the ongoing project to transform Argos into a digital retail leader.
Actions announced during prior years, to improve the operational ef ciency of the Group and drive further cost productivity included the closure of one of the Groups distribution warehouses.
The majority of this provision is expected to be utilised within one year.
Financial Services offers Payment Protection Insurance PPI to its customers.
The customer redress provision comprises the estimated cost of making redress payments to customers in respect of past sales of PPI policies, including the related administrative expenses.
The eventual cost is dependent upon response rates, uphold rates, redress costs, claim handling costs and those costs associated with claims that are subsequently referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The provision represents managements best estimate of future costs and will remain under review.
Had management used different assumptions, a larger or smaller provision charge would have resulted.
The most signi cant assumption is the expected response rate to the customer contact exercise which has been estimated at 35%.
If the response rate is one percentage point higher lower than estimated then the provision at 1 March 2014 would have increased decreased by approximately 1m.
This provision is expected to be utilised within three years.
Opening balances have been reclassi ed to re ect the new categorisation of the provisions.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS During the year, the Group operated both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution schemes.
A fide ned bene t scheme is a pension scheme that fide fines an amount of pension bene t that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A fide ned contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which both the Group and employees pay contributions into an independently administered fund.
The fide ned bene t scheme is closed to future accrual.
The cost of providing the bene ts under the fide ned contribution schemes, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
Pension arrangements for UK employees were provided principally through a fide ned bene t scheme the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme, until it was closed to future accrual in the previous financial year, and a fide ned contribution scheme the Home Retail Group Personal Pension Plan, which continues to be operated.
In other countries, bene ts are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
fide ned bene t schemes The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme The scheme has rules which specify the bene ts to be paid and is nanced accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2012 by independent, quali ed actuaries, Towers Watson, using the projected unit method and resulted in a fide cit of 158m.
The next full actuarial valuation of the scheme will be carried out as at 31 March 2015.
The fide cit recovery plan agreed with the Trustee provides for payments of 22m per annum paid in quarterly instalments until 31 December 2019.
Unfunded fide ned bene t scheme The Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension bene t arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent Trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued bene ts secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 1 March 2014 was 9.8m 2013: 20.7m.
The Groups unfunded fide ned bene t arrangement closed to future accrual with effect from 30 April 2013.
The net curtailment impact of this closure is immaterial.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the directors remuneration report.
IAS 19 valuations The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial funding valuations and have been updated by Lane Clark & Peacock to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes at the year-end.
As required by IAS 19, the value of the fide ned bene t obligations at the year-end has been measured using the projected unit method.
The movements during the year in the net fide cit recognised in the balance sheet were as follows: Home Retail Group 102 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 25.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED 2013 2014 restated m m At 3 March 2013 85.1 115.3 Total net charge gain recognised in the consolidated income statement 5.2 16.8 Remeasurement of the net fide ned bene t liability recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 23.8 8.0 Contributions paid by the Group fide cit recovery 22.0 8.0 other 15.5 13.4 At 1 March 2014 76.6 85.1 The Home Retail Group Pension Scheme closed to future accrual with effect from 31 January 2013 which resulted in a net curtailment gain of 37.4m being recognised in the income statement for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013.
As a result of the closure, all previously active members of the scheme are now treated as deferred members.
The effect of the closure is that these members are no longer entitled to pension bene ts linked to future salary increases.
This amounted to a change in bene ts accruing to those members and resulted in a one-off reduction in the ultimate liabilities in respect of these individuals.
During the year, the Group has paid contributions totalling 37.5m 2013: 21.4m to the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme including 22.0m 2013: 8.0m as part of the fide cit recovery plan agreed with the scheme Trustee following the completion of the 31 March 2012 actuarial valuation.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid by the Group during the next financial year is 22m, all of which relates to the fide cit recovery plan.
The fide ned bene t obligations consist of a combination of both insured liabilities whereby the Trustee has entered an insurance contract with a regulated insurer, to take over the financial responsibility for meeting the cost of the pension promise made by the Group to those members covered by the premium and non-insured liabilities where the Group has responsibility for meeting the costs of the pension promise.
The risks associated with fide ned bene t funding for the insured liabilities have therefore been passed to the insurance company although the Group retains ultimate responsibility for the insured liabilities if the insurance company should fail.
Recognising this transfer of risk, the sensitivities described below relate to the non-insured fide ned bene t obligations only.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet are determined as follows: 2014 2013 m m Fair value of scheme assets 891.8 833.5 Present value of insured funded obligations 293.6 262.2 Present value of non-insured funded liabilities 664.2 635.8 fide cit in the funded scheme 66.0 64.5 Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 10.6 20.6 Post-employment bene ts recognised in the balance sheet 76.6 85.1 The weighted average duration to payment of the schemes expected non-insured cash ows is 27 years 2013: 27 years.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement were as follows: 2013 2014 restated m m Current service cost 14.5 Post-employment bene t scheme administration costs 1.9 2.1 Curtailment gain 37.4 Net finance expense on post-employment bene t obligations note 10 3.3 4.0 Total net charge gain recognised in the consolidated income statement 5.2 16.8 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 103 Contributions to the Groups fide ned contribution pension arrangements are in addition to those set out in this note and are charged directly to the income statement.
The net charge gain is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement: 2013 2014 restated m m Administrative costs before exceptional items 1.9 16.6 Administrative costs exceptional items 37.4 Net finance expense on post-employment bene t obligations note 10 3.3 4.0 Total net charge gain recognised in the consolidated income statement 5.2 16.8 The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations were as follows: 2014 2013 % % Rate of in ation 3.3 3.4 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.2 3.3 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.2 3.3 Discount rate 4.4 4.7 Life expectancy: at age 65 for a male currently aged 65 22.3 years 22.2 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 65 24.7 years 24.6 years at age 65 for a male currently aged 50 23.9 years 23.8 years at age 65 for a female currently aged 50 26.4 years 26.3 years The discount rate is based on market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and term to the fide ned bene t obligations.
The sensitivity of the fide ned bene t obligations to changes in the material assumptions is detailed below.
Changes in the insured fide ned obligations are matched by changes in the fair value of the insurance contract and therefore the sensitivities below relate to the non-insured fide ned bene t obligations only.
The impact of changing material assumptions is as follows: 2014 2013 Indicative Indicative effect on effect on non-insured noninsured Increase fide ned fide ned decrease in bene t bene t assumptions obligations obligations m m Rate of in ation 0.5% - 86 - 85 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 0.5% - 39 - 39 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 0.5% - 44 - 43 Discount rate 0.5% - 79 - 79 Life expectancy 1 year - 18 - 18 Following closure of the scheme to future accrual during the year ended 2 March 2013, the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations is no longer impacted by increases in salaries.
The calculations in this section have been carried out using the same method and data as the Groups pensions and accounting gures with each assumption adjusted as shown above.
Each assumption has been varied individually and a combination of changes in assumptions could produce a different result.
Home Retail Group 104 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 25.
POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The assets of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme are summarised as follows: 2014 2013 Fair value Fair value Percentage Fair value Fair value Percentage of quoted of unquoted of scheme of quoted of unquoted of scheme assets assets assets assets assets assets m m % m m % Insurance policy 293.6 33 262.2 32 Equities 233.3 26 226.7 27 1 Fund of hedge funds 95.7 11 85.2 10 2 Diversi ed growth fund 94.0 10 93.1 11 Property 41.7 38.7 9 35.6 26.7 8 Corporate bonds 46.1 5 45.8 5 Index linked government bonds 4.9 1 44.5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 19.3 2 13.7 2 Other 24.5 3 Fair value of scheme assets 439.3 452.5 100 459.4 374.1 100 1 The fund of hedge funds holds a portfolio of other hedge funds and is designed to achieve greater diversi cation of assets whilst maximising return and minimising risk to the scheme.
There are many different types of hedge fund, however they typically aim to produce absolute returns rather than relative returns, they use short as well as long-term investments and are typically traded more actively than traditional assets.
2 A diversi ed growth fund DGF invests in a broad range of asset classes and is designed to produce less volatile returns than equities, which, if achieved, should help pension schemes to better maintain their funding level in volatile markets.
DGFs generally aim to achieve positive return or a real return ahead of in ation, have a wide exposure to a range of asset classes and are a low governance solution to the problem of diversifying a schemes assets.
The DGF, Standard Life Global Absolute Return Strategies, aims to provide positive investment returns in all market conditions over the medium and long term and invests mainly in derivatives, xed income assets and equities.
Investment strategy Investment risk is managed by diversifying the assets across asset classes whose return patterns are not highly correlated.
The assets include an insurance contract which matches approximately one-third of the schemes pension bene ts and therefore helps to signi cantly reduce the Groups fide ned bene t pension risks.
Changes in the present value of the fide ned bene t liabilities are as follows: 2013 2014 restated m m Opening fide ned bene t liabilities 918.6 879.7 Current service cost 14.5 Curtailment gain 37.4 Finance expense 42.6 41.0 Contributions paid by employees 4.4 Remeasurements due to: Changes in financial assumptions 42.4 74.0 Changes in demographic assumptions 28.5 Experience on bene t liabilities 3.0 11.4 39.4 34.1 Bene ts paid 32.2 17.7 Closing fide ned bene t liabilities 968.4 918.6 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 105 Changes in the market value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2013 2014 restated m m Opening fair value of scheme assets 833.5 764.4 Finance income 39.3 37.0 Remeasurement of the assets recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 15.6 26.1 Post-employment bene t scheme administration costs 1.9 2.1 Contributions paid by the Group fide cit recovery 22.0 8.0 other 15.5 13.4 Contributions paid by employees 4.4 Bene ts paid 32.2 17.7 Closing fair value of scheme assets 891.8 833.5 The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 54.9m 2013: 63.1m.
Signi cant events during the period Following its closure to future accrual and in accordance with the terms of the members scheme offer letters, the Group offers members of the unfunded pension bene t arrangements a cash lump sum alternative to their unfunded bene t entitlement.
A number of scheme members elected to receive a cash alternative, which resulted in cash payments totalling 14.5m, and reduced the Groups exposure to these unfunded fide ned bene ts by approximately 50%.
The net impact of this was recognised within the actuarial loss in other comprehensive income during the period.
In November 2013, consistent with the Groups on-going risk management for fide ned bene t obligations, the Trustee of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme agreed an extension to their buy-in insurance policy to cover pensioners who have retired since the initial buy-in occurred in May 2011.
Under the terms of the policy the scheme paid 40m to the insurance company and will in return receive annuity payments equal to the monthly pensions for this group of pensioners.
This eliminates the schemes exposure to the investment, in ation and mortality risks associated with these pensioner members.
The buy-in had no impact on the reported pro ts of the Group for the year to 1 March 2014, or the liabilities of the scheme as calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
As this asset was less than the cash cost of the buy-in, the transaction reduced the reported assets of the scheme by approximately 7m.
Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks in relation to its fide ned bene t scheme, the most signi cant of which are detailed below: Investment strategy Changes in asset values are not matched by changes in the non-insured schemes defined benefit obligations.
For example, if equity values fall with no changes in corporate bond yields, the net deficit on the scheme would increase.
Investment returns Future investment returns are lower than anticipated and so additional contributions are required from the Group to pay all the non-insured benefits promised.
Improvements in life Scheme members live longer and so benefits are payable for longer than anticipated.
expectancy Inflation Actual inflation is higher and so benefit payments are higher than anticipated.
Regulatory In future the Scheme may have backdated claims or liabilities arising from future legislation, emerging practice or court judgements.
fide ned contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to the fide ned contribution schemes and amounted to 15.4m 2013: 10.0m.
Contributions totalling 1.5m 2013: 1.4m were payable to the schemes at 1 March 2014 and are included within trade and other payables.
Home Retail Group 106 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 26.
DEFERRED TAX 2013 2014 restated m m The movements on the net deferred tax account are as follows: At 3 March 2013 14.1 28.7 Income statement charge note 11 7.8 8.6 Rate change impact note 11 0.2 0.1 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income and equity 21.9 6.1 At 1 March 2014 28.4 14.1 The deferred tax amounts recognised are as follows: Deferred tax assets: Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year 41.3 40.7 Deferred tax liabilities: Deferred tax liability to be settled after more than one year 12.9 26.6 Net deferred tax assets 28.4 14.1 Closing deferred tax has been calculated at the substantively enacted UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2013: 23%, which differs from the UK corporation tax rate applied to the current year adjusted pro ts at 23%.
The effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 20% is a reduction in the net deferred tax asset at the end of 2014 of 6.2m.
Of this 6.2m, 4.4m has been charged directly to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and a charge of 1.8m has been recognised in the income statement.
The substantively enacted reductions in the main rate of UK corporation tax are 2% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and a further 1% to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The impact of these rate reductions on the net deferred tax asset at the balance sheet date is a reduction of the net deferred tax asset by 1.5m, this movement is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group will assess the impact of the reduction in rate in line with its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each balance sheet date.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated PostAsset tax employment provisions depreciation bene t Other Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 3 March 2013 19.1 19.6 2.0 40.7 Income statement charge 3.2 7.4 2.2 12.8 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 5.5 3.3 8.8 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 6.4 6.4 Rate change impact 1.8 1.8 At 1 March 2014 19.6 15.5 6.2 41.3 Post Accelerated employment Asset tax bene t Total provisions depreciation restated Other restated Deferred tax assets m m m m m At 4 March 2012 16.0 1.9 29.8 2.9 50.6 Income statement credit charge 4.0 1.7 10.3 0.9 8.9 Tax credited charged to other comprehensive income 0.4 0.1 6.6 6.1 Transfer to deferred tax liabilities 6.8 6.8 Rate change impact 1.3 0.2 0.2 1.7 At 2 March 2013 19.1 19.6 2.0 40.7 Other deferred tax assets consist of 6.2m 2013: 2.0m in respect of other temporary differences.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 107 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 3 March 2013 12.0 7.9 6.7 26.6 Income statement credit charge 0.7 4.3 5.0 Tax credited to other comprehensive income 13.1 13.1 Transfer from deferred tax assets 6.4 6.4 Rate change impact 1.5 0.5 2.0 At 1 March 2014 9.8 3.1 12.9 Accelerated Property tax valuations depreciation Other Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m At 4 March 2012 14.3 7.6 21.9 Income statement credit charge 1.2 0.9 0.3 Transfer from deferred tax assets 6.8 6.8 Rate change impact 1.1 0.6 0.1 1.8 At 2 March 2013 12.0 7.9 6.7 26.6 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax bene t through the future taxable pro ts is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of 20m 2013: 25.1m in respect of capital losses, which total 99.9m 2013: 109.3m, that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available inde nitely.
SHARE CAPITAL 2014 2013 Number 2014 Number 2013 of shares m of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary share capital of 10p each 813,445,001 81.3 813,445,001 81.3 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve arose as a result of the share buy-back programme that was undertaken during the year ended 26 February 2011.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the demerger of the Group from GUS plc during 2006.
Other reserves Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 3 March 2013 23.1 22.1 32.9 31.9 Other comprehensive income 45.4 3.6 49.0 Net movement in own shares 35.2 35.2 Balance at 1 March 2014 58.3 23.3 29.3 52.3 Home Retail Group 108 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 28.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONTINUED Treasury Hedging Translation Total other shares reserve reserve reserves m m m m Balance at 4 March 2012 24.5 0.9 32.2 8.6 Other comprehensive income 21.2 0.7 21.9 Net movement in own shares 1.4 1.4 Balance at 2 March 2013 23.1 22.1 32.9 31.9 The net debit arising on the movement in own shares of 35.2m 2013: credit of 1.4m represents the purchase, and subsequent utilisation, of shares held for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
Shares in Home Retail Group plc are held in the following trusts: Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST The EST provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under share option and share grant schemes with the exception of the Share Incentive Plan.
The shares in the EST are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 55.8m 2013: 20.4m.
During the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014, 22.5m additional shares were purchased for a cost of 37.4m 2013: nil.
Dividends on these shares are waived.
Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust The Home Retail Group Share Incentive Scheme Trust provides for the issue of shares to Group employees under the Share Incentive Plan.
These shares are held within equity of the Group at a cost of 2.5m 2013: 2.7m.
No additional shares were purchased during the year 2013: nil.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation in respect of ordinary shares in the Company 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 m m Share option awards 2.0 3.2 Share grant awards 12.5 8.7 Total expense recognised all equity-settled 14.5 11.9 Summary of share option and share award arrangements During the year ended 1 March 2014, Home Retail Group plc had a number of share option and share award arrangements for its employees, all of which are equity-settled.
Details of these arrangements are as follows: Share options The Home Retail Group plc save-as-you-earn SAYE plan permits the grant to employees of options over the Companys shares linked to a building society save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of between 5 and 250 per month.
Options are normally capable of being exercised at the end of the three or five-year period at an exercise price calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding invitation to participants.
Options must be exercised within six months of the end of the three or five-year SAYE contract.
The Home Retail Group approved option plan.
Options are granted at an exercise price equal to the market price of the shares over the ten dealing days preceding grant.
For those options with a performance condition, the percentage of the options exercisable by participants is determined by ranking total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the values of options with this performance condition have been adjusted using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The 1998 approved and non-approved executive share option schemes.
Under these schemes, the exercise price of granted options was equal to the market price of the shares over the three dealing days preceding grant.
The options became exercisable three years from the grant date, subject to the Groups EPS compound annual growth exceeding compound annual retail price in ation by 4% per annum over a continuous three-year period and the employee completing three years service.
The EPS growth target is not a market-based performance condition as fide ned by IFRS 2.
The options have a maximum term of 10 years from grant.
No new options have been granted under these schemes since 2006 and all outstanding awards have vested.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 109 Share awards The performance share plan PSP.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of grant for nil consideration.
For all awards under this plan, vesting is conditional on participants continued service.
For those awards with performance conditions, the percentage of the award distributed to participants is determined either by ranking total shareholder return TSR relative to a comparator group or by reference to performance against other speci c targets, such as EPS growth, pro t or free cash ow.
The TSR target is considered a market-based performance condition under IFRS 2, and the awards with this performance condition have been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three-year period preceding valuation.
The other targets are non market-based performance conditions, and the awards with these performance conditions have been valued by reference to the share price at the date of grant.
The plan was amended in 2010 to add an HM Revenue & Customs approved option to the share awards at no additional cost.
The approved option is over the same number of shares as awarded under the normal PSP award, up to a maximum share value of 30,000.
The value of the award delivered under the approved share option is deducted from the PSP award, such that the two awards together give participants the same gross value as the normal PSP award only.
The deferred bonus plan permitted the award of a deferred bonus that was converted into a conditional award of shares and operated for the year ended 27 February 2010 only.
The award was based on performance against a benchmark PBT and a Group net cash target and was made at the maximum of 150% of salary in May 2010.
The grant date was the start of the financial year in which the performance stage was assessed, which was one year before the shares were awarded.
All awards have now vested, 1 6 on the first anniversary of the award, 2 6 on the second anniversary and 3 6 on the third anniversary.
The share incentive plan was a one-off free share grant to all employees at the time of the demerger.
The shares were acquired by a trust on behalf of participants and were normally forfeited if a participants employment with the Group ceased within three years of the grant date.
All awards under this plan vested after this initial three-year period in November 2009, at which point participants were able to withdraw their shares, and since November 2011 shares can be withdrawn free of tax.
The shares continue to be held by the trust until they are either withdrawn by participants or the awards lapse.
Information relating to share option valuation techniques The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year over the Companys shares under the Groups option plans, determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was 0.27 2013: 0.14 per option.
The signi cant inputs into the option pricing model were as follows: 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 1 March 2 March Weighted average: 2014 2013 Share price on grant date 1.55 0.86 Exercise price 1.26 0.59 Expected volatility 47.1% 46.2% Expected dividend yield 2.2% 5.5% Risk free interest rate 1.1% 1.0% Expected option life to exercise 3.4 years 3.5 years Expected volatility is a measure of expected uctuations in the share price over the expected life of an option.
The measure of volatility used by the Group in its pricing model during the year ended 1 March 2014 has been set after considering the historical volatility of the Groups share price returns and the average of the volatilities of share price returns for other similar companies.
Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 2 March 2013 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise price Number of exercise price options options Outstanding at beginning of year 43,139,007 0.90 14,656,289 2.26 Granted 5,323,904 1.26 38,322,492 0.59 Forfeited 4,466,656 0.89 8,257,324 1.57 Exercised 396,213 0.67 6,750 0.59 Expired 1,975,087 2.08 1,575,700 2.46 Outstanding at year-end 41,624,955 0.89 43,139,007 0.90 Exercisable at year-end 2,989,989 3.01 2,795,856 3.53 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the year was 1.83 2013: 1.23.
Home Retail Group 110 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 29.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Share options outstanding at the end of the year Share options at the end of the year had the following exercise prices and remaining contractual lives: As at 1 March 2014 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years Up to 0.99 32,349,334 0.59 2.0 2.6 1.00 1.99 6,398,647 1.35 2.4 3.1 2.00 2.99 512,233 2.00 1.1 1.6 3.00 3.99 2,364,741 3.59 1.2 As at 2 March 2013 Weighted Weighted average average remaining lives exercise Range of exercise prices Number of price Expected Contractual options years years Up to 0.99 36,144,602 0.59 3.0 3.5 1.00 1.99 2,922,978 1.76 1.3 2.0 2.00 2.99 1,366,766 2.01 1.2 1.7 3.00 3.99 2,704,661 3.60 2.2 Information relating to share award valuation techniques The value of the awards is determined as the observed market closing share price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the deferred bonus plan, this occurred after the first year of performance was assessed.
The performance share plans market-based performance condition is included in the fair value measurement on grant date and is not revised for actual performance.
All of the share awards are equity-settled.
Under the share awards, the participants have an entitlement to either dividend equivalents or dividend distributions from issue date until point of vesting.
The observed market share price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of future dividend distributions.
There were 16,033,999 ordinary share awards 2013: 23,408,568 granted during the year with a weighted average fair value of 1.29 2013: 0.51.
OPERATING LEASES 2014 2013 m m Future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Less than one year 332.6 342.6 Between one and five years 1,104.3 1,182.7 More than five years 1,190.2 1,436.5 Total operating leases 2,627.1 2,961.8 The Group leases various retail stores, of ces and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms and renewal rights.
COMMITMENTS 2014 2013 m m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 1.3 15.4 Intangible assets 13.3 1.0 Total commitments 14.6 16.4 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 111 32.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business, which if realised, are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 2 March 1 March 2013 2014 restated Cash generated from operations m m Pro t before tax 71.2 120.9 Adjustments for: Share of post-tax loss of associates 6.0 Net nancing income expense 1.2 8.4 Operating pro t 70.0 135.3 Pro t loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Depreciation and amortisation 129.5 124.7 Reversal of impairment losses 3.0 Finance expense charged to Financial Services cost of sales 3.3 3.1 Decrease increase in inventories 39.4 8.6 Increase in receivables 74.6 40.9 Increase in payables 5.5 163.4 Movement in working capital 29.7 113.9 Increase decrease in provisions 12.4 24.5 Movement in post-employment bene t obligations 35.6 42.2 Share-based payment expense net of dividend equivalent payments 14.3 11.6 Cash generated from operations 161.0 322.1 34.
RELATED PARTIES The ultimate parent company of the Group is Home Retail Group plc.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings at 1 March 2014 are shown in note 36.
Transactions between Home Retail Group plc and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below: Associates During the year, the Group granted loans totalling nil 2013: 6.8m to its associates, received 3.5m 2013: nil by way of loan repayment from its associates and invested nil 2013: 2.4m in the share capital of its associates.
At 1 March 2014, the amounts owed by its associates to the Group totalled 0.1m 2013: 3.7m, net of accumulated impairment losses totalling 3.9m 2013: 3.9m following the decision to close HH Retail Limited, the Groups associate in China.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
During the year, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS On 11 April 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to partner with Fujitsu to provide Information Systems infrastructure and services that support the Groups operations.
Costs of approximately 12m, associated with transitioning these services to Fujitsu, are expected to be incurred in the year ending 28 February 2015.
This charge will be taken as an exceptional item, outside of benchmark operating pro t. Home Retail Group 112 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 36.
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS Country of Percentage of Description incorporation ordinary shares held Home Retail Group UK Limited Group holding company England 100 Argos Limited General merchandise retailing England 100 Argos Distributors Ireland Limited General merchandise retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Homebase Limited Home enhancement retailing England 100 Homebase House and Garden Centre Limited Home enhancement retailing Republic of Ireland 100 Hampden Group Limited Home enhancement retailing Northern Ireland 100 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited Financial services England 100 ARG Personal Loans Limited Financial services England 100 Argos Business Solutions Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited Financial services England 100 Home Retail Group Hong Kong Limited Product sourcing for the Hong Kong 100 Home Retail Group companies Held directly by the Parent Company A full list of subsidiaries and associates at 1 March 2014 will be annexed to the Companys Annual Return.
Details of interests in associated undertakings are given within note 17.
RESTATEMENT OF PRIOR PERIOD INFORMATION The Group has adopted IAS 19 revised during the period.
The impact on the Groups post-employment bene ts is to replace the interest expense on post-employment bene t obligations and the expected return on plan assets with a single net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net post-employment bene t surplus or fide cit.
Prior year comparatives have been restated as follows: Impact on income statement 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 As previously Prior period reported adjustment As Restated m m m Operating pro t 137.4 2.1 135.3 Finance income 47.2 44.1 3.1 Finance expense 48.5 37.0 11.5 Net nancing expense 1.3 7.1 8.4 Share of post-tax loss of associates 6.0 6.0 Pro t before tax 130.1 9.2 120.9 Taxation 36.1 2.1 34.0 Pro t for the period 94.0 7.1 86.9 Impact on earnings per share pence pence pence Basic 11.7 0.8 10.9 Diluted 11.6 0.9 10.7 FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 113 Impact on non-GAAP measures Reconciliation of pro t before tax PBT to benchmark PBT 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 As previously Prior period reported adjustment As Restated m m m Pro t before tax 130.1 9.2 120.9 Adjusted for: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 1.8 1.8 Post-employment bene t scheme administration costs 2.1 2.1 Adjustments in respect of store impairment and property provisions 14.6 14.6 Exceptional items 31.3 31.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 1.1 1.1 Financing impact on post-employment bene t obligations 3.1 7.1 4.0 Discount unwind on non-benchmark items 7.1 7.1 Benchmark PBT 91.1 91.1 Impact on benchmark earnings per share pence pence pence Basic 7.7 7.7 Diluted 7.6 7.6 Impact on consolidated statement of comprehensive income 52 weeks to 2 March 2013 As previously Prior period reported adjustment As Restated m m m Pro t for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 94.0 7.1 86.9 Other comprehensive income: Net change in fair value of cash ow hedges Foreign currency forward exchange contracts 33.4 33.4 Net change in fair value of cash ow hedges transferred to inventory Foreign currency forward exchange contracts 5.3 5.3 Remeasurement of the net fide ned bene t liability 17.2 9.2 8.0 Fair value movements on available-for-sale financial assets 2.0 2.0 Currency translation differences 0.6 0.6 Tax charge in respect of items taken directly to equity 4.0 2.1 6.1 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 9.5 7.1 16.6 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company 103.5 103.5 Home Retail Group 114 Annual Report 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Home Retail Group plc Parent Report on the Parent Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements, fide ned below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 1 March 2014 and of its cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Parent Company financial statements the financial statements, which are prepared by Home Retail Group plc, comprise: the Parent Company balance sheet as at 1 March 2014: the Parent Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Parent Company statement of cash ows for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of signi cant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identi ed as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 115 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made.
Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Home Retail Group plc for the year ended 1 March 2014.
Neil Grimes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 30 April 2014 Home Retail Group 116 Annual Report 2014 Parent Company balance sheet At 1 March 2014 1 March 2 March 2014 2013 Notes m m ASSETS Non-current assets Investment in subsidiary 6 2,895.6 2,895.6 Total non-current assets 2,895.6 2,895.6 Current assets Trade and other receivables 7 23.9 7.5 Total current assets 23.9 7.5 Total assets 2,919.5 2,903.1 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Trade and other payables 8 811.0 764.1 Total current liabilities 811.0 764.1 Total liabilities 811.0 764.1 Net assets 2,108.5 2,139.0 EQUITY Share capital 9 81.3 81.3 Capital redemption reserve 6.4 6.4 Retained earnings 2,020.8 2,051.3 Total equity 2,108.5 2,139.0 The financial statements on pages 116 to 120 were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 April 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: John Walden, Richard Ashton, Chief Executive Finance Director FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 117 Parent Company statement of changes in equity For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share redemption Retained capital reserve earnings Total Notes m m m m Balance at 3 March 2013 81.3 6.4 2,051.3 2,139.0 Loss for the year 4 20.9 20.9 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year ended 1 March 2014 20.9 20.9 Transactions with owners: Movement in share-based compensation reserve 3 14.5 14.5 Equity dividends paid during the year 5 23.9 23.9 Other distributions 0.2 0.2 Total transactions with owners 9.6 9.6 Balance at 1 March 2014 81.3 6.4 2,020.8 2,108.5 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Share redemption Retained capital reserve earnings Total Notes m m m m Balance at 4 March 2012 81.3 6.4 2,054.3 2,142.0 Loss for the year 4 6.6 6.6 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year ended 2 March 2013 6.6 6.6 Transactions with owners: Movement in share-based compensation reserve 3 11.9 11.9 Equity dividends paid during the year 5 8.0 8.0 Other distributions 0.3 0.3 Total transactions with owners 3.6 3.6 Balance at 2 March 2013 81.3 6.4 2,051.3 2,139.0 Parent Company statement of cash flows For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 There were no cash movements during the year for the Company as any cash transactions were executed by other members of the Home Retail Group on behalf of the Company.
As a result no statement of cash ows has been presented in these financial statements.
Home Retail Group 118 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Home Retail Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 the Act and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered number is 5863533 and the registered of ce of the Company is Avebury, 489 499 Avebury Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2NW.
Statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Interpretations IFRICs as adopted by the European Union.
BASIS OF PREPARATION These separate financial statements of the Company are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
They are prepared on a going concern basis and under the historic cost basis modi ed for the revaluation of certain financial instruments and share-based payments.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of Home Retail Group the Group.
The Companys financial statements are included in Home Retail Group plcs consolidated financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014.
As permitted by section 408 of the Act, the Company has not presented its own income statement or statement of comprehensive income.
The investment in Home Retail Group UK Limited has also been recorded at the nominal value of shares issued, under the provisions of section 615 of the Act.
SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Companys principal accounting policies are the same as those set out in note 3 of the Group financial statements, with the addition of those noted below.
Investments Investments are included in the balance sheet at their cost of acquisition.
Where appropriate, a provision is made for any impairment in their value.
Loans and other payables Loans from other Group undertakings and all other payables are initially recorded at fair value, which represents the proceeds received.
They are then subsequently carried at amortised cost, less any provision for impairment as appropriate.
Share-based payments The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
Awards are granted to employees of the Companys subsidiaries, and the Company is reimbursed by its subsidiaries for the fair value of the shares granted over the vesting period.
Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revisited for actual performance.
Further details of the Companys share-based compensation plans are set out in note 29 to the Group financial statements.
INCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES The Companys retained loss for the financial year was 20.9m 2013: 6.6m.
The Company had no employees in either year, other than the Company directors.
No directors received any remuneration from the Company during either year.
Further information on directors remuneration, which forms part of the audited Group financial statements, can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 59.
There were no non-audit services provided by the Companys auditors  LLP.
FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 119 5.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY 2014 2013 m m Cost At beginning and end of the year 2,895.6 2,895.6 The Companys sole investment is in Home Retail Group UK Limited, which is a 100% owned subsidiary incorporated within the UK and is a Group holding company.
Details of indirectly held subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in note 36 of the Group financial statements.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Current Current 2014 2013 m m Amount owed by related party note 11 23.9 7.5 The amount owed by a related party is unsecured, repayable on demand and non-interest bearing.
No balance owed by a related party is past due.
The amount owed by a related party of 23.9m 2013: 7.5m is due from the Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST.
The Company advances funds to the EST by way of a loan, in order that the EST may acquire shares for the purpose of satisfying obligations arising from the Groups share-based compensation schemes.
As the shares acquired by the EST are utilised to satisfy these obligations, at times for nil cash consideration, the EST will be unable to repay the loan in full.
It is therefore disclosed net of a provision for impairment of 50.4m 2013: 29.5m.
Movements in the provision for impairment are as follows: m At 2 March 2013 29.5 Charge for the year 20.9 At 1 March 2014 50.4 Home Retail Group 120 Annual Report 2014 Notes to the Parent Company financial statements continued For the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014 8.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Current Current 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed to Group companies note 11 810.4 763.5 Other payables 0.6 0.6 811.0 764.1 All amounts owed to Group companies are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The fair values of trade and other payables balances are not considered to differ materially from the recognised book values.
SHARE CAPITAL 2014 2013 Number 2014 Number 2013 of shares m of shares m Allotted, called-up and fully paid Ordinary share capital of 10p each 813,445,001 81.3 813,445,001 81.3 10.
COMMITMENTS On 27 March 2013, Home Retail Group UK Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a new unsecured three-year multi-currency revolving credit facility of 165m with a syndicate of banks.
On the same day, the Groups previous 685m facility was cancelled.
The Company is a borrower and a guarantor to this new facility.
No drawings were made under the above facility during the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2014.
There are no capital or operating lease commitments.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are shown in note 36 of the Group financial statements.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and the Home Retail Group Employee Share Trust EST are shown below.
All transactions carried out with related parties are in the normal course of business.
2014 2013 m m Transactions with subsidiary undertakings Recharge of costs 14.5 11.9 Transfer of cash to the EST by subsidiary undertakings on behalf of the Company 37.4 Settlement of liabilities by subsidiary undertakings on behalf of the Company 24.1 8.3 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 810.4 763.5 Transactions with other related parties Amount owed by other related party EST note 7 23.9 7.5
