Governance Remuneration report Departure of Jonathan King Audited As announced on 23 October 2013, Jonathan King stood down from the HomeServe Membership Board on 31 December 2013 and the HomeServe plc Board on 31 March 2014.
He will remain an employee of the company for the duration of his notice period i. e. for the 12 months to 22 October 2014 providing services and expertise as required.
He will continue to be paid salary and benefits until the cessation of his employment.
However, he will not be eligible for a bonus for FY15 and will be granted no further awards under the LTIP.
In respect of his pension, Jonathan King opted out of the Water Companies Pension Scheme on 31 March 2014 to seek protection for his lifetime allowance but he will be paid the top up cash allowance of 20% for earnings over the notional earnings cap.
He will be treated as a good leaver under the LTIP rules in relation to his outstanding awards and these will continue to vest on the normal vesting date subject to performance.
The number of shares in respect of each award will be pro-rated for time.
Application of the remuneration policy for FY15 Basic salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
Salary levels are determined taking into account pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Company and market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies in the FTSE 250.
Martin Bennett became the UK CEO on 1 January 2014 and it was agreed that his basic salary be increased by 6.6% to 400,000 to acknowledge his change of role and, in particular, the important role he will play in continuing the strengthening and re-focusing of the UK business.
As reported last year, salaries will now normally be reviewed in July each year unless responsibilities change.
As Martin Bennetts salary was increased in the year, he will not receive an increase in July.
Johnathan Ford joined the Group eighteen months ago and having reviewed his performance and contribution over that period, his salary will be increased by 15%.
This reflects the market median for the role.
Richard Harpins salary will increase by 3% reflecting the general increase being given to HomeServe employees in the UK.
