Governance Remuneration report Shareholding guidelines It is the Boards policy that Executive Directors and certain members of the Companys senior management build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Executive Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to their annual basic salary.
If the holding guideline has not been fulfilled at the point of exercise of any option or the vesting of any other long-term incentive award, the Director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement is achieved.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Executive Directors are provided later in this report.
How employees pay is taken into account The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
Our ability to meet our growth expectations and compete effectively is dependent on the skills, experience and performance of all of our employees.
Our employment policies, remuneration and benefit packages for employees are regularly reviewed.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management team compared to other employees reflecting their differing responsibilities, with the principal difference being the increased emphasis on performance related pay for the more senior executives within the organisation.
However, there are many common themes.
For example, the structure of the annual bonus, with the focus on customer, commercial and personal performance is the same for employees at management grade and above albeit with a higher weighting on personal performance at less senior grades.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and facilitated through extending participation in the LTIP to other senior leaders within the business and all UK based employees are able to participate in the Save as You Earn Scheme subject to meeting the minimum service requirement.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on directors pay, the Committee does take into consideration the pay and employment conditions of all employees when setting the policy for directors remuneration.
In terms of comparison metrics, the Committee takes into account the average level of salary increase being budgeted for the UK workforce when reviewing the salary levels of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is also mindful of any changes to the pay and benefit conditions for employees more generally when considering the policy for directors pay.
How shareholders views are taken into account The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received regarding the directors remuneration report annually and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
These views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy.
The Committee consults with shareholders when considering changes to remuneration arrangements and has done so on a number of occasions in recent years.
