Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements External auditor The Committee is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process, for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
The Committee is also responsible for developing and implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee has agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
The Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor annually.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2002, although the lead audit partner rotates every five years.
During the year the external auditor presented its transparency report to the Committee, which is intended to demonstrate the steps it takes to ensure audit quality with reference to the Audit Quality Framework issued by the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee also considered whether the auditors understanding of the Groups business and its understanding of the sectors in which the Group operates, including the regulatory landscape, was appropriate to the Groups needs.
It also assessed the performance of the audit, the auditors conduct of its relationship with the Group and the requirements of the Groups financial control process.
On this basis, the Committee concluded that the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP should be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has noted the findings of the Competition Commission into the audit market, which will require all FTSE-350 companies to put their audit out to tender every ten years and, where auditors have been in office since before 2005, to conduct a tender no later than two years after the end of the current lead partners five year term.
Based on the expected date that these rules will be effective, this would mean that the Group would be required to put its audit out to tender by 2021.
A recommended course of action will be proposed to the Board in due course.
The Committee has not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
