Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2014 1.
General information HomeServe plc is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is Cable Drive, Walsall, WS2 7BN.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as explained in note 39 below.
Adoption of new or revised standards and accounting policies The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year: Amendments to IFRS1 Government Loans Amendments to IFRS7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS11 Joint Arrangements IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement Amendments to IAS1 Presentation of Other Items of Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets IAS19 revised Employee Benefits IAS27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Improvements to IFRSs 2012 IAS1 amended has impacted the presentation of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, separating those items that cannot be subsequently classified to the profit and loss from those that may be subsequently classified.
IFRS13 has introduced certain additional disclosure requirements and these are set out in note 39.
All other accounting standards listed above have been adopted but their adoption has not had any material impact on the amounts reported in this consolidated set of financial statements.
