Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the Groups ordinary shares at a discount to the current market value through Save As You Earn schemes.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation models depending on the type of scheme.
Own shares reserve Shares of the parent Company that are purchased by the HomeServe plc Employee Benefit Trust are held at cost and shown as a deduction in equity.
Cost comprises consideration paid, including directly attributable costs.
The shares are held to satisfy obligations under the Groups equity settled share based payment schemes.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence and which the Directors consider should be disclosed separately to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Revenue recognition An appropriate proportion of revenue, sufficient to cover future costs and margin, is deferred to future periods when the Group has obligations extending to future periods.
As a result, judgement is required in assessing the extent and associated costs of fulfilling those future obligations.
The Group uses historical experience and forecast activity levels in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise in the current period and how much to defer to future periods.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 123 Financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2014 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Revenue recognition continued An assessment is also made of any factors that are likely to materially affect the economic benefits which will flow to the Group such as policy cancellations.
To the extent that economic benefits are not expected to flow to the Group, the value of that revenue is not recognised.
The Group uses historical experience in determining the appropriate amount of revenue to recognise.
Valuation of acquisition intangible assets Acquisitions may result in acquired access rights and acquired customer databases being recognised as intangible assets.
These are valued using the excess earnings method.
In applying this methodology certain key judgements and estimates are required to be made in respect of future cash flows together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash flows.
Impairment of goodwill and acquisition intangible assets The annual impairment assessment in respect of goodwill and acquisition intangibles requires estimates of the value in use or fair value less costs to sell of cash-generating units to which goodwill and acquisition intangibles have been allocated.
As a result, estimates of future cash flows are required, together with an appropriate discount factor for the purpose of determining the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill is 246.3m 2013: 248.4m.
The carrying value of acquisition intangibles is 87.3m 2013: 103.3m.
Following the annual impairment review, no impairment charge has been recorded against goodwill or acquisition intangibles.
During the prior year, an impairment charge of 14.8m was recorded against goodwill relating to Socit Franaise fide Garantie S. A.
As set out in note 14, changes in respect of commercial outcomes around sales volumes, prices, margins and discount rates can impact the recoverable value.
Management do not believe that any reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions would produce an impairment in the forthcoming year.
