Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements For a good leaver, any outstanding unvested LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served.
The Committee may dis-apply the time pro-rating requirement if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the case of cessation due to death, the Committee can determine that the awards vest early.
Outstanding vested but not exercised awards can be exercised by a good leaver until the expiry of the normal exercise period or within 12 months in the case of death.
In determining whether an Executive should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individuals departure.
The treatment of share awards on a change of control is the same as that set out above in relation to a good leaver albeit with the vesting period automatically ending on the date of the change in control.
Recruitment Policy Base salary levels will be set in accordance with HomeServes remuneration policy, taking account of the executives skills, experience and their current remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
Benefits will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation expenses and or an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
For an overseas appointment which may include the relocation of an existing Director, the benefit and pension arrangements may be tailored to reflect local market practice subject to the overall maximum limits on pension set out in the policy table.
The structure of variable pay element will be in accordance with HomeServes policy as detailed above.
The maximum permitted variable pay opportunity under the Plan rules is 450% of salary 100% of salary bonus 200% of salary LTIP 150% of salary matching award.
However, the normal award limits are a bonus of 100% of salary, a performance share award of 150% of salary and up to a 150% of salary matching award.
In the case of the matching awards, a new recruit may invest up to 25% of salary from their own funds in the first year in order to receive a matching award in determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
