Governance Remuneration report Some past LTIP awards have been subject to a performance condition requiring growth in earnings per share EPS in excess of inflation over the performance period with 50% of the award subject to the EPS condition and 50% to the TSR condition.
A split EPS and TSR condition may be reintroduced for future LTIP grant cycles, if a suitably robust earnings growth measure can be determined and the Committee considers it is appropriate to do so.
The Committee would inform its major shareholders in advance of such a measure being set but considers that this would not constitute a change in policy, and therefore would not require a revised vote on the policy report.
Under the rules of the plan, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the targets applying to existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
Awards under the LTIP may be granted as conditional allocations or nil or nominal cost options with, or as, forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash based awards of an equivalent value to share based awards or to satisfy share based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
Awards are satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the 2008 LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
The Committee recognises that the current LTIP was introduced in 2008 and it is intended that the LTIP will be reviewed in FY15 to ensure that it continues to reflect market practice and to provide appropriate rewards.
Shareholders would be consulted in the event that changes were proposed.
Clawback The Committee has the power to reclaim some, or all, of a cash bonus and vested LTIP awards performance and matching in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of financial results, an error in assessment of performance, the use of misleading information and or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Legacy arrangements Details of the outstanding share awards held by directors are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
These include vested but unexercised awards granted to Richard Harpin under the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP which may be exercised at any time until the tenth anniversary of grant and unvested awards granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP which for the 2011 awards, include an earnings per share performance condition for 50% of the awards.
No further awards may be granted under the ESOP or DBP.
For the avoidance of doubt, these outstanding share awards will be allowed to be paid out under the approved policy providing that the terms on which the awards have been granted are satisfied.
