Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements 36.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group had five 2013: five share-based payment schemes, which are described below: i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP provides for the grant of performance, matching and restricted awards.
The vesting period is three years for performance and matching awards.
The vesting period for the restricted awards is 2 years for those granted in 2013 and 3 years for those granted in 2014.
For the performance and matching awards granted in 2013 and 2014, vesting is dependent upon the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Group over the relevant performance period.
For the 2011 and 2012 awards, 50% of the award is dependent upon Total Shareholder Return and 50% is subject to a target based on Earnings per Share growth.
The restricted awards granted in 2013 and 2014 are subject to the continued employment of the participant at the date of vesting.
ii Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE The SAYE is open to all UK employees and provides for an exercise price equal to the closing quoted market price on the day before the date of grant, less a discretionary discount.
The options can be exercised during a six month period following the completion of either a three or five year savings period.
iii Executive Share Option Plan ESOP The ESOP provided for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The vesting period was three years and was dependent upon the real increase in Earnings per Share over the vesting period.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
The plan is no longer used.
iv 2005 Key Executive Incentive Plan KEIP The KEIP provided for a grant price equal to the closing quoted market price of the Companys shares on the day before the date of grant.
The awards vested in two tranches, the first being between three and four years from the date of grant and the second being on the second anniversary of the vesting of the first tranche.
The number of awards vesting was dependent upon the Profit before Tax of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008 and was subject to a minimum share price criteria during the year ending 31 March 2009.
v Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The DBP enabled the individual to defer receipt of their annual cash bonus up to a maximum of 100% and to invest an equivalent amount in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The deferred bonus may be matched by the Company dependent upon the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return over a three year period.
The shares lapse if not exercised within 10 years from the date of grant.
HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 145 Financial statements Notes to financial statements Year ended 31 March 2014 36.
The estimated fair values are calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing model for the ESOP and SAYE and Monte Carlo simulations for the KEIP, LTIP and DBP.
The assumptions used in the models which are comparable to the prior year are as follows: Input Assumption Share price Price at date of grant Exercise price Per scheme rules Expected volatility 20% 56% Option life Per scheme rules Expected dividends Based on historic dividend yield Risk free interest rate 3.1% 5.2% HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 | 147
