STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 147 GLOSSARY Advanced Manufacturing Group combines the precision engineering and manufacturing capabilities AMG in the Well Construction segment for the Electronics division Hunting Innova and Hunting Dearborn product lines.
Hunting is aiming to become a leading single source of MWD LWD tools.
Average gross capital employed The monthly average of the aggregate of capital employed.
Basic EPS Basic earnings per share - calculated by dividing the earnings from continuing operations attributable to Ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
bbl Barrel of oil one barrel of oil equals 159 litres or 42 US gallons.
BOE Barrel of oil equivalent.
Capital employed The amount of capital available to the Group to invest in its business and comprises the total equity plus net debt.
Expenditure on tangible non-current assets.
Capital expenditure Capex Carbon dioxide.
CO e 2 Dividend per share the amount in pence cents returned to Ordinary shareholders.
Figures shown are DPS calculated on an accruals basis.
Diluted EPS Diluted earnings per share earnings from continuing operations before amortisation and exceptional items, attributable to Ordinary shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year, as adjusted for all potentially dilutive Ordinary shares.
Dividend cover An indication of the Companys ability to maintain the level of its dividend and is calculated as earnings from continuing operations attributable to Ordinary shareholders divided by the cash dividend to be returned to Ordinary shareholders, on an accruals basis.
Downhole Downhole refers to something that is located within the wellbore.
EBITDA Pre-exceptional earnings before share of associates post-tax results, interest, tax, depreciation, impairment and amortisation.
ESOP Executive Share Option Plan.
Free cash flow Profit from continuing operations adjusted for working capital, tax, replacement capital expenditure and interest.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Gearing Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
Growth capital expenditure Capital expenditure to grow the business from current operating levels and enhance operating activity.
HEMS Hunting Equipment Management Services provide downhole tool rental equipment in the Well Construction segment.
HPSP Hunting Performance Share Plan.
HS&E Health, Safety and Environment.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS The total controlled scope 1 and scope 2 emissions divided by the total facilities footprint of the Group.
Intensity Factor Inventory and WIP at the year end divided by revenue per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
Inventory and WIP days International Standards Organisation.
ISO Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY 148 GLOSSARY CONTINUED A production practice that eliminates wasteful processes, thereby reducing production time and costs, LEAN or Lean and improving efficiency.
mmBtu Million British Thermal Units.
NEB Net equivalent barrels of oil.
Net debt Net debt comprises bank overdrafts, current and non-current borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash equivalents and investments.
NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange.
OCTG Oil Country Tubular Goods pipe and tubular goods and products used in the oil and gas industry, such as drill pipe, pipe casings and production pipes.
Replacement capital expenditure Capital expenditure necessary to maintain existing levels of operating activity.
ROCE Return on average capital employed measures profit before interest and tax before amortisation and exceptional items, as a percentage of average gross capital employed.
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the entity.
Scope 1 Scope 1 emissions include fossil fuels burned on site, emissions from vehicles and other direct sources.
Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling or steam generated off site but purchased by the entity.
Trade payable days The average number of days credit taken by the Group, calculated as trade payables at the year end divided by cost of sales per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
Trade receivable days The average number of days credit given to the Groups customers, calculated as trade receivables at the year end divided by revenue per day, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions.
TSR Total Shareholder Return the net share price change plus the dividends paid during that period.
Underlying Results for the year, as reported under IFRS, adjusted for amortisation and exceptional items, which is the basis used by the Directors in assessing performance.
Wellbore The wellbore refers to the drilled hole.
Well completion Well completion refers to the processes of preparing a well for production.
This involves the assembly of downhole tubulars and equipment required to enable safe and efficient production from an oil or gas well.
Well construction Well construction refers to the initial drilling and processes of constructing the wellbore in an oil and gas well.
These processes typically include drilling and logging the hole: running, cementing and logging the casing: hydraulic fracturing or stimulating the well and monitoring well performance and integrity.
Well intervention Well intervention refers to any operation carried out on an oil or gas well that maintains or enhances the production of the well or provides well diagnostics.
Working capital Trade and other receivables, excluding receivables from associates, derivative financial assets, environmental escrow and promissory notes, plus inventories less trade and other payables, excluding payables due to associates, derivative financial liabilities, dividend liabilities and retirement plan obligations.
WTI West Texas Intermediate the price per barrel of Texas light sweet crude oil.
Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS Solicitors CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Independent Auditors  LLP Joint Corporate Brokers Deutsche Bank and Barclays Bank Financial Advisers DC Advisory Limited Insurance Brokers Willis Limited Pension Advisers & Actuary Lane Clark & Peacock LLP Financial Public Relations Buchanan Communications Limited Registrars & Transfer Office Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road, Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone UK : 0871 384 2173 Overseas: 44 0 121 415 7047 Company Contact Details Registered Office: 5 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HQ Registered Number: 974568 Registered in England and Wales Telephone: 44 0 20 7321 0123 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7839 2072 www.
com Designed by Emperor Printed by Park Communications on paper manufactured from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp sourced from sustainable forests Park Communications is certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme EMAS Hunting PLC 2014 Annual Report and Accounts HUNTING PLC 5 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HQ, United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7321 0123 Fax: 44 0 20 7839 2072 www.
