22 IMI plc Strategy in action 4.
Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our organic growth initiatives with targeted acquisitions, capable of producing returns in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital within three years.
Beyond our existing business portfolio, we have identified the potential to double the Groups addressable market by making acquisitions in adjacent non-valve product markets.
Criteria for such acquisitions include a focus on North American revenues, strong aftermarket dynamics and critical products that create significant barriers to entry.
Our acquisition strategies for each of the divisions are as follows: Our Precision Engineering division offers We will supplement this organic growth by The growth plan in our Hydronic significant potential for accelerated continuing to target bolt-on acquisitions Engineering division is predominantly growth.
However, harnessing this to expand our product range and our organically focused.
However, there is potential will take time.
In the first phase geographic footprint within our existing potential to grow the division through markets and to extend our Oil & Gas of our plan we will address the existing acquisition.
Any addition would need presence into adjacent attractive markets infrastructure, including simplifying to satisfy stringent criteria including, including subsea.
We will also consider the organisation, implementing robust in particular, building critical mass in expanding our product range to include systems and improving operational the North American market.
semi-severe and configured opportunities performance.
Once the division is in each of our key sectors.
operating optimally we will look to supplement growth by targeting larger scale acquisitions.
Broadening the acquisition universe Potential to double addressable market Leverage existing positions in attractive end markets i. e. Oil & Gas Non-valve related products and businesses Geographies Market dynamics Products North America Aftermarket 30% Barriers to entry Europe Growth rate 5% pa Criticality of application Latin America Customer intimacy Predictable aftermarket Asia Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IMI welcomes Bopp & Reuther We announced the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther in November 2014, and the acquisition completed on 2 January 2015.
With decades of experience, Bopp & Reuther is a global specialist in the design, manufacture and servicing of safety, control and shut off valves for process industries as well as conventional and nuclear power plants world-wide.
Bopp & Reuther was privately owned, with its head office and manufacturing The acquisition of Bopp & plant located in Mannheim, Germany Reuther offers significant benefits about 70km from Frankfurt.
It includes and opportunities, including: five service centres with two in Germany, The acquisition of a well-established and employs 419 people.
Following the business with a strong presence acquisition, the current CEO Bernard and installed base in Germany.
Engel and the management team, will remain with the business.
An increased product range for fossil and nuclear power which Established over 135 years ago, Bopp & can be offered to IMI CCIs existing Reuther is a pioneer in the valve industry customer base.
and launched the first pneumatically operated safety valves in the 1950s Manufacturing capability for a breakthrough in efficiency and safety medium volume configured valves for process industries at the time.
which will support growth in China and India.
The opportunity to extend Bopp & Reuthers products to new markets in North and South America.
The potential to extend IMIs aftermarket capability to service the global installed base of Bopp & Reuthers valves.
The opportunity to maximise performance of IMI CCI and Bopp & Reuther through purchasing, manufacturing and lean systems Turbine bypass valve collaboration.
