82 IMI plc Financial statements FINANCE DIRECTORS INTRODUCTION Introduction from Douglas Hurt Introduction from Daniel Shook Dear Shareholder Dear Shareholder Welcome to the financial statements section of our Annual I am extremely pleased to be joining IMI.
Report, which will be my last as Finance Director of IMI plc ahead Since joining it has been great to see how committed and of my retirement and following the announcement of Daniel Shook passionate people are about the Group and its future.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my nine years with visited as much of the organisation as possible during my first the Group and I am proud of the progress that the Group has two months.
I wish Daniel every success in the future.
It is clear that we really have a great foundation with which to My financial review commentary is set out in this section grow and I look forward to working with everyone to achieve the alongside the primary statements.
These financial statements longer term strategy that the Board, Mark and the Executive are presented with the primary statements first, followed by five team have set out.
sections: Basis of Preparation, Results for the Year, Operating Assets and Liabilities, Capital Structure and Financing Costs I would personally like to thank Douglas both for his support and Other Notes.
during the initial months and for handing me such a strong and dedicated organisation, a good set of results and strong balance As previously reported, the Retail Dispense businesses were sheet to build from.
disposed of on 1 January 2014 and consequently their comparative results are shown as discontinued operations I look forward to meeting many of you at the AGM in May 2015. in the income statement, while their comparative assets and liabilities are presented as held for sale in the balance sheet.
Daniel Shook Following our Strategic Review the Eley Group and AFP were Finance Director Designate both disposed of in the year.
In addition, the Group acquired Bopp & Reuther for an enterprise value of 153m 118m on 2 January 2015.
Douglas Hurt Finance Director 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements INTRODUCTION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS Primary statements Notes to the financial statements provide additional information Consolidated income statement and commentary thereon........... 84 required by statute, accounting standards or the Listing Rules Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, to explain a particular feature of the financial statements.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity and notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional commentary thereon.................................................................. 86 disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation Consolidated balance sheet and of the Annual Report and the financial statements.
