98 IMI plc SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.1.
3.5 Audit Fees The Group engages its auditor, EY, to perform assignments in addition to their statutory audit duties where their expertise, experience and knowledge of the Group should enable them to perform these assignments more efficiently than other similar service providers.
The Groups policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 53.
Fees earned by EY and its associates during the year are set out below: 2014 2013 Continuing Continuing Discontinued Business Business Business Total m m m m Fees earned by the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 - 0.2 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.6 0.5 3.1 Tax compliance services 0.3 0.1 - 0.1 Other assurance services - 0.1 - 0.1 Total 3.0 3.0 0.5 3.5 2.2 Exceptional items 2.2.
4 Impairment losses and acquired intangible amortisation The Group uses the exceptional items category in the income statement to As reported at the half-year and prior to its disposal in October 2014 see 3.5, classify separately items of both income and expense which are sufficiently due to reduced expectations for the future performance of AFP, the Group large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements carried out a review of the recoverable amount of the business.
Alongside to gain a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
this, we also reassessed the amounts to be paid based on the businesss performance in the three to five years following the acquisition.
This review The following items are considered to be exceptional in these led to the recognition of an exceptional net impairment loss of 10.8m, financial statements.
partially offset by a deferred tax credit of 3.8m.
As reported on page 106, following completion of the Groups annual 2.2.
1 Reversal of net economic hedge impairment review an exceptional impairment loss has been recorded for 26.9m reflecting a deterioration in the current trading base of Remosa.
contract losses gains Additional exceptional impairment losses were recognised of 1.1m on For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic announcement of the proposed closure of IMI Components and 2.0m for the impairment of legacy IT software as Hydronic Engineering implements hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are included in the segmental a new ERP system.
revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
The exceptional An analysis by segment of acquired intangible amortisation is included in items at the operating level reverse this treatment.
1. items reflect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the financial institutions with whom they were transacted.
5 Gain on disposal of subsidiaries a reversal of a loss of 3.9m 2013: reversal of gain of 5.1m and the latter amounted to a loss of 6.7m 2013: gain of 2.7m.
Gains on the disposals of Eley and AFP are discussed in section 3.5.
6 Acquisition and disposal costs The restructuring costs treated as exceptional of 8.6m 2013: 14.2m include Acquisition and disposal costs comprise 2.2m of fees associated with the 4.2m costs for the closure of IMI Components, announced in August 2014 acquisition of Bopp & Reuther which were incurred in the year and a net release and 4.4m on the completion of the IMI Norgren UK factory move.
Other of 0.4m relating to deferred remuneration included within the post-employment restructuring costs of 2.6m have been charged below segmental operating contracts of the vendors for the AFP and NPSL acquisitions 2013: charge of 1.9m.
profit and included in the underlying operating profit as, based on their quantum, they do not meet our definition of exceptional items.
Preparatory costs for the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses in the prior year amounted to 8.0m and principally represented costs payable to the legal and financial advisors assisting with the origination and completion of the transaction, 2.2.
3 Gains on special pension events in addition to the advisory costs borne in 2013 relating to the return of cash.
As described on page 125, the UK Fund was split into two newly formed schemes one for pensioners and one for deferred members resulting in a 2.2.
7 Taxation one-off settlement gain of 3.5m.
In addition, the insurance buy-out of one of our Swedish schemes resulted in a further settlement gain of 3.5m.
The tax effects of the above items are included in the exceptional column Both of these gains have been treated as exceptional items.
In addition, during the year the Group incurred a one-off charge of 2.8m in respect of a prior year tax audit.
In 2013, exceptional tax charges of 14.7m were incurred in association with the pre-sale restructuring of certain of the Retail Dispense businesses and were included in discontinued operations.
