92 IMI plc SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of their 1.1 carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell.
Introduction The policies described in this section and in the accompanying sections have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these IMI plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements except as discussed below.
Refer to section consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and 5.4 for the Groups significant accounting policies.
its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity i New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been by the Group during 2014 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law IFRSs.
The Company has elected to The following amended standards were adopted in these financial statements prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP during 2014, none of which had any impact: and these are presented on pages 149 to 152.
The financial statements were IAS36 Impairment of Assets approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015.
IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 1.2 IFRIC21 Levies Restatements and changes in accounting estimates ii Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2014 and are not yet endorsed by the EU Restatement in respect of other payables The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new accounting standards and The Group pays taxes in various countries which requires the interpretation amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
of complex tax laws in these jurisdictions.
Accordingly, both the amounts The following new standards in particular are expected to have an impact on expected to be payable and the period in which settlement is likely to be made the Group although the Group is yet to assess the full impact.
are reassessed from time to time.
During the current year, the Group performed IFRS9 Financial Instruments 2014 a review of its disclosure of the related tax liabilities, including when payment was due, and has determined that amounts previously classified within other A finalised version of IFRS9 was issued in July 2014, incorporating requirements payables - non-current liabilities of 35m at 31 December 2013 would be more for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting appropriately included in current tax.
Comparatives have been reclassified to and fide-recognition.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS9.
reflect this change in presentation.
The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 2017 1.3 IFRS15 provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all Basis of accounting contracts with customers.
Guidance is provided on topics such as the point at which revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs of The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various related matters.
New disclosures Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, about revenue are also introduced.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS15s full except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million.
The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2017. prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments: availablefor-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged items: and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
