105 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3.2 Intangible assets The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, order books, patents, development costs and software development costs.
The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights.
In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities acquired.
The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources, but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce.
The value of the Groups intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement.
The Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not arise on acquisitions, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets the definition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2.
Where there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business acquired is below expectations, the Directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values.
If this has happened, a one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the specific judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at these values.
These assets have been separately disclosed in the table above.
In the prior year these assets were not material and were included within other non-acquired intangibles.
106 IMI plc SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.2.
2 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge, instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash flows of the business to which it relates the cash generating unit, or CGU.
These cash flows are discounted to reflect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with the growth rates assumed in the cash flow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs based on the synergies 2014 2013 expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose.
% % The Group has 24 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
Pre-tax discount rate 9.8 - 16.4 10.6 - 14.6 Where our businesses operate closely with each other we will continue to review whether they should be treated as a single or combined CGU.
Long-term growth rate 1.0 - 3.8 1.6 - 3.6 Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment of Following our impairment review, the goodwill associated with the Remosa assets against their recoverable amounts.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is CGU, within the IMI Critical Engineering division was considered to be impaired.
the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is This impairment has arisen due to a deterioration in the current trading base determined using cash flow projections from financial budgets, forecasts and of Remosa.
A value in use calculation was used to determine the 48.4m plans approved by the Board covering a five-year period.
The projected cash recoverable amount of the Remosa CGU, which used a discount rate of flows reflect the latest expectation of demand for products and services.
As a result the Group has recognised an exceptional impairment loss of 26.9m.
The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and the discount rates applied to forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement As reported at the half-year and prior to disposal in October 2014, the Group of the forecasts themselves.
Long-term growth rates are based on long-term carried out a review of the recoverable amount of the AFP business due economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical to reduced expectations.
This included a reassessment of the businesss regions in which the cash generating unit operates.
Pre-tax discount rates performance in the three to five years following the acquisition.
This review specific to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group led to the recognition of an exceptional impairment loss of 10.8m, of which post-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC of 9% for the tax rate 0.9m was against goodwill, partially offset by a deferred tax credit of 3.8m.
relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the unit, No amounts of goodwill that are significant in the context of the Groups the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical total goodwill balance used the same key assumptions for the purposes of regions from which the cash flows are derived.
impairment testing in either this year or the last.
For the purpose of assessing the significance in this context, the Group uses a threshold of 20% of the total This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the goodwill balance.
key assumptions: The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to 364m.
The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is 34m 2013: 6m.
The cumulative acquired intangible amortisation is 149.6m 2013: 136.0m.
