150 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1.
Significant accounting policies Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation with items considered material in relation to the financial statements, except benefits as set out in Section 4.7 to the Group financial statements.
The fair where otherwise noted below: value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recharged to the principal employing company.
Basis of accounting When a parent grants share-based payments to employees of a subsidiary, The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost UITF41 Scope of FRS20 and UITF44 Group and Treasury Share Transactions convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards except states that the parent receives services from the employees indirectly through for certain financial instruments as defined by FRS26 Financial Instruments: its subsidiary which should be accounted for as an increase in the investment Measurement which are stated at fair value.
in the subsidiary by the parent.
The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as Amounts recharged to subsidiaries are recognised as a reduction in the cost of permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. investment in the subsidiary as this recharge is considered to form part of the determination of the net capital contribution from the parent in respect of the Under FRS1 Cash Flow Statements, the Company is exempt from the share-based payment arrangement.
Accordingly, there is no overall increase in requirement to prepare a cash flow statement on the grounds that the Company the investment in subsidiaries recorded in the Companys financial statements.
is included in its own published consolidated financial statements.
The recharged amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions contained in FRS8 one year.
Related party disclosures and has not disclosed transactions or balances The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference with wholly owned entities which form part of the Group.
Related party to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market transactions with the Companys key management personnel are disclosed in vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Nonthe Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 79 and in Section 5.2 on page 135 of market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of the Group financial statements.
The Company has adopted the requirements options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options at of FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has taken the exemption the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
under that standard from disclosure on the grounds that the Group financial statements contain disclosures in compliance with IFRS7.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest.
The Company intends to adopt FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, which is effective for accounting periods commencing on 1 January 2015.
The comparatives It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the for the year ending 31 December 2014 will be restated to reflect this change.
amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings.
Notice will be provided to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable Foreign currencies transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of transaction.
Treasury shares Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase.
If treasury and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve.
Investments The Companys cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is stated at the Dividends or shares presented within shareholders funds aggregate of a the cash consideration and either b the nominal value of the Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the applies or c in all other cases the market value of the Companys shares on discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria the date they were issued as consideration.
are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Remuneration of directors The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain and options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report items for taxation and accounting purposes.
3 of the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised without discounting, in respect of all timing C3.
Staff numbers and costs differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting The number of people employed by the Company, including Directors, during purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except the year was 28 2013: 25 all of whom were employed in administrative roles.
The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking.
Financial instruments The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit The principal financial instruments utilised by the Company are interest rate schemes in which the assets are held independently.
The Company is unable swaps.
These instruments are used for hedging purposes in line with the to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the schemes Groups risk management policy.
Interest differentials are taken to net interest and consequently in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9 b the Company in the profit and loss account.
is required to account for pension costs as if the schemes were a defined contribution schemes.
Section 4.5 to the Group financial statements provides If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because further details regarding the defined benefit schemes.
the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss is recognised at that time.
