108 IMI plc SECTION 3 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.4 3.5 Acquisitions Disposals The Group disposed of the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014, Eley The following section discusses businesses acquired by the Group, which Limited, Accles and Shelvoke Limited and Eley Americas Inc together Eley have given rise to the additions to the acquired intangible assets including on 4 October 2014 and Mecanique Analytique Inc trade name AFP on 23 goodwill reported in section 3.2 and which contributed to the Groups profits, October 2014. working capital and other balance sheet asset and liabilities.
This section also discusses acquisitions in the prior year and subsequent to the year-end.
Retail Dispense The disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses are discussed further in the section 2.5.
1 Eley Acquisitions subsequent to year-end The Group disposed of Eley on 4 October 2014 for proceeds of 41.6m On 2 January 2015, the Group acquired the entire share capital of B&R Holding resulting in an exceptional profit on disposal for the Group of 33.1m after GmbH Bopp & Reuther for an enterprise value of approximately 118m disposing of 6.5m of net assets and incurring 2.0m of associated disposal 153m including the assumption of debt of approximately 15m.
As discussed on page 37, the business was considered to be non-core to IMI Critical Engineerings operations.
Bopp & Reuther is a leading manufacturer of safety, control and shut-off valve technology for process industries as well as conventional fossil and nuclear The gain on disposal is presented in the income statement as an exceptional power plants worldwide.
Its head office and manufacturing plant is located in item but it is not disclosed as a discontinued item because it did not represent Mannheim, Germany and it has service centres in Germany, Austria, Romania a separate major line of business.
The senior management and all of its 419 employees transferred upon completion of the acquisition by the Group.
AFP Following the impairment loss of 10.8m recorded in the first half of the year, Bopp & Reuther joins the IMI Critical Engineering division and is very closely the results of AFP continued to be disappointing.
As a result, on 23 October aligned with IMI Critical Engineerings existing large control valve business 2014 the Group disposed of AFP.
A payment was agreed of CAD$4.5m 2.5m CCI.
For more information on Bopp & Reuther, see page 23. with the previous vendors to compensate them for the waiver of their earnGiven the close proximity of this acquisition to the date of approval of these out arrangement, which resulted in settlement of the estimated contingent financial statements, the initial acquisition accounting is not yet complete.
The resulting gain on disposal was 1.1m.
The completion accounts process and conversion of amounts from German The gain on disposal is presented in the income statement as an exceptional GAAP to IFRS has not yet been finalised.
Consequently, disclosures regarding item but it is not disclosed as a discontinued item because it did not represent the revenue and profits of Bopp & Reuther for 2014, the fair value of the assets a separate major line of business.
and liabilities acquired, the fair value of the consideration and amounts allocated to goodwill and intangible assets have not been given and will be included in the Groups 2015 Interim announcement.
2 Acquisitions in the previous period Analytical Flow Products AFP Following the acquisition of AFP on 21 August 2013, at 31 December 2013 the contingent consideration, identifiable net assets and resulting goodwill were considered provisional.
At 30 June 2014 these acquisition balances were considered to be final.
As discussed in section 3.5, the Group disposed of AFP on 23 October 2014.
Nano-Porous Solutions Limited NPSL On 29 October 2013 the Group acquired NPSL for a total purchase consideration of 6.1m.
Total identifiable net assets were 4.2m, resulting in goodwill of 1.9m.
These amounts were deemed provisional at 31 December 2013.
As of 30 June 2014, these provisional amounts were finalised with no adjustment to the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
