135 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.4 Contingent liabilities Significant accounting policies A.
Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc its outcome.
and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2014.
In our 2012 and 2013 accounts, we made reference to companies belonging to the British builders merchant serving damages claims against IMI plc and Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the copper plumbing tubes and copper plumbing fittings.
This matter was financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from settled during the year.
its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the business and other items amounted to 144m 2013: 114m.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits 5.2 arising from them, are eliminated in full.
Related party transactions A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a Related parties are solely the key management personnel.
The Board is subsidiary, it: considered to be the key management personnel of the Group.
derecognises the assets including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary and liabilities of the subsidiary: derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: 2014 2013 derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: m m recognises the fair value of the consideration received: Short-term employee benefits 5.1 6.5 recognises the fair value of any investment retained: Termination Benefits - 0.5 Share-based payments 1.6 5.7 recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and Total 6.7 12.7 reclassifies the Parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers social Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
There are no other related party transactions.
Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
Non-controlling interests are 5.3 presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity Subsequent events attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are proportionally attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Events that occur in the period between 31 December and the date of B.
Use of judgements and estimates approval of the Annual Report can be categorised as adjusting or nonThe preparation of financial statements requires management to make adjusting depending on whether the condition existed at 31 December.
If judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the event is an adjusting event, then an adjustment to the results is made.
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, If a non-adjusting event after the year end is material, non-disclosure could income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
influence decisions that readers of the financial statements make.
Accordingly, for each material non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose i. Judgement the nature of the event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership SLP and inclusion that such an estimate cannot be made.
of the UK Pension Funds interests in this special purpose entity as a non-controlling interest.
The acquisition of Bopp & Reuther completed on 2 January 2015.
This is In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund categorised as a non-adjusting event and is discussed further in section 3.4.
1. of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership SLP, an entity controlled by the Group, which conferred upon the Fund conditional rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined by SIC 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated.
It was determined that the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that 136 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued consolidation was appropriate.
As referred to in Section 4.5.
2, during the year the provisions is based on various factors, such as experience of previous tax IMI Pension Fund commenced winding up procedures and the relevant liabilities audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and were transferred to one of two new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 the responsible tax authority.
Such differences of interpretation may arise on a Pensioner Fund together the Funds.
The interest in the SLP is now held jointly wide variety of issues depending on the conditions prevailing in the respective by the Funds.
domicile of the Group companies.
There are certain conditions under which the Group can defer the amounts Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it payable to the Funds, in particular, the Partnership Agreement includes a clause is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be under which the payments in the year are deferred in the event that the Group utilised.
Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount has not paid a dividend in the preceding year.
Because the Group has the of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and ability to defer such payments indefinitely and is in control of the circumstances the level of future taxable profits.
under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by Trading provisions the agreement are discretionary and therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32.
As such the Funds interests in this SLP have been recorded as The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its non-controlling interests, as a component of equity.
products are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and to customer specifications, there will always be a risk of products requiring ii.
Estimates and assumptions modification, which can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation inventory, collection risk regarding receivables and other trading provisions.
uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material Provisions are held against these risks, which are estimated based on past adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next experience of claims and by measuring the likely use of inventory in the future financial year are described below.
The Group bases its assumptions and against past usage.
The degree of dependence on future events makes these estimates on information available when the consolidated financial statements estimates inherently subjective.
Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control Employee benefits of the Group are reflected in the assumptions when they occur.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is The present value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans and other revised and in any future periods affected.
post-employment benefits are determined using actuarial valuations.
An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from Impairment of non-financial assets actual developments in the future.
These include the determination of the Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit discount rate, inflation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs pension increases.
These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis to sell and its value in use.
The value in use is based on a discounted cash flow thereon, are included in Section 4.5.
Due to the complexity of the valuation model.
Cash flows are derived from the Groups long-term forecasts for the and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to next three to five years.
The principal assumptions in these calculations are the changes in these assumptions.
long-term growth rates and the discount rate applied to forecast cash flows in In particular, although only constituting a minor proportion of the assets, addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves.
Further information the valuation of the UK Funds interests in the Scottish Limited Partnership on this process and the assets affected is included in Section 3.2. is a highly subjective area because their valuation depends on an actuarial assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, Disposed businesses taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either The Group has over the years disposed of a number of businesses.
The sale cease in the event that the two UK Pension Funds both became fully funded or agreements contained various warranties and indemnities.
In some cases, become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders.
the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events.
At the time of disposal, the accounts Development costs reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.
Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set out These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised in IAS38: Intangible Assets.
Initial capitalisation of costs is based on where necessary.
managements judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility of the asset, and only when a product development project has reached a Share-based payments point where such determinations can be made.
In testing these assets for The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by impairment, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected granted.
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires period of benefits.
Further detail is provided in Section 3.2. determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant.
This estimate also requires determination C. Revenue recognition of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions.
benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for shareThe nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group based payment transactions are disclosed in Section 4.7. enters means that: Taxes the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks and rewards to the customer.
Where such discrete elements are present, Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income.
Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the between the actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to total contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis.
such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
The Group establishes provisions, based As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Groups revenue is on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax recognised on a sale of goods basis.
authorities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional by the Group are set out below: in these financial statements: gains and losses including fair value adjustments on derivative financial i.
Sale of goods instruments: Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the significant restructuring costs are not disclosed as exceptional items: consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
special pension events, which comprise settlement gains relating to the Groups defined benefit schemes: Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products impairment losses recorded against goodwill, intangible assets and other sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under operating assets: internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer the amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets: risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for gains on disposals of subsidiaries: and the Interpretation of Trade Terms.
Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are costs associated with acquisitions and disposals, which principally represent: generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
- costs payable to the legal and financial advisors assisting with the origination ii.
Rendering of services and completion of the transactions: As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually - contingent consideration payments which because they might be forfeited insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided in some of the instances in which the vendors post-acquisition employment on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the contracts may be terminated are required by IFRS3 revised to be treated service is complete.
Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items.
proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
E. Financial income and expense The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
Revenue recognition from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
Dividend income is on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
separately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents construction contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of the assumed interest on the difference between employee benefit plan liabilities goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods.
and the employee benefit plan assets.
Construction contracts Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
However, where get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in in connection with the borrowing of funds.
comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
F. Income tax Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in Current tax payable receivable represents the expected tax payable receivable revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met.
Variations on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations in respect of prior years.
with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial triggering the incentive will be achieved.
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen.
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the D. Exceptional items differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences and added back in arriving at adjusted earnings, where the quantum, the reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying enacted by the balance sheet date.
138 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable trade payables are stated at cost.
profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
G. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses Where applicable, on initial classification as held for sale, non-current disposal being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs in the income statement.
Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are J.
Other hedging impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof.
Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or Once classified as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
forecast transactions A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
asset or liability, financial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is H. Foreign currencies applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging i.
Foreign currency transactions instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the deal-contingent date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements relating the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in the income to the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, movements statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in other comprehensive income cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date to the extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign the hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount to be received and the currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign movement in the fair value of the derivative designated as the hedge.
exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges ii.
Foreign operations that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity via Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge is effective.
The Group as a separate component of equity.
Since 1 January 2004, the Groups date assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
Financial instruments and fair value hedging K. Business combinations and goodwill Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration hedge see below.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of nonfixed deposits, principally comprising funds held with banks and other financial controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the institutions are classified as available for sale assets under IAS39, and held acquirees identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction at fair value.
Short-term borrowings and overdrafts are classified basis.
Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts the definition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D. and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and classified as fair value through profit or loss under IAS39, unless designated liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance as hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree.
derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be long-term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Where the long-term fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, fair value of the hedge.
it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
139 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the amortisation see below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount policy Impairment and are included in the other acquired or other nonrecognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin.
is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets iii.
Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination.
Assets acquired Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration calculated by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets are rate.
Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured.
Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business other than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers on a sum of digits basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets.
Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing available for use.
The estimated useful lives for: interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset usually a After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated maximum of 10 years impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a software development costs are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of other intangible assets are the life of the intangible asset up to 10 years the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which M. Property, plant and equipment the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
than an operating segment before aggregation.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation Impairment.
disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the property, plant and equipment.
Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution L. Intangible assets received from customers and are included in plant and equipment.
Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets.
Amortisation such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit so as to write down the of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives accounting policy D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility.
within the following ranges: The accounting policy for goodwill is described in accounting policy K. freehold buildings - 25 to 50 years i.
Research and development plant and equipment - 3 to 20 years Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining N. Leased assets new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of income statement as an expense as incurred.
ownership are classified as finance leases.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see above reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Other development on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate Impairment and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired under the terms of the lease.
The majority of leasing transactions entered into category of intangible assets depending on its origin.
by the Group are operating leases.
Inventories Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Because computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets of the varying nature of the Groups operations, both first in, first out FIFO at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on and weighted average methodologies are employed.
In respect of work in development of the asset to bring it into use.
Following initial recognition, progress and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
140 IMI plc SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES Continued P. Cash and cash equivalents ii.
Defined benefit pension plans Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on Q. Impairment the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises  costs.
The discount rate is the yield The carrying values of the Groups non-financial assets other than inventories at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate see accounting policy Inventories and deferred tax assets see accounting currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
policy Income tax, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit whether there is any indication of impairment.
When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service within its cash-generating unit is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Any deduction made by the tax authorities in the event of a refund of a surplus would be regarded by the Group as an income tax.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables other than financial assets comprehensive income.
held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash iii.
Long-term service and other post-employment benefits flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset.
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service and other postemployment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use an individual periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets generating unit based upon the latest Group forecast and extrapolated using is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth.
those of the Groups obligations.
These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks iv.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits specific to the asset.
Management believe that this approach, including the use The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical as set out in Section 4.7.
The fair value of the employee services received in experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.
the fair value of investment opportunities.
For an asset that does not generate The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of ii.
Reversals of impairment options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options is As required by IAS36: Impairment of Assets, any impairment of goodwill or determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
available for sale financial assets is non-reversible.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount For newly issued shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
premium when the options are exercised.
R. Dividends T. Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or by the subsidiarys shareholders in obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably respect of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Interim dividends payable are recognised on the date they are declared.
Provisions are valued at managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
S. Employee benefits A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved i.
Defined contribution pension plans a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an commenced or has been announced publicly.
expense in the income statement as incurred.
