93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SECTION 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR What you will find in this section This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group.
On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Groups results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
2.1 Segmental operating profit Organic revenue growth and operating profit are the two short-term key performance indicators or measures that reflect the way the performance of the Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee.
In this section the key constituents of these two KPIs, being the Groups revenues and segmental operating profits, are analysed by reference to the performance and activities of the Groups segments and their operating costs.
Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements.
1 Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Groups operating segments.
The operating segment reporting format reflects the Groups management and internal reporting structures and represents the information that was presented to the chief operating decision-maker, being the Executive Committee.
The Group did comprise the following five operating segments and activities, but as discussed earlier in these financial statements, the Retail Dispense businesses were disposed of on 1 January 2014 and consequently their comparative results are shown as discontinued operations in the income statement, while their comparative assets and liabilities are presented as held for sale in the balance sheet.
Continuing operations Retail Dispense discontinued operations IMI Critical Engineering Beverage Dispense IMI Critical Engineering provides flow control solutions that enable vital energy Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense and process industries to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently.
systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners Our products control the flow of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments and retailers.
and are designed to withstand temperature, and pressure extremes, as well Merchandising as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations.
Design, manufacture and supply of permanent point of purchase display IMI Precision Engineering systems for brand owners and retailers.
IMI Precision Engineering specialises in the design and manufacture of motion Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the and fluid control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability are profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items and other essential to the processes in which they are involved.
IMI Hydronic Engineering Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide IMI Hydronic Engineering is a leading provider of technologies that deliver economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and operational and energy efficient water-based heating and cooling systems for values in accordance with the Groups policy to minimise the risk of volatility the residential and commercial building sectors.
in revenues, costs and margins.
Segmental operating profits are therefore charged credited with the impact of these contracts.
In accordance with IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental revenue and profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement.
Corporate costs In 2014 and prior years corporate costs have been allocated to each of the divisions to arrive at segmental operating profit.
Whilst our corporate costs do not meet the definition of an operating segment under IFRS8 Operating Segments, for 2015 reporting and onwards we will separately disclose corporate costs before arriving at segmental operating profit so that reporting is consistent with the format that will be used for review by the chief operating decision-maker from 1 January 2015.
A table to illustrate how the Groups 2014 segmental operating profit would have been presented on the new basis has been included on the next page.
