20 IMI plc Strategy in action 3.
Increasing investment in new product development To ensure that we maximise to the full the additional investment we are making in new products we are standardising a number of processes and systems across the Group.
At the beginning of 2015 we launched a new Group-wide Advance Product Quality Planning process and a more standardised approach to the Computer Assisted Design CAD systems and procedures that we use across the Group.
The APQP manual is a Advanced Product Quality Planning APQP guideline for project teams to ensure that the process of On 1 January 2015, we launched a new Group-wide APQP process which, new product development for the first time, provides a standardised stage gate structure for all new product and introduction is efficient and brings added value to development projects.
The goal of APQP is to deliver projects on time, to the the customer.
required quality, at the agreed cost and in the most efficient way possible.
A crucial element of the process is the creation of a cross-functional team under a project manager involving representatives from all necessary functions including sales, R&D, engineering, procurement, operations and finance.
APQP timing plan Idea Programme Programme Confirmation Design Launch Launch Job 1 Concept approval readiness prototype freeze readiness sign off Planning Product design and development Process design and development Product and process validation Production Feedback assessment and corrective actions Computer Assisted Design We are rationalising the number of CAD systems that we use as part of the new product development process.
Going forwards we will use two core systems which enable both 3D modelling and detailed two dimensional drawings.
By harmonising the systems we will ensure consistency of approach across the product development process and also benefit from economies of scale by purchasing Group-wide solutions.
At IMI Hydronic Engineering, CAD is an integral part of the product development process.
Engineering GREAT Solutions Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Statoil ASA 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IMI CCI Vienna develops one of the largest titanium valves ever built The benefits of titanium in sea water The latest IMI CCI titanium valve allows applications have been widely periodical cycling tests of the platforms recognised by the offshore Oil & Gas fire water system, and real time safety industry in recent years.
Today, principally testing for the personnel on board.
in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, Titanium is immune to corrosion and the number and variety of applications for reduces the installation weight by half titanium and titanium alloys is increasing which is an important factor for offshore at an exponential rate.
The extended service The development of unique titanium life and reduced maintenance needs, in valves is part of the industrys effort combination with enhanced safety provide to ensure the highest safety levels for further crucial benefits for the client.
the new generation of offshore Innovation in new product development floating platforms.
is firmly embedded within IMI CCI Engineering.
IMI Precision Engineerings Adsorbent NYC Transit now has a dryer that is New generation air dryer Media Tube AMT dryer uses a patented projected to last up to 6 years, or 18,000 Maintenance engineers at New York technology radically different from service hours, significantly exceeding the City NYC Transit had experienced conventional desiccant beads.
This specified two-year maintenance cycle.
conditions where moisture in design delivers higher moisture uptake compressed air caused mechanical and faster purging without degrading problems on subway cars.
the dryer media, improving both performance and longevity.
The engineers found that the standard pressure dryers removed NYC Transit replaced the conventional damaging moisture when they were pressure dryers with AMT test units, and first installed on the subway cars, but after 12 months of operation, the test performance progressively declined, results showed that the air leaving the especially during hot, humid New York dryers was as dry as when the system City summers.
Unique diagnostic capabilities Unidirectional TA-Compact-P: a great new product access to all developed and introduced in nine months functions Kicked off in September 2013 with a cross-functional and cross-site team and a commitment to an accelerated time line, development of the TA-Compact-P was driven by customer requirements and competitor differentiation.
This new range of pressure independent balancing and control valves required a high-flow capacity, allowing universal application in cooling and heating systems.
TA-Compact-P was developed to stringent cost, timing Ametal : and operational specifications which were all satisfied using greater longevity the newly developed project disciplines adopted by the division.
This new range is promising to be one of Hydronic The most compact & high resistance valve on the market Engineerings most exciting product developments in years.
to corrosion Case studies online www.
