135 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SECTION 5 OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.4 Contingent liabilities Significant accounting policies A.
Subsidiaries and Non-controlling interests A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc its outcome.
and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as Associates or Joint Ventures as at 31 December 2014.
In our 2012 and 2013 accounts, we made reference to companies belonging to the British builders merchant serving damages claims against IMI plc and Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date others relating to alleged financial losses incurred in the UK as a result of on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the anti-competitive behaviour undertaken by a number of manufacturers of date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the copper plumbing tubes and copper plumbing fittings.
This matter was financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from settled during the year.
its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the business and other items amounted to 144m 2013: 114m.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits 5.2 arising from them, are eliminated in full.
Related party transactions A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a Related parties are solely the key management personnel.
The Board is subsidiary, it: considered to be the key management personnel of the Group.
derecognises the assets including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary and liabilities of the subsidiary: derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: 2014 2013 derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: m m recognises the fair value of the consideration received: Short-term employee benefits 5.1 6.5 recognises the fair value of any investment retained: Termination Benefits - 0.5 Share-based payments 1.6 5.7 recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and Total 6.7 12.7 reclassifies the Parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers social Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
There are no other related party transactions.
Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
Non-controlling interests are 5.3 presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity Subsequent events attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are proportionally attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Events that occur in the period between 31 December and the date of B.
Use of judgements and estimates approval of the Annual Report can be categorised as adjusting or nonThe preparation of financial statements requires management to make adjusting depending on whether the condition existed at 31 December.
If judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the event is an adjusting event, then an adjustment to the results is made.
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, If a non-adjusting event after the year end is material, non-disclosure could income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
influence decisions that readers of the financial statements make.
Accordingly, for each material non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose i. Judgement the nature of the event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership SLP and inclusion that such an estimate cannot be made.
of the UK Pension Funds interests in this special purpose entity as a non-controlling interest.
The acquisition of Bopp & Reuther completed on 2 January 2015.
This is In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund categorised as a non-adjusting event and is discussed further in section 3.4.
1. of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership SLP, an entity controlled by the Group, which conferred upon the Fund conditional rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
One of the judgements involved in this issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined by SIC 12: Consolidation Special Purpose Entities, and whether, in applying this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated.
It was determined that the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was determined that
