STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you In our opinion, Inchcape plcs Company financial statements if, in our opinion: the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations we give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs require for our audit: or as at 31 December 2014: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements the financial statements and the part of the Directors of the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement What we have audited with the accounting records and returns.
Inchcape plcs financial statements comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: Directors remuneration the accounting policies: and Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion the notes to the financial statements, which include other In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 the Annual Report Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law and Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 74, the Directors are responsible for the Other required reporting preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied Consistency of other information that they give a true and fair view.
Companies Act 2006 opinions Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with financial statements are prepared is consistent with the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and ISAs UK & Ireland reporting only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume information in the Annual Report is: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to materially inconsistent with the information in the audited whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come financial statements: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
com 149 Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc continued What an audit of the financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 9 March 2015 150 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 150 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
