STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared for Inchcape plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Inchcape Group the Group.
Accounting policies have been applied consistently.
Accounting convention These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified for fair values in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
In addition, the Company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 revised, Cash Flow Statements.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange and differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Finance costs Finance costs consist of interest payable on the Private Placement borrowing.
Costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full without discounting based on current tax rates and law, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future except as otherwise required by FRS 19, Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders funds.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Share-based payments The Company operates various share-based award schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share-based awards are granted is recognised in the profit and loss account together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For equity-settled share-based awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
With the exception of the Save As You Earn scheme, the vesting of all share-based awards under all schemes is solely reliant upon non-market conditions, therefore no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where an employee cancels a Save As You Earn award, the charge for that award is recognised as an expense immediately, even though the award does not vest.
The Company adopts Amendments to FRS 20 in line with the Groups adoption of Amendments to IFRS 2.
Financial instruments The adoption by the Company of FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures has had no impact as the Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to apply FRS 29 in its own financial statements.
The Groups policies on the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments under IFRS 7 are set out in the Groups accounting policies on pages 83 to 89. www.
