Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements The share capital issued as consideration in the exchange is 1.
General information treated as if it had existed from the earliest year presented.
This Indivior PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the presentation of share capital results in the creation of the Other Group is engaged in the development, manufacture, and sale of reserves in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Other reserves buprenorphine-based prescription drugs for the treatment of represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares opioid dependence the Indivior Business.
issued by the Company and the net investment in the Group by the former owner.
The Indivior Business was previously the pharmaceuticals business of the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB, carried out by RB Global When recognizing the share capital issued, the Company has Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings.
applied the provisions for merger relief under s. 612 of the Companies Act.
Accordingly, no premium has been recognized on The Company was incorporated and domiciled in the United the shares issued by the Company.
Kingdom on September 26, 2014 in connection with the demerger and is the holding company for the Group.
The Financial Statements include expense allocations for certain functions provided to the Group during the period before the The Indivior Business was demerged from RB on December 23, demerger from RB, including, but not limited to, general corporate 2014.
Upon demerger, each RB shareholder received one ordinary expenses related to finance, legal, tax, treasury, information share in the Company for each ordinary share in RB that they held technology, human resources, communications, employee benefits at the time of the demerger.
The Company received in return 100% and incentives, insurance and share-based compensation.
These of the share capital of RB Global Holdings Limited.
costs have historically been allocated to the Group.
The Financial The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Statements also include a portion of RBs costs relating to RBs these Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise operations as a public company, which historically were not stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the allocated to the Group.
RB had allocated these general corporate years presented.
expenses to the Group on the basis of direct usage when identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro-rata basis of revenues, operating profit, headcount or other measures of the Company and RB.
These costs are included within administrative 2.
Basis of preparation and changes expenses in the consolidated income statements.
Both Indivior in accounting policy and RB consider the basis on which the expenses have been The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in allocated to reasonably reflect the utilization of services provided accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to or the benefit received by the Group during the periods and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations as presented.
To the extent that no charge was made by RB for the adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 the services provided, the expenses incurred by RB represent an Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These Financial increase in the former owners investment in the Group that is, Statements have been prepared under the historical cost in substance, a capital contribution and accordingly have been convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial reflected as such in the Financial Statements.
assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Historically, RB performed cash management functions for the whole of RB, including the Indivior Business.
This included certain The Financial Statements are presented in US$.
cash pooling activities which resulted in the transfer of excess cash to RB.
Such transfers of cash to RB have been recorded in The introduction of Indivior PLC as the new ultimate holding equity as a reduction in the former owners investment in the company of the Group does not meet the IFRS 3 definition of a Group that is, in substance, a distribution.
business combination and as such falls outside the scope of that standard.
Following the guidance regarding the selection of an The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for appropriate accounting policy in IAS 8, the introduction of the accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
The Directors Company as the new ultimate holding company of the Group has have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate been accounted for as a group reconstruction using merger resources to continue in operational existence for the accounting principles.
This policy, which does not conflict with foreseeable future.
IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
This means that although the reorganization did not become effective The Group applies, for the first time, amendments to IAS 32 until December 23, 2014, the consolidated Financial Statements are Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets presented as if the current Group structure had always been in and financial liabilities, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition place.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year and measurement Novation of derivatives and continuation of ended December 31, 2014 and the comparative period are hedge accounting and IFRIC 21 Levies.
The new standards have presented as if the Group had been in existence throughout the not impacted the reported results or position of the Group.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 71
