Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements The share capital issued as consideration in the exchange is 1.
General information treated as if it had existed from the earliest year presented.
This Indivior PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together, the presentation of share capital results in the creation of the Other Group is engaged in the development, manufacture, and sale of reserves in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Other reserves buprenorphine-based prescription drugs for the treatment of represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares opioid dependence the Indivior Business.
issued by the Company and the net investment in the Group by the former owner.
The Indivior Business was previously the pharmaceuticals business of the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB, carried out by RB Global When recognizing the share capital issued, the Company has Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings.
applied the provisions for merger relief under s. 612 of the Companies Act.
Accordingly, no premium has been recognized on The Company was incorporated and domiciled in the United the shares issued by the Company.
Kingdom on September 26, 2014 in connection with the demerger and is the holding company for the Group.
The Financial Statements include expense allocations for certain functions provided to the Group during the period before the The Indivior Business was demerged from RB on December 23, demerger from RB, including, but not limited to, general corporate 2014.
Upon demerger, each RB shareholder received one ordinary expenses related to finance, legal, tax, treasury, information share in the Company for each ordinary share in RB that they held technology, human resources, communications, employee benefits at the time of the demerger.
The Company received in return 100% and incentives, insurance and share-based compensation.
These of the share capital of RB Global Holdings Limited.
costs have historically been allocated to the Group.
The Financial The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Statements also include a portion of RBs costs relating to RBs these Financial Statements are set out below.
Unless otherwise operations as a public company, which historically were not stated, these policies have been consistently applied to all the allocated to the Group.
RB had allocated these general corporate years presented.
expenses to the Group on the basis of direct usage when identifiable, with the remainder allocated on a pro-rata basis of revenues, operating profit, headcount or other measures of the Company and RB.
These costs are included within administrative 2.
Basis of preparation and changes expenses in the consolidated income statements.
Both Indivior in accounting policy and RB consider the basis on which the expenses have been The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in allocated to reasonably reflect the utilization of services provided accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to or the benefit received by the Group during the periods and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations as presented.
To the extent that no charge was made by RB for the adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 the services provided, the expenses incurred by RB represent an Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These Financial increase in the former owners investment in the Group that is, Statements have been prepared under the historical cost in substance, a capital contribution and accordingly have been convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial reflected as such in the Financial Statements.
assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Historically, RB performed cash management functions for the whole of RB, including the Indivior Business.
This included certain The Financial Statements are presented in US$.
cash pooling activities which resulted in the transfer of excess cash to RB.
Such transfers of cash to RB have been recorded in The introduction of Indivior PLC as the new ultimate holding equity as a reduction in the former owners investment in the company of the Group does not meet the IFRS 3 definition of a Group that is, in substance, a distribution.
business combination and as such falls outside the scope of that standard.
Following the guidance regarding the selection of an The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for appropriate accounting policy in IAS 8, the introduction of the accounting in preparing these Financial Statements.
The Directors Company as the new ultimate holding company of the Group has have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate been accounted for as a group reconstruction using merger resources to continue in operational existence for the accounting principles.
This policy, which does not conflict with foreseeable future.
IFRS, reflects the economic substance of the transaction.
This means that although the reorganization did not become effective The Group applies, for the first time, amendments to IAS 32 until December 23, 2014, the consolidated Financial Statements are Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting financial assets presented as if the current Group structure had always been in and financial liabilities, IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition place.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the entire year and measurement Novation of derivatives and continuation of ended December 31, 2014 and the comparative period are hedge accounting and IFRIC 21 Levies.
The new standards have presented as if the Group had been in existence throughout the not impacted the reported results or position of the Group.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 71 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Foreign currency translation 2.
Basis of preparation and changes in Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups accounting policy continued entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Comparative financial information environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
For the periods prior to the pre-demerger re-organization, The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, consolidated Financial Statements were not prepared for the which is the Groups presentation currency.
The accompanying consolidated Financial Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Statements present the results of the Company and its subsidiaries currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the as if the Indivior Group had been in existence throughout the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from period presented and as if the pre-demerger re-organization had the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the occurred as at January 1, 2013. translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and New accounting requirements liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
The IASB has The exchange rates used for the translation of currencies into issued a new standard for the recognition of revenue.
This will US dollars that have the most significant impact on the Group replace IAS 18 which covers contracts for goods and services.
The results were: new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognized 2014 2013 when control of a good or service transfers to a customer so the GBP year-end exchange rate 1.5577 1.6557 notion of control replaces the existing notion of risks and rewards.
GBP average exchange rate 1.6476 1.5649 Management has considered the impact of the new rules on its revenue recognition policies, and they will have little, if any effect The financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are on the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
A more detailed translated into US dollars on the following basis: assessment will be performed in the near future.
Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the Management is in the process of assessing the impact of the year-end date.
revised issuance of IFRS 9 Financial instruments, which will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018.
Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Basis of consolidation Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net The consolidated Financial Statements include the results of the investment in foreign entities, borrowings and other currency Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to the instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken same accounting date.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities to equity and recognized in the statement of comprehensive controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group is exposed income on consolidation.
to, or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized income and expenses on transactions between Group companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries have year-ends which are co-terminus with the Groups.
Subsidiaries accounting policies have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
72 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Impairment of assets 2.
Basis of preparation and changes in The Company assesses impairment of non-financial assets at accounting policy continued each reporting date by evaluating conditions specific to the Company and to the particular asset that may lead to impairment.
Accounting estimates and Judgments If an impairment trigger exists, the recoverable amount of the The Directors make a number of estimates and assumptions asset is determined.
This involves fair value less costs to sell or regarding the future, and make some significant judgments in value-in-use calculations, which incorporate a number of key applying the Groups accounting policies.
These estimates and estimates and assumptions.
assumptions may affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the Provisions for legal claims reported amounts of revenues and expenses.
Although these The Company may be involved in litigation, arbitration or other estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the legal proceedings.
These proceedings typically are related to amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ product liability claims, intellectual property rights, compliance from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in and trade practices, commercial claims, employment and wrongful the Financial Statements are set out below.
discharge claims and tax assessment claims.
Provisions for returns, discounts, incentives and rebates Provisions are estimated on the basis of events and circumstances The Company offers various types of price reductions on its related to present obligations at the statement of financial products.
In particular, products sold in the United States are position date, of past experience, and to the best of managements covered by various programs such as Medicare and Medicaid knowledge at the date of preparation of the Financial Statements.
under which products are sold at a discount.
Rebates are The assessment of provisions can involve a series of complex granted to healthcare authorities, and under contractual judgments about future events and can rely heavily on estimates arrangements with certain customers.
Some wholesalers are and assumptions.
Given the inherent uncertainties related to entitled to chargeback incentives based on the selling price to these estimates and assumptions, the actual outflows resulting the end customer, under specific contractual arrangements.
from the realization of those risks could differ from the Cash discounts may also be granted for prompt payment.
The discounts, incentives and rebates described above are estimated on the basis of specific contractual arrangements with customers or of specific terms of the relevant regulations and or agreements applicable for transactions with healthcare authorities, and of assumptions about the attainment of sales targets.
They are recognized in the period in which the underlying sales are recognized, as a reduction of sales revenue.
The Company also estimates the amount of product returns, on the basis of contractual sales terms and reliable historical data: the same recognition principles apply to sales returns.
Income taxes Judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate tax treatment is uncertain.
The Company recognizes liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
For more details of income taxes see Note 8 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 73
