Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Contingent liabilities The Group is currently subject to other legal proceedings and investigations, including through subpoenas and other information requests, by various governmental authorities.
In 2011, the USAO-NJ issued a subpoena to Reckitt Benckiser Pharmaceuticals Inc. RBP requesting production of certain documents in connection with a non-public investigation related, among other things, to the promotion, marketing and sale of Suboxone Film, Suboxone Tablet and Subutex Tablet.
RBP responded to the USAO-NJ by producing documents and other information and has had no communication from USAO-NJ since March 2013.
In late 2012, the FTC and the Attorney General of the State of New York commenced non-public investigations of RB, RBP and various other entities in the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc focusing on business practices relating to Suboxone Film, Suboxone Tablet and Subutex Tablet, including alleged involvement in a scheme to delay FDA approval of generic versions of Subutex Tablet.
RBP has responded to both the FTC and to the Attorney General of the State of New York by producing documents and other information.
The investigations are ongoing, and as yet no decision has been made by either agency on whether to pursue any legal action for enforcement.
In December 2013, the USAO-VAW executed a search warrant on RBPs headquarters in Richmond and conducted searches of the homes of four field-based employees.
The USAO-VAW has since served a number of subpoenas relating to Suboxone Film, Subutex Tablet, buprenorphine and any real or potential competitor, among other issues.
The investigation is ongoing and RBP is in the process of responding to the USAO-VAW by producing documents and other information.
Given the limited information available to the Group regarding the foregoing civil and criminal investigations, it is not possible at this time to predict with any certainty if there will be a liability associated with these investigations nor, if one were to occur, is there an ability to quantify the potential impact on the Financial Statements of the Group.
Trade and other payables 2014 2013 $m $m Sales returns and rebates 273 305 Trade payables 29 54 Other payables 1 Other tax and social security payable 7 4 Accruals 73 71 383 434 Customer return and rebate accruals, primarily in the US, are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable to customers.
Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale.
As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the channel e. g. Medicaid, Medicare, Managed Care, etc and product mix.
The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any changes in arrangements.
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
The carrying amounts of total trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2014 2013 $m $m Sterling 41 31 US dollar 314 383 Other currencies 28 20 383 434 90 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
