Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Indivior PLC Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Indivior PLCs Group Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Indivior PLCs Financial Statements comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group income statement for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: $28 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope In addition to centralised Group audit procedures, we conducted our audit by concentrating our work on those parts of the Group that make up the most significant proportions of the Financial Statements.
With the largest component of the Group being the US we focused operational-level procedures here.
We utilised our Richmond, Virginia based team with knowledge and experience of the US pharmaceuticals industry and regulations.
These US procedures were supplemented by procedures performed on certain UK and European operations by PwC staff based in England.
Areas of focus Significant judgments and estimates in sales rebates, discounts and returns adjustments recognised primarily in the US pharmaceuticals business.
Risk of misstatement relating to on-going legal claims and regulatory investigations and claims and the related provisions.
62 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
