Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report Parent Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Indivior PLC Adequacy of accounting records and information and Report on the Parent Company financial statements explanations received Our opinion Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report In our opinion, Indivior PLCs Parent Company financial statements to you if, in our opinion: the financial statements : we have not received all the information and explanations give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys we require for our audit: or affairs as at 31 December 2014: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and not been received from branches not visited by us: or have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the the financial statements and the part of the Directors Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited Indivior PLCs financial statements comprise: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2014: and Directors remuneration the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable law Responsibilities for the financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors Other required reporting As explained more fully in the Directors Statement of Responsibilities set out on page 47, the Directors are Consistency of other information responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Companies Act 2006 opinions and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the which the financial statements are prepared is consistent financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs with the financial statements.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume materially inconsistent with the information in the audited responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to financial statements: or whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
94 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial Statements Parent Company Independent Auditors Report What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK and Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Indivior PLC for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Simon Friend Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 27 March 2015 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 95
