Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report In total our audit scope consisted of eight full-scope audits out of 39 reporting units, with specific audit procedures on a further two reporting units.
With all audit procedures combined together our audit scope addressed 87% of the Groups net revenues and 83% of the Groups operating profit before tax.
The Indivior Group operates a single business activity and therefore operates as one reportable segment.
The Group Financial Statements are a consolidation of reporting units comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised Group functions.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality $28m How we determined it 5% of profit before tax Rationale for benchmark applied We have applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, in the absence of indicators that an alternative benchmark would be appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.4m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors Statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors Statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information Companies Act 2006 opinions In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 41 to 46 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Statements.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 47, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK We have no exceptions to report Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole arising from this responsibility.
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the section of the Annual Report on pages 44 to 45, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters arising from this responsibility.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 65
