Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Indivior PLC Report on the Group Financial Statements Our opinion In our opinion, Indivior PLCs Group Financial Statements the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Indivior PLCs Financial Statements comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2014: the Group income statement for the year then ended: the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended: the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall group materiality: $28 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
Audit scope In addition to centralised Group audit procedures, we conducted our audit by concentrating our work on those parts of the Group that make up the most significant proportions of the Financial Statements.
With the largest component of the Group being the US we focused operational-level procedures here.
We utilised our Richmond, Virginia based team with knowledge and experience of the US pharmaceuticals industry and regulations.
These US procedures were supplemented by procedures performed on certain UK and European operations by PwC staff based in England.
Areas of focus Significant judgments and estimates in sales rebates, discounts and returns adjustments recognised primarily in the US pharmaceuticals business.
Risk of misstatement relating to on-going legal claims and regulatory investigations and claims and the related provisions.
62 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgments, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Significant judgments and estimates in sales rebates, discounts We obtained calculations of the accruals for sales rebates and and returns adjustments recognised primarily in the US discounts and sales returns and tested the inputs into the accrual Pharmaceuticals business refer to Note 21 calculations by comparing them with: In the US, the Group sells products through distributors and the rates included in sales contracts and agreements with third ultimate selling price is determined based on the contractual parties: and arrangements that the Group has with the patients insurer or other rebate invoices received after the year-end, in order to assess payment programme Medicaid, Medicare or equivalent scheme.
the accuracy of the Directors forecast sales volumes.
The time between initial shipment to the distributor when the We performed look-back tests that compared accruals recognised revenue is recognised and the dispensing of a product to a patient in previous years to actual rebates, discounts or returns received may be up to several months.
Accordingly, an estimate of the selling in order to test the Directors historical accuracy in calculating price is necessary at the date of shipment.
Based on this analysis, we found the Directors As a result, revenue recognised on sales to wholesale and retail assumptions to be balanced.
distributors is subject to final determination of the sales price We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the accruals by in the form of rebates and discounts in addition to sales returns.
understanding and testing the process management used to record The process for determining the size of these estimates is complex the year-end balances, including by comparing such amounts to and depends on contract terms and regulation, as well as forecasts our own independently developed expectations of the year-end of sales volumes by channel.
Our independent expectations were developed based Our testing focused on the accruals for both sales rebates upon historic rebate invoices received, adjusted for current volumes and discounts and sales returns recognised at the year-end.
and rebate rates and for sales returns and adjusted for industry We focused on this area, as the process for calculating sales rebates experience in the face of competition.
The accruals recognised in and discounts and return accruals involves large volumes of data the Financial Statements were not materially different from our using sales volumes and multiple discount sources, which, taken internally generated expectation.
together, can be subjective and at risk of management manipulation In determining the appropriateness of the revenue recognition or bias.
Given the large quantities of data involved in compiling policy applied by the Directors in calculating sales rebates and these calculations we considered there to be a risk of bias in the discounts and sales returns under contractual and regulatory calculations and that this risk related to the understatement of requirements, there is room for judgement and we found that these accruals.
within that, the directors judgement was within an acceptable We also evaluated whether appropriate revenue recognition policies range and that the policies applied were consistent with IFRSs were consistent with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
as adopted by the European Union.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 63 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Risk of misstatement relating to ongoing legal claims and We discussed all actual or pending legal or regulatory claims regulatory investigations and claims and the related provisions with the Groups internal legal counsel to gain an understanding refer to Notes 18 and 20 of the status of each case.
The pharmaceutical industry is a highly regulated industry.
Where provisions had been booked in the Group Financial Since 80% of the Group operates in the US, compliance is required Statements, we substantively tested the amount provided, by using with the US regulatory requirements, including those of US Food documentation such as correspondence with external legal counsel, and Drug Administration.
The Group is engaged in a number of independent confirmations that we received from the Groups on-going litigations and investigations, which may have a material external legal counsel, or penalties awarded and costs incurred impact on the Group Financial Statements.
for other similar completed legal or regulatory cases, to form our own expectation of the likely outcome and comparing that to the We focused on this area because the outcome of claims is provision.
Our testing did not identify any material misstatements uncertain and the positions taken by the Directors are based on in the provision booked.
the application of material judgement and estimation.
Accordingly, should the outcomes of the regulatory investigations differ from For certain on-going regulatory investigations where no claim had those anticipated by the Directors, this could materially impact been brought against the Group at 31 December 2014, we met with the Group Financial Statements.
external legal counsel about the matters and extent of their work to determine whether it was sufficient to support their conclusions At December 31, 2014, the Group held provisions of $41m in respect that there have been no illegal acts.
We used our own accumulated of actual legal claims brought against the Group and disclosures knowledge from working with clients in the pharmaceutical industry have been made in Note 18 in relation these provisions recognised, operating in the US to challenge whether the external legal counsel as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities in Note 20 relating had not omitted any relevant factors when drawing their conclusion to on-going regulatory investigations where no claim has been as of that time and did not identify any that they had.
In addition, brought at the balance sheet date.
we considered the completeness of legal and regulatory matters through open discussions with internal legal counsel and by reading Company Board minutes, without identifying any other legal matters that had not already been disclosed to us.
Furthermore, we obtained representation from management that they are unaware of any illegal acts.
Finally, we checked the disclosures relating to legal and regulatory matters in the Financial Statements back to our underlying work.
We found that the disclosures in Notes 18 and 20 were in accordance with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Uncertain tax positions Using our US and UK, international tax and transfer pricing knowledge, we evaluated and challenged the Directors judgments Indivior operates in a multinational tax environment and the tax in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order charge on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and to assess the adequacy of Indiviors tax provisions.
regulations, including those relating to transfer pricing.
In addition from time to time Indivior enters into transactions with complicated In understanding and evaluating the Directors judgments, we accounting and tax consequences.
Where the effect of these considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits tax laws and regulations is unclear, judgments are used in and enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, recent developments determining the liability for tax to be paid.
in tax legislation, reading relevant correspondence, judgemental positions taken in tax returns and current year estimates and other For a multinational Company, tax audits can be ongoing in a number developments in the tax environment.
We tested tax calculations of jurisdictions at any point in time and tax returns are subject to and challenged the Groups transfer pricing arrangements by possible challenge in most locations in which Indivior operates.
assessing the methodology used against third-party studies and our own knowledge and experience, and tax planning activities to Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required assess the reasonableness of the provisions recorded.
in respect of uncertain tax positions.
From the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of Indiviors Financial Statements taken as a whole.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed sufficient work to be able to give an opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
As noted above under Overview we worked closely with our US-based team in Richmond, Virginia, as the US operation is the largest component in the Group.
64 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
