Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Segment information Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer CEO.
As the Group is engaged in a single business activity, which is the development, manufacture and sale of prescription drugs that are based on buprenorphine for treatment of opioid dependence, the CEO reviews financial information presented on a combined basis for evaluating financial performance and allocating resources.
Accordingly, the Company reports as a single reporting segment.
Revenues Accounting policy Revenue arising from the sale of goods is presented in the consolidated income statement under net revenues.
Net revenues comprise revenue from sales of pharmaceutical products, net of sales returns, of customer incentives and discounts, and of certain sales-based payments paid or payable to the healthcare authorities.
Revenue is recognized when all of the following conditions have been met: the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer at the point of delivery, usually when title passes to the customer either on shipment or on receipt of goods depending on local trading terms: the Company no longer has effective control over the goods sold: the amount of revenue and costs associated with the transaction can be measured reliably: and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Company, in accordance with IAS 18.
Returns, discounts, incentives and rebates are estimated and recognized in the period in which the underlying sales are recognized as a reduction of sales revenue.
These amounts are calculated as follows: Provisions for rebates based on attainment of sales targets are estimated and accrued as each of the underlying sales transactions is recognized.
Provisions for price reductions under government and state programs, largely in the US, are estimated on the basis of the specific terms of the relevant regulations and agreements, and accrued as each of the underlying sales transactions is recognized.
Provisions for sales returns are calculated on the basis of managements best estimate of the amount of product that will ultimately be returned by customers.
In countries where product returns are possible, the Company has implemented a returns policy that allows the customer to return products within a certain period either side of the expiry date usually three months before and six months after the expiry date.
The provision is estimated on the basis of past experience of sales returns.
The Company also takes account of factors such as levels of inventory in its various distribution channels, product expiry dates, information about potential discontinuation of products and the entry of competing generics into the market.
In each case, the provisions are subject to continuous review and adjustment as appropriate based on the most recent information available to management.
The Company believes that it has the ability to measure each of the above provisions reliably, using the following factors in developing its estimates: the nature and patient profile of the underlying product: the applicable regulations and or the specific terms and conditions of contracts with governmental authorities, wholesalers and other customers: historical data relating to similar contracts, in the case of qualitative and quantitative rebates and chargeback incentives: past experience and sales growth trends: actual inventory levels in distribution channels, monitored by the Company using internal sales data and externally provided data: the shelf life of the Companys products: and market trends including competition, pricing and demand.
There may be adjustments to the provisions when the actual rebates are invoiced based on utilization information submitted to the Company in the case of provisions for rebates related to sales targets or contractual rebates and claims invoices received in the case of regulatory rebates and chargebacks.
Management believes that the estimates made are reasonable: however such estimates involve judgments on aggregate future sales levels, distribution channel mix, distributors sales performance and market competition.
74 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
