Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Financial instruments and risk management The Groups financial assets and liabilities include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables as set out in Notes 16, 14 and 21 respectively.
The carrying value less impairment provision of current borrowings, cash at bank, trade receivables and trade payables are assumed to approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature.
Financial risk management of the Group is mainly exercised and monitored at group level.
The Groups financing and financial risk management activities are centralized into the newly formed Global Treasury Group GTG to achieve benefits of scale and control with the ultimate goal of maximizing the Companys liquidity and mitigating its operational and financial risks.
GTG manages financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
GTG manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
GTG operates under the close control of the CFO and will be subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
Foreign exchange risk management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to align the interest costs and operating profit of its major currencies in order to provide some protection against the translation exposure on foreign currency profits after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings and other hedging methods in the currencies of the countries where most of its assets are located.
Capital risk management The Group considers capital to be net debt plus total equity.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, short-term available-for-sale financial assets and financing derivative financial instruments refer to Note 17.
Total equity includes share capital, reserves and retained earnings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
2014 2013 Note $m $m Net debt 17 405 7 Total equity 475 66 880 59 The objectives for managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for Shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to optimize the cost of capital.
The Group monitors net debt which at year-end amounted to net debt of $405m 2013: $7m.
The Group seeks to pay down net debt using cash generated by the business to maintain an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Cash and cash equivalents Accounting policy Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments with maturities of less than three months.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings in the balance sheet.
2014 2013 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 331 7 331 7 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87
