Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Segment information continued Revenues are attributed to countries based on the country where the sale originates.
The following table represents revenue from continuing operations attributed to countries based on the country where the sale originates and non-current assets, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by country.
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Revenue from Non-current sale of goods assets January 1 December 31, 2014 $m $m United States 855 66 Rest of World 260 38 Total 1,115 104 January 1 December 31, 2013 $m $m United States 950 50 Rest of World 266 57 Total 1,216 107 Significant customers Revenues include amounts derived from significant customers that amount to 10% or more of the Companys revenues as follows in percentages of total revenue : 2014 2013 Customer % % Customer A 22% 24% Customer B 28% 28% Customer C 19% 18% 4.
Operating costs and expenses Accounting policies Research and Development Research expenditure on internal activities is charged to the consolidated statement of income in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred, unless the following criteria are met: It must be technically feasible to complete the development project or intangible asset so that the related product will be available for use or sale: There is an intention to complete the intangible asset or development project and use or sell it: The Company has the ability to use the intangible asset or to sell it: The way in which the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits: The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell the intangible asset: and Expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development is able to be reliably measured.
Amounts capitalized are amortized over the useful life of the developed product.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Companys development activities is recognized only if the following conditions are met: An asset is created that can be identified: It is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and The development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
The Company has determined that filing for regulatory approval is the earliest point at which the probable threshold can be achieved.
All development expenditure incurred prior to filing for regulatory approval is therefore expensed as incurred.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 75
