Financial Statements Notes to the parent Company Financial Statements Notes to the parent Company Financial Statements 1.
Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act and applicable UK accounting standards.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise stated.
As permitted by s408 of the Act 2006, no profit and loss account is presented for Indivior PLC.
Foreign currency translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
Taxation The tax charge credit is based on the result for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
A net deferred tax asset is considered recoverable if it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Cash in bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand includes cash held in bank accounts.
Cash flow statement Indivior PLC has presented a Group cash flow statement in its 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements, therefore as permitted by IFRS 1 revised 1996, Cash Flow Statements, the Directors have not prepared a cash flow statement for the Company.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 97
