Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Employees Accounting policies Employee benefits Short-term obligations Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the period in which the employees render the related service, are recognized in respect of employees services up to the end of the reporting period and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
The liability for annual leave and accumulating sick leave is recognized in the provision for employee benefits.
All other short-term employee benefits are presented as payables.
Post-retirement benefits other than pensions Some Group companies provide post-retirement medical care to their retirees.
The costs of providing these benefits are accrued over the period of employment and the liability recognized in the balance sheet is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related asset is deducted.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the income statement over the same period with the credit included in payables.
Employee share schemes Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and restricted share award schemes.
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their grant dates and any shortfall between the cost to the employee and the fair market value are charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods, with the credit taken directly to retained earnings.
The fair value at grant date is determined using a pricing model that takes into account the exercise price, the term of the award, the vesting and performance criteria, the impact of dilution, the non-tradable nature of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected dividend yield and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award.
The fair value of the awards excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimate of the number of awards that are expected to become exercisable.
The employee benefit expense recognized each period takes into account the most recent estimate.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital and share premium when the options are exercised.
Pension commitments Some Group companies operate defined contribution and funded and unfunded defined benefit pension schemes.
The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of defined contribution schemes is charged to the income statement as contributions are made.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The liability or surplus recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of the plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows by the yield on high-quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have a maturity approximating to the terms of the pension obligations.
The costs of providing these defined benefit schemes are accrued over the period of employment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in other comprehensive income.
Past-service costs are recognized immediately in the income statement.
The net interest amount is calculated by applying the discounted rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability asset.
The net pension scheme interest is presented as finance income expense.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: a when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of these benefits: or b when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is detailed in a formal plan that involves the payment of termination benefits and has, at a minimum, been announced to employees.
In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 77
