05 174 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 175 05 Additional information for shareholders Major shareholdings b on a poll every member has one vote per share held by him and he may vote in person or by one or more proxies.
As at 31 March 2014, the Company has been notified, in accordance with DTR 5.1.
2R, of the following percentage Where he appoints more than one proxy, the proxies appointed by him taken together shall not have more extensive interests of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company, as shown in the table below: voting rights than he could exercise in person.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by Entity Number of shares Percentage Nature of holding the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Wealth Nominees Limited 205,667,740 68.56 Nominee holding for Monterey Capital II S.. r. l. No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum At date of disclosure by the relevant entity then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interests of the shareholders listed above may have increased required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006. or decreased.
Employees are able to exercise their voting rights on shares held under the Replacement LTIP through the nominee, No changes have been disclosed in accordance with DTR 5.1.
2R in the period between 31 March 2014 and 18 June 2014.
Infinis Energy Services Limited, who holds such shares on bare trust for those employees.
Articles of Association Dividends and other distributions The following description summarises certain provisions of the Articles and applicable English law concerning Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not companies, specifically the Companies Act 2006, in each case as at 18 June 2014.
This summary is qualified in its exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the Board may pay interim entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Articles.
The description also refers to the Underwriting Agreement dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, and the Relationship Agreement.
The latest copy of the Articles can be found on the Groups website at www.
Any amendment to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, by way of The Articles provide that the Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater holding, in number or nominal value, of the shares of the Company or of any class of such shares in each case, calculated exclusive of any shares held as treasury Share capital shares if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the The Company has a single class of share capital of 3,000,000 divided into 300,000,000 ordinary shares, which were Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006. admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 20 November 2013.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company, offer ordinary shareholders excluding any member holding shares as treasury shares in respect of any dividend, the right to elect to receive ordinary shares by Rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares way of scrip dividend instead of cash.
Each ordinary share ranks equally in all respects with each other ordinary share, and has the same rights including voting and dividend rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as each other ordinary share, as set out in Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date when it was declared or became due for payment shall the Articles.
The ordinary shares rank in full for all dividends and distributions on ordinary shares of the Company be forfeited and revert to the Company.
declared, made or paid after their issue.
Shareholders have the right to receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, The Company may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in charges, encumbrances and other interests.
respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means of payment, including payment by means of a relevant system, for dividends if either i at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned Further information on the rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares is set out below.
The full rights are set undelivered or that means of payment has failed or ii one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or out in the Articles.
that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
The Company may resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or Voting rights employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Members will be entitled to vote at a general meeting or class meeting whether on a show of hands or a poll.
The Articles provide that a resolution put to the vote of the general meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a Variation of rights poll is demanded.
The Companies Act 2006 provides that: Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any a on a show of hands every member present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the appointed by one or more members will have one vote, except that a proxy has one vote for and one vote against if holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be the proxy has been duly appointed by more than one member and the proxy has been instructed by one or more two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class members to vote for and by one or more other members to vote against.
For this purpose the Articles provide that, calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares or by the purchase or redemption by the Company of any of where a proxy is given discretion as to how to vote on a show of hands, this will be treated as an instruction by the its own shares.
relevant member to vote in the way that the proxy decides to exercise that discretion: and The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
05 176 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 177 05 Additional information for shareholders Transfer of shares resolves that his or her office be vacated: iv he or she is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may decline to register any transfer of a resolves that his or her office is vacated: v he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors certificated share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the generally: vi he or she is prohibited by a law from being a Director: vii he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is left at the office, or such other place as the Board may the Companies Act 2006: or viii he or she is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
decide, for registration and accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: b is in respect of only one class of share: and c if to joint transferees, is The Principal Shareholder has the following contractual rights to appoint Nominee Directors: in favour of not more than four such transferees.
a f or so long as the Principal Shareholder holds a Controlling Interest, the Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all appoint no more than two Directors of the Company subject to the independence requirements pursuant to the or any of his or her uncertificated shares by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply to any Code : and uncertificated shares to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with the holding of shares in uncertificated form, with the transfer of shares by means of a relevant system, with any provision of the legislation and rules relating to b for so long as the Principal Shareholder holds a Relevant Interest but not a Controlling Interest, the Principal uncertificated shares or with the Company doing anything by means of a relevant system.
Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint no more than one Director and one observer of the Board such observer previously having been a Director of the Company.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint Distribution policy holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
As stated in the Prospectus: The Board may decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
a the Directors believe that the Groups high operating margins and strong cash generation provide a solid foundation for sustainable dividends.
Therefore, the Directors have adopted a progressive dividend policy, targeting a dividend Each of the Directors has agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of 365 days from the date of the growth at least in line with inflation: Underwriting Agreement being 4 November 2013, they will not, without the prior written consent of the Joint Global Co ordinators who acted on the Listing, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise dispose of, any ordinary shares.
b for the financial year ending 31 March 2014, Infinis has declared a dividend equivalent to an annual dividend of 55 million adjusted on a pro rata basis for the period from Admission to 31 March 2014: Powers of the Directors Subject to applicable law and the Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special c for the year ended 31 March 2015, Infinis intends to declare a dividend to shareholders of 55 million representing resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the approximately 18.3 pence per ordinary share : and Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares.
d thereafter, Infinis intends to pay dividends twice yearly in July and November, with the approximate proportion of one third and two thirds, respectively, of the dividend for the relevant year.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Subject to the Articles, Directors may be appointed by the Company, by ordinary resolution following nomination by the The Groups dividend policy is only a target and not a forecast nor a profit forecast and therefore there can be no Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director assurance that such target can or will be met.
The Group may revise its dividend policy from time to time.
chooses to seek re-election at an AGM.
In addition the Board may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director provided that he or she holds office only until the next following AGM of the Company when he or she will be Power of Directors to issue shares eligible for re-appointment.
The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to allot new shares.
This authority can be granted for a period of five years.
However, we will follow best practice and seek shareholder approval annually.
It will be proposed at The Board, or any committee authorised by the Board, may, from time to time, appoint one or more Directors to hold the First AGM that the Directors be granted authority to allot new shares.
any employment or executive office for such period, and on such terms, as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Authority to purchase own shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to purchase the Companys own shares.
Accordingly, at Under the Articles, at every AGM of the Company any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last the First AGM, the Directors will seek authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% of issued share AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has capital.
At the present time, the Company has no plans to exercise this authority.
held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary shares during the financial year ended 31 March 2014.
It should also be noted that, notwithstanding the terms of the Articles, it is the Companys policy that all of the Directors shall stand for annual re-election at every AGM in accordance with the Code.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns: or he or she offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii he or she is removed by notice given by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he or she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the Board
