04 82 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 83 04 Corporate governance report Introduction and compliance with How the Board operates being independent as they are the UK Corporate Governance Code Structure and role of the Board both directors of TFCPL and were New governance arrangements were The Board is structured to ensure nominated by, and represent, the adopted by the Company at the time effective management, control Principal Shareholder.
of the IPO to enable compliance with and direction of the Group, the requirements of the Code.
Prior providing entrepreneurial leadership, The Board is committed to the to the IPO the ICL Board, the Groups determining the Groups values highest standards of corporate previous governance company, was and standards and ensuring that governance and maintaining a committed to achieving high and its obligations to its shareholders sound framework for the control relevant standards of corporate and stakeholders are understood and management of the business.
governance and complied with many and met.
Upon Admission the Board formally The Board has an appropriate adopted a schedule of matters During the period since Admission to balance of an Independent Nonreserved for its decision and the date of this report, we have executive Chairman, four these include: complied with the provisions of the Independent Non-executive Code in full, save in relation to the Directors, two Non-executive Group strategy, structure period to 26 March 2014 during which Directors and two Executive and capital: time less than half the Board Directors.
The names and biographies excluding the Chairman were of these Directors can be found in the annual budget: Independent Non-executive Board of Directors section on pages Directors.
The Directors have a wide and financial reporting and controls was announced at Admission and our current range of financial, corporate, and shareholder communications: search for an additional Independent risk, policy-making and sector Non-executive Director was experience and knowledge, which system of internal control and completed on 27 March 2014 when enables the Board and its committees risk management: we announced the appointment of to discharge their duties and Baroness Sally Morgan, thus effecting responsibilities effectively.
major capital projects, contracts, compliance with provision B.
1.2 of the acquisitions or investments: and Code.
The Board took the view that The Board keeps its membership, and this initial non-compliance was that of its committees, under review, corporate governance.
justified, as it was important to select to ensure that an acceptable balance the right candidate for the position, is maintained and that the collective This schedule of matters reserved with the requisite skills, experience, skills and experience of its members will be reviewed on an annual basis independence and knowledge to continue to be refreshed.
It is and is available via our website complement the existing Board.
satisfied that all Directors have www.
The Board also sufficient time to devote to their roles delegates matters to Board The Code is published by the FRC and that undue reliance is not placed committees.
and can be found on the FRCs on any one individual.
Day-to-day management of the The Board determines whether business is delegated to the CEO and Non-executive Directors are the Executive Management Team, independent.
The Chairman satisfied whose performance is assessed by the independence test on his the Board.
Alan Bryce, Chris Cole, Ray King and Baroness Sally Morgan are all considered by the Board to be independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board does not regard Mike Kinski and Radu Gruescu as 04 84 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 85 04 Corporate governance report continued determining appropriate levels of The Principal Shareholder has Any term beyond six years for a remuneration of Executive Directors contractual rights to appoint Non-executive Director will be and have a prime role in appointing Nominee Directors which are set out subject to particularly rigorous review and, where necessary, removing in the additional information for by the Nomination Committee, taking Executive Directors, and in shareholders section on page 177. into account the need for continual succession planning.
The current Nominee Directors are refreshment of the Board.
Radu Gruescu and Mike Kinski.
Company Secretary Damian Darragh was a Nominee Induction, business awareness and The Group Company Secretary, Director until 7 February 2014 and professional development Samantha Calder, is a solicitor and a was replaced by Radu Gruescu on To ensure a full understanding of the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered that date.
business and their responsibilities, Secretaries and Administrators.
The new Board members undergo a full, Company Secretary ensures good The Non-executive Directors letters formal and tailored induction information flows within the Board of appointment are available for programme upon appointment.
Key Board roles He ensures that shareholder views The CEO There is a clear division of are discussed at Board meetings and The CEO is responsible for running and its committees and between public inspection.
Tailored and appropriate induction is senior management and Nonalso provided for Directors when responsibilities between the running that communication with shareholders the Groups business in close of the Board and the executive and other stakeholders is effective.
collaboration with, and with the executive Directors.
She facilitates The Articles provide that, at every joining Board committees.
The the induction of new Directors, assists AGM of the Company, any Director Directors who have joined the Board responsibility for the running of the support of, the rest of the Executive Companys business, with the roles Since Admission the Chairman has Management Team.
His role includes with professional development as who has been appointed by the since Admission Radu Gruescu and required, and ensures compliance Board since the last AGM shall retire Baroness Sally Morgan have received being carried out by the Chairman held one meeting with the Nonproviding leadership to the Executive and CEO, respectively.
The division of executive Directors without the Management Team in this respect, with Board procedures and from office and may offer themselves tailored inductions.
Radu Gruescu applicable rules and regulations.
for re-appointment by the members.
was a member of the ICL Board responsibilities between the Executives being present to assess developing proposals for the Board Chairman, the CEO and the Senior their views.
to consider in all areas reserved for its At the First AGM of the Company, all pre-IPO and has significant The Company Secretary is available of the Directors will be subject to knowledge of the business.
Therefore Independent Director are clearly judgment including the Groups defined in writing and available via The Senior Independent Director strategy and annual budget and to all Directors to provide advice and re-election.
It should also be noted Radus induction mainly comprised of assistance, as well as providing that, notwithstanding the terms of the receipt of information on the our website www.
com, The Senior Independent Director, implementing any Board-approved providing a system of checks and Chris Cole, is a point of contact for actions.
Short biographies of the governance advice to the Board.
the Articles, it is the Companys Companys corporate governance The appointment and removal of the policy that all of the Directors shall policies and procedures and balances in which no individual has those shareholders who wish to raise Executive Management Team are unfettered powers of decision.
issues with the Board, other than given under the Board and Company Secretary is a matter for stand for annual re-election at every Directors duties and responsibilities.
AGM in accordance with the Code.
Sallys induction has included receipt through the normal channels of the Governance section of this report on Chairman Chairman, the CEO or other Executive pages 7779. of the same information as Radu, Appointments and re-election to Each Non-executive Directors term together with briefing sessions by Ian Marchant, as Chairman, is Directors.
He also acts as a sounding members of the Executive responsible for leading and managing board for the Chairman and as a Non-executive Directors the Board of office runs for an initial one year Subject to the Articles, Directors may period.
The initial terms of the Management Team on key business the Board and ensuring it operates trusted intermediary for the other The Boards Non-executive Directors matters and a visit to our flagship effectively.
He promotes a culture of Directors when necessary.
The Senior have a range of experience, skills and be appointed by the Company by Non-executive Directors positions ordinary resolution or by the Board.
are subject to their re-election by the Brogborough landfill gas generation openness, encouraging all Board Independent Director will lead a backgrounds which enable them to site.
The members of the Board members to involve themselves in meeting of the Non-executive make a valuable contribution and A Director appointed by the Board shareholders at the First AGM and to provide independent judgment and holds office only until the next re-election at any subsequent AGM at with effect from IPO were also debate and apply sufficient Directors without the Chairman being provided with training and external challenge regarding major proposals, present in the next financial year to constructive challenge to the Board.
following AGM of the Company and which the Non-executive Directors They have key involvement with is then eligible for re-appointment.
The Nonlegal advice regarding their thus contributing to an effective appraise the Chairmans performance, obligations as Directors and decision making process.
He also at least annually thereafter, and setting strategy, scrutinising the executive Directors will be put performance of management in A Nomination Committee, comprising forward for re-election by corporate governance policies and fosters relationships between the on such other occasions as are procedures, to enable them to be Non-executive Directors and the deemed appropriate.
meeting agreed goals and objectives, the Independent Non-executive shareholders on an annual basis.
If and monitoring the reporting of Directors, ensures a formal, rigorous the shareholders of the Company do fully informed from Admission.
They satisfy themselves and transparent procedure for not re-elect any Non-executive on the integrity of financial appointing new Directors to the Director, his or her appointment will Directors are expected to regularly Ian leads the Boards consideration of update and refresh their skills and strategy and risk appetite and plays a information and that financial Board.
This Committee oversees the terminate automatically.
controls and systems of risk process for Board appointments knowledge, including their awareness key role in ensuring the highest of the Company and its business, in standards of corporate governance.
management are robust and and makes recommendations to the defensible.
They are responsible for Board.
Its work is described in more order to carry out their roles on the detail on page 99 of this report.
04 86 Section four Board and governance Annual report and accounts 2014 87 04 Corporate governance report continued Board and its committees.
The Board meeting agendas are planned on any resolution relating to their Director attendee Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration conflict, and can be excluded from Company supports the training needs by the Chairman, in consultation with Committee Committee of Directors by arranging site visits the CEO, the Company Secretary and the receipt of information, the involvement in the discussion and working sessions with other Board members, and with Ian Marchant Attendee Chairman Member operational managers and with reference to its annual Board surrounding the conflict, and be subject to such other terms as the internal and external experts and programme.
The Board receives Alan Bryce Member Member Member advisors.
The Chairman agrees with regular performance reports and Board may determine.
Additionally, the interests of new Directors are each Director their individual training periodic business reports from the Chris Cole Member Member Chairman and development needs as and when Executive Management Team.
Clear reviewed during the recruitment process and authorised if required.
The Non-executive and comprehensive supporting Ray King Chairman Member Member Directors have regular opportunities papers are issued in a timely fashion appropriate by the Board at the time of their appointment.
to meet, both formally and socially, approximately one week before a Baroness Sally Morgan Member Member Member and discuss matters with members of scheduled meeting, in a form and of a Two of the Directors, Radu Gruescu the Executive Management Team and quality that enables the Board to Mike Kinski Attendee other senior staff in the business: they discharge its duties effectively.
and Mike Kinski, were nominated by the Principal Shareholder as Nominee have continuous access to executive Radu Gruescu Attendee advice and support via an open door Directors have access to the services formulates plans for succession for Directors.
Under the terms of the both Executive and Non-executive Relationship Agreement, if it should arrangement.
of the Company Secretary and can Eric Machiels Attendee Attendee Attendee make enquiries of the Executive Directors and, in particular, for the be determined by the Board that key roles of the Chairman of the there is a conflict matter, the Principal Board meetings and procedure Management Team whenever Gordon Boyd Attendee The Board schedules meetings not required.
Directors can also take Board and the CEO.
A comprehensive Shareholder has agreed to ensure that succession plan will be formally the Nominee Directors will not be less than six times a year, with independent professional advice if additional meetings being convened they deem this to be necessary, at considered in the next financial year.
present or vote on a conflict matter at In the meantime, the Nomination any meeting of the Board or any The annual Board programme also Board and committee attendance where circumstances require for the Companys expense, subject to timely decision making on ad hoc due compliance with any procedures Committee has ensured that there is committee of the Board.
Furthermore, covers the work of each committee.
The table overleaf shows the number a process in place for the unless approved by the Board, the Minutes of meetings of the of meetings and Directors matters.
Between these meetings, laid down by the Company from time scheduled business updates for the to time.
replacement of the Operations Nominee Directors shall not be committees where appropriate are attendance at the Board, Audit Director, Stewart Gibbins, who plans entitled to receive any information made available to all Directors, and Committee, Nomination Committee Board also take place by telephone conference call if formal decision The Executive Management Team are to retire at the end of 2014. relating to a conflict matter and, if each committee Chairman reports to and Remuneration Committee they do so, they will not be entitled to the next scheduled Board meeting meetings from Admission to 31 March making is required.
From Admission all invited to attend Board meetings to 31 March 2014 the Board met five and generally do attend and Conflicts of interest communicate that information to the following a committee meeting.
2014, together with equivalent Directors have a statutory duty to Principal Shareholder unless The relevant committee Chairman information regarding the ICL Board times, of which four were scheduled participate in discussions.
Outside their meeting finds this helpful as part of its review avoid actual or potential conflicts of separately approved.
attends the annual general meeting and its committees prior to interest.
The Articles give the to answer any questions on the work Admission.
The numbers in brackets commitments, Non-executive and decision making process.
Directors regularly liaise with Directors the power to authorise All actual or potential conflicts of the committee.
represent the maximum number of conflicts of interest and set out the approved by the Board are recorded meetings that each Director was management to provide advice and Succession planning support, broaden their understanding The Board is ultimately responsible procedure, which the Board believes in an interests register, which is The Company Secretary acts as entitled to attend.
has operated effectively, by which reviewed bi-annually to ensure the secretary to all the committees.
of the business and keep abreast of for ensuring adequate succession developments.
This was a particular planning for the Board and senior situations giving rise to potential procedure is operating effectively Any non-attendance by Directors at conflicts are identified and authorised and to reassess authorisations.
The table above details the Company meetings was due to the focus after Admission in order for management so as to maintain an short-term nature of setting meeting Non-executive Directors to get to appropriate balance of skills and if appropriate.
Directors are membership of the committees required to declare to the Board the Committees of the Board established by the Board.
Full know the Executive Management experience within the Company and attendance by Directors at meetings Team and to learn more about the on the Board, and to ensure nature and extent of an interest in an As recommended in the Code, the progressive refreshing of the Board.
actual or potential conflict as soon as Board has delegated some of its A full discussion of the role, is normally expected.
Even if a Companys business and the Director is unable to attend a challenges it faces.
Directors powers and duties to the Audit operation, structure and composition The Nomination Committee gives full must provide sufficient detail about Committee, Nomination Committee of the Audit Committee, Nomination meeting, they will receive and review relevant papers and are encouraged consideration to succession planning the conflict for the Board to be able and Remuneration Committee.
Each Committee and Remuneration for Directors and other senior to consider the matter, if necessary.
committee operates under written Committee which act on behalf of the to give their views and comments on matters to be discussed to the executives in the course of its work, The Articles ensure that a Director terms of reference, approved by the Board can be found in the respective taking into account the challenges with a conflict of interest shall not Board, which are available on the committee reports on pages 92-121, relevant Chairman in advance of the meeting.
and opportunities facing the count towards the quorum nor vote Companys website www.
com which are incorporated into this Company, and the skills and expertise and which are reviewed annually by report by reference.
that will, therefore, be needed on the each committee and then by the Board.
