05 170 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 171 05 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 Basis of accounting 28.
Principal subsidiary undertakings The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
They have been prepared under the historic cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006 by providing Standards and law.
information only in relation to undertakings whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affected the financial statements.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below and have been applied consistently throughout the year.
A complete list of subsidiary undertakings will be attached to the next Infinis Energy plc annual return to As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and Companies House.
loss account for the year.
All of the principal subsidiary undertakings operate and were incorporated in England & Wales and are 100% owned The Company has taken the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash unless otherwise stated.
The voting rights are the same as the percentage holding.
Name Principal activity In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions Direct subsidiary or balances with wholly owned subsidiaries which form part of the Group.
Infinis Holdings Holding company Accounting policies Investments Indirect subsidiaries Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Infinis Capital Limited Intermediate holding company Tax Infinis Energy Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Novera Energy Holdings 2 Limited Intermediate holding company Infinis Wind Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as Infinis Wind Development Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company otherwise required by FRS 19.
Infinis Wind Development 1 Limited Intermediate holding company Infinis Wind Development 2 Limited Intermediate holding company Infinis Hydro Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company Infinis plc Operating company Infinis Re Gen Limited Operating company Costessey Energy Limited Operating company Novera Energy Generation No.
2 Limited Operating company Mayton Wood Energy Limited Operating company Blackborough End Energy Limited Operating company Gengas Limited Operating company Ardrossan Wind Farm Scotland Limited Operating company Blackstone Edge Wind Farm Limited Operating company Dalswinton Windfarm Scotland Limited Operating company Glenkerie Wind Farm Limited Operating company Gordonstown Hill Wind Farm Limited Operating company Hill of Fiddes Wind Farm Limited Operating company Lissett Airfield Wind Farm Limited Operating company Low Spinney Wind Farm Limited Operating company Infinis Holdings is an unlimited company
