05 138 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 139 05 Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 discount rate used for each reporting 3.
Accounting estimates non current assets.
Significant accounting Business combinations of the identifiable assets, liabilities operational reviews of the business, Business combinations involving and contingent liabilities.
and judgments policies management uses site profitability entities that are not under common as a financial indicator of control are accounted for by applying Goodwill is stated at cost less any An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of a In the process of applying the Groups potential impairment.
Property, plant and equipment the purchase method, and goodwill accumulated impairment.
Goodwill is accounting policies, management Property, plant and equipment is represents the difference between allocated to cash generating units CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are necessarily makes judgments and Once the need for a review of the stated at cost less accumulated the fair value of purchase CGUs and is not amortised but estimates that have a significant carrying value of an asset has been depreciation and impairment.
Cost consideration and the fair value of the tested annually for impairment.
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
effect on the values recognised in the determined, valuation requires includes expenditure that is directly net identifiable assets acquired.
Changes in the estimation techniques similar to those attributable to the acquisition of the Identifiable intangible assets are Other intangible assets are stated at Any impairment loss previously assumptions underlying these used for acquired assets and is asset.
The cost of self-constructed those which can be sold separately cost less accumulated amortisation judgments and estimates could result therefore subject to similar estimates assets includes the cost of materials or which arise from legal rights, and any impairment.
Other intangible recorded in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
For all other assets, an in a significant impact to the financial and judgments.
and direct labour, and any other costs regardless of whether those rights assets include the landfill gas reserve, statements.
The most critical of these directly attributable to bringing the are separable.
landfill gas generation rights, wind impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the CGUs carrying accounting judgments and estimates Capitalisation of development and asset to a working condition for its usage rights and hydro usage rights.
construction costs intended use, and attributable Contingent consideration is Details of the accounting estimates amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been When developing a potential site borrowing costs.
During the measured at fair value at the and judgments made in the valuation Valuation of LFG, wind and hydro for power plant construction, construction phase these assets acquisition date.
Subsequent changes of these assets are disclosed in note 3. determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss rights acquired estimates are required to establish are held separately and in the fair value of the contingent LFG, wind and hydro rights acquired the point at which the project is depreciation commences once consideration are recognised in profit Amortisation of intangible assets had been recognised.
are initially valued based on the net sufficiently certain to begin the asset is commissioned.
For those acquisitions that Amortisation of LFG reserves and present value of expected cash flows capitalising costs and, thereafter, occurred prior to 31 March 2010, LFG rights is provided on a straightThe Group forecasts CGU cash flows to the end of the CGUs useful life.
A number whether it remains appropriate to Depreciation is charged to the changes in the fair value of the line basis to allocate the cost of the of assumptions are made in arriving continue such capitalisation.
statement of comprehensive income contingent consideration is asset over its estimated useful life.
Impairment assessments for assets at such valuations which include price on a straight-line basis, with no recognised as an adjustment The Directors expect the maximum and, specifically for each technology: The decision to capitalise costs is residual value, over the estimated to the goodwill associated with useful life of these assets to extend to other than goodwill are considered at individual site level, which is initially determined by formal internal useful lives of each part of an item the transaction.
Wind rights are LFG method and uniformity of sign-off in line with delegated of property, plant and equipment.
amortised on a straight-line basis considered an appropriate CGU.
gas production, gas availability authorities for overseeing and Where a business combination over the lower of the lease term or 20 and methane content: managing the broad goals, strategies The estimated useful lives are involves an entity under common years.
Hydro rights are amortised on Potential impairments of goodwill are assessed against the technology on Wind capacity and wind and corporate governance of the as follows: control which falls outside the scope a straight-line basis over 40 years.
The decision is based upon of IFRS 3, Business Combinations, which they arose.
expectations regarding likelihood of having regard to IAS 8, Accounting Impairment Land and Over the planning consent and estimates of Policies, Changes in Accounting The carrying amounts of the Groups Inventories buildings remaining Inventories are stated at the lower of Assumptions are also required to financial viability which, in Estimates and Errors, for identifying non-financial assets, other than unexpired lease determine the cash generating unit to themselves, are areas of judgment.
appropriate accounting methods in goodwill, inventories and deferred tax cost and net realisable value.
Cost is term, typically based on average cost and includes which each intangible asset, including circumstances not specifically assets, are reviewed at each reporting 2599 years goodwill, is allocated, and the Ongoing monitoring of these considered by IFRS, the consolidated date to determine whether there is expenditure incurred in acquiring the Plant and Over the shorter inventories and bringing them to their discount factor applied, in the net estimates as the project develops accounts are prepared as if the any indication of impairment, based equipment of the minimum present value calculation.
enables management to assess resulting structure had always been in on judgment techniques explained in existing location and condition.
except engine lease term of note 3.
Where an indication of whether these assumptions place.
Accordingly book values to the overhauls and each specific The judgments applied, and the remain appropriate.
wider group that is, based on the impairment exists on such assets, Leases hydro assets operating site and testing for impairment is undertaken.
Leases where the lessor retains assumptions underpinning them, are fair values assigned to the separate the expected life considered to be appropriate at the Revenue recognition assets and liabilities, and goodwill substantially all the risks and benefits of the asset, being Goodwill is tested annually for of ownership of the asset are classified time of valuation.
However, a change Revenue includes an estimate for the arising, on the original acquisition 220 years in these assumptions could impact recycled price of Renewable are used.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an upon the value of an intangible asset Obligation Certificates ROCs sold Engine overhauls 24 years the carrying amount of the net assets recognised upon acquisition.
This price acquired and the consideration paid Impairment assessments compare expense in the statement of Hydro assets 40 years the carrying value of a cash comprehensive income on a straightis variable and is estimated based on is recognised within other reserves.
Impairment a number of factors including UK generating unit CGU to the net line basis over the lease term.
Wind farm assets 320 years present value of the future cash flows In assessing impairment, judgment is electricity demand, targets set for Intangible assets and goodwill required to establish whether there renewable generation in the UK and Goodwill on acquisition is initially it is expected to generate, discounted Leases in which the Group assumes the actual amount of UK renewable at a rate that management have substantially all the risks and rewards have been indicators of impairment measured as the excess of the cost of for all amortising and depreciating energy generation achieved.
the business combination over the determined reflects the specific risks of ownership of the leased asset are relating to the business.
The pre-tax classified as finance leases.
Where acquirers interest in the net fair value 05 140 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 141 05 Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 land and buildings are held under obligation.
If the effect of the time accounting is discontinued Borrowing costs Revenue Tax prospectively.
The cumulative gain or finance lease, the accounting value of money is material, provisions Borrowing costs directly attributable Revenue is the amount derived from Tax comprises current and deferred treatment of the land is considered are determined by discounting the loss previously recognised in equity tax.
Tax is recognised in the income to the acquisition, construction or the sale of electricity and associated remains there until the forecast separately from that of the buildings.
expected future cash flows at a production of qualifying assets, renewable certificates and embedded statement except to the extent that it Leased assets acquired by way of pre-tax rate that reflects current transaction occurs.
When the hedged relates to items recognised directly in which are assets that necessarily take benefits in the normal course of item is a non-financial asset, the finance lease are stated at an amount market assessments of the time value a substantial time to get ready for business, measured at the fair value equity, in which case it is recognised equal to the lower of their fair value of money and, where appropriate, the amount recognised in equity is in equity.
their intended use, are added to the of consideration received or transferred to the carrying amount of and the present value of the minimum risks specific to the liability.
Where cost of those assets, until such time receivable, net of value added tax.
lease payments at inception of the discounting is used, the increase in the asset when it is recognised.
In Current tax is the expected tax as the assets are substantially ready other cases the amount recognised in lease, less accumulated depreciation the provision due to the passage of for use.
Revenue except for the recycled payable on the taxable income for the and impairment losses.
time is recognised as a finance cost.
equity is transferred to profit and loss year, using tax rates enacted or element of the ROC price is in the same period that the hedged Where instruments have been taken recognised: where there is a substantively enacted at the balance Cash and cash equivalents Financial instruments item affects profit and loss.
sheet date and any adjustment to tax out to hedge against interest rate risk, signed unconditional contract Cash and cash equivalents comprise Derivative financial instruments capitalised borrowing costs will of sale: based on the quantity of payable in respect of previous years.
cash balances and call deposits.
Bank The Group utilises derivative financial The Group adopts a policy of reflect the interest rate after taking electricity exported: and price ensuring that at least 80% of its overdrafts that are repayable on instruments in the normal course of into account the effect of the based on the contracted rate on Deferred tax is provided on demand and form an integral part of business in order to hedge its exposure to changes in interest rates temporary differences between the hedging instrument.
on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis, the Groups cash management are exposure to fluctuations in interest carrying amounts of assets and included as a component of cash and rates.
Embedded derivatives are taking into account assets with liabilities for financial reporting Costs incurred in raising borrowings Revenue for the recycled element of exposure to changes in interest rates.
cash equivalents for the purpose only separated from the host contract and are capitalised and amortised over the ROC price is estimated see purposes and the amounts used for of the statement of cash flow.
accounted for separately if the The Group enters into and designates taxation purposes.
The following the length of the borrowing.
interest rate swaps as hedges of the economic characteristics and risks of temporary differences are not Cash and cash equivalents includes the host contract and the embedded variability in cash flows attributable provided for: the initial recognition of Additional costs incurred due to the Revenue from newly constructed to interest rate risk.
restricted cash balances, which derivative are not closely related, a redemption of a facility are charged wind farms is first recognised in goodwill: the initial recognition of principally relate to the debt service separate instrument with the same assets or liabilities that affect neither to the income statement in the period the income statement from the Non-derivative financial instruments requirements of certain borrowings terms as the embedded derivative in which they are incurred.
Amounts accounting nor taxable profit other undertaken by the Group.
would meet the definition of a Non-derivative financial instruments than in a business combination: and receivable for generation prior to comprise investments in equity and derivative, and the combined All other borrowing costs are commissioning are offset against the differences relating to investments in Trade and other receivables instrument is not measured at fair debt securities, trade and other subsidiaries to the extent that they recognised in the statement of cost of construction.
receivables including service Trade and other receivables, value through the statement of comprehensive income in the period will probably not reverse in the excluding derivative assets, are comprehensive income.
concession receivables, cash and foreseeable future.
The amount in which they are incurred.
All revenue is generated in the cash equivalents, loans and carried at cost less impairment United Kingdom.
of deferred tax provided is based on losses.
Trade receivables, which Derivatives are recognised initially at borrowings, and trade and other the expected manner of realisation Employee benefits payables.
Non-derivative financial generally have 30 terms, are fair value: attributable transaction Share based payments Net finance costs or settlement of the carrying amount recognised and carried at original costs are recognised in the statement instruments are recognised initially of assets and liabilities, using tax The grant date fair value of options Net finance costs comprise interest at fair value.
Subsequent to initial invoice amount less an allowance for of comprehensive income when granted to employees is recognised as payable and interest receivable on rates enacted or substantively uncollectable amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial enacted at the statement of an employee expense, with a funds invested.
Interest income and instruments are measured as for doubtful debts is made when recognition, derivatives are measured corresponding increase in equity, over interest payable are recognised in the financial position date.
collection of the full amount is no at fair value and changes therein are described below.
the period that the employees statement of comprehensive income longer probable.
Bad debts are accounted for as described below.
become unconditionally entitled to as it accrues, using the effective A deferred tax asset is recognised written-off when identified.
Interest-bearing borrowings only to the extent that it is probable the options.
The amount recognised interest method.
Interest-bearing borrowings are Cash flow hedges as an expense is adjusted to reflect that future taxable profits will be Trade and other payables Changes in the fair value of the recognised initially at fair value less available against which the asset can the actual number of share options for Royalty payments attributable transaction costs.
Trade and other payables, excluding derivative hedging instrument which the related service and nonRoyalty payments to landlords are be utilised.
derivative liabilities, are carried at cost.
designated as a cash flow hedge are Subsequent to initial recognition, market vesting conditions are met.
recognised in the statement of interest-bearing borrowings are recognised directly in equity to the comprehensive income as they Provisions extent that the hedge is effective.
stated at amortised cost with any Pension arrangements accrue, based on the level of difference between cost and Provisions are recognised when the To the extent that the hedge is The Group provides pension electricity generation at each site.
Group has a present obligation legal ineffective, changes in fair value are redemption value being recognised in arrangements for employees and the statement of comprehensive or constructive as a result of a past recognised in profit and loss.
certain directors who are members event, it is probable that an outflow income over the period of of the Friends Provident Stakeholder the borrowings on an effective of resources embodying economic If the hedging instrument no longer defined contribution scheme.
benefits will be required to settle the meets the criteria for hedge interest basis.
Contributions for this scheme are accounting, expires or is sold, obligation and a reliable estimate can charged to the income statement in be made of the amount of the terminated or exercised, then hedge the period in which they are payable.
