05 136 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 137 05 Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 does not affect Adjusted net income.
interpretations have been applied by In June 2012, the IASB published 1.
Accounting policies between market participants at the IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements Other than the re-presentation within the Company in preparing these measurement date.
It also replaces Consolidated Financial Statements, reserves, there have been no financial statements.
Their adoption Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Infinis Energy plc the Company and expands the disclosure In May 2011, the IASB issued the new is a company incorporated and adjustments to the consolidated did not have a material effect on requirements about fair value standard IFRS 11.
It replaces IAS 31, Interests in Other Entities: Transition balance sheet or cash flow statement.
the financial statements unless Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, domiciled in the UK.
measurements in other IFRSs, Interests in Joint Ventures, and SIC-13, otherwise indicated.
including IFRS 7 Financial Jointly Controlled Entities Non IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The amendments The financial statements have been clarify the transition guidance The financial statements consolidate Instruments: Disclosures.
those of the Company and its prepared and approved by the Amendments to IFRS: Financial The standard will, in future, contained in IFRS 10, and they also Directors in accordance with Instruments: Disclosures Transfers provide additional relief for the first subsidiaries together referred to as In accordance with the transitional distinguish between two types of the Group, its equity accounted International Financial Reporting of Financial Assets provisions of IFRS 13, the Group has joint arrangements: joint ventures time adoption of all three standards.
Standards as adopted by the EU Adjusted comparative information associates and jointly controlled applied the new fair value and joint operations.
The provisions entities, and present the results of Adopted IFRSs.
In October 2010, the IASB issued measurement guidance of IFRS 10 form the basis for need now be provided only for the amendments to IFRS 7.
The new immediately preceding comparative the Group and associates and jointly prospectively.
Notwithstanding the determining joint control.
If, after controlled entities for the years The Directors have, at the time of version of the standard seeks to allow above, the change has no significant assessing the particular facts, a joint period.
For unconsolidated approving the financial statements, users of financial statements to structured entities, the requirement ended 31 March 2014 and 2013. impact on the measurement of the venture is determined to exist, it must a reasonable expectation that the improve their understanding of the Groups assets and liabilities.
be accounted for using the equity to present comparative information Company and the Group have transfer of financial assets in for periods before IFRS 12 is first 1.1 Basis of preparation method.
In the case of a joint On 2 October 2013, Infinis Energy adequate resources to continue in particular transactions for example, 2.1 Standards, amendments and operation, however, each joint applied is removed altogether.
operational existence for the securitisations of debt.
interpretations in issue but not operator must account for their share Subsequently, on 22 October 2013, foreseeable future.
They have amendments relate in particular to yet effective of assets and liabilities, and expenses IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements therefore continued to adopt the the disclosure of potential risks that revised Infinis Energy Limited acquired all of The following new standards, and income.
the share capital of Infinis Holdings going concern basis of accounting remain with the entity that amendments to standards and in preparing the financial statements.
transferred the assets as a Comprises those parts of the existing and, as a result, became the holding interpretations have been adopted by IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in company for all the activities of the consequence of continuing the EU but are not yet effective and Other Entities IAS 27 that deal with separate The principal accounting policies set involvement.
financial statements, with some minor Infinis Group.
On 28 October 2013, have not been applied by the Group Infinis Energy Limited was reout below have, unless otherwise in preparing these financial IFRS 12 regulates the disclosure clarifications and is effective for stated, been applied consistently Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation accounting periods beginning on or registered as a public limited company statements.
Their adoption is not requirements for both IFRS 10 and and changed its name to Infinis throughout the current and of Financial Statements expected to have a material effect IFRS 11, and was published by the after 1 January 2014. preceding financial year.
Infinis Energy plc was on the financial statements unless IASB together with these standards in admitted to the London Stock As a result of the amendments to otherwise indicated.
The standard requires IAS 28: Investments in Associates Judgments made by the Directors, in IAS 1, the Group has modified the and Joint Ventures revised Exchange on 20 November 2013.
The will be effective for the first time entities to publish information on the financial information is presented the application of accounting policies presentation of items of other in the Groups financial statements nature of their holdings, the that have a significant effect on the comprehensive income in its Covers joint ventures as well as under the principles of common for the year ended 31 March 2015. associated risks and the effects on control accounting, as if Infinis Energy financial statements, and estimates consolidated statement of their net assets, financial position and associates and, in terms of changes with a significant risk of material comprehensive income, to present in interest held, no longer requires plc had always owned the Infinis IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial results of operations.
Accordingly, the adjustment in the next year, are separately items that would be Statements is required for subsidiaries, joint re-measurement of the retained discussed in note 3. reclassified to profit or loss in the interest in the investment upon comparative information represents arrangements, associates and the results for Infinis Holdings, which future from those that would never In May 2011, the IASB issued the new unconsolidated structured units cessation of significant influence or 1.2 Measurement convention be.
The adoption of the amendment joint control.
was formerly the holding company of standard IFRS 10, Consolidated special purpose entities.
Infinis Holdings was The financial statements are prepared to IAS 1 has no impact on the Financial Statements.
This IFRS discretionary decisions and on the historical cost basis except recognised assets, liabilities and Amendments to IAS 32: Financial acquired by Infinis Energy plc on 22 replaces the existing guidance on assumptions, including any changes October 2013 as a step to prepare the for certain financial instruments comprehensive income of the Group.
control and consolidation contained to them, that were made in Instruments: Presentation which are stated at their fair value.
Group for admission to the London in IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate determining control according to Stock Exchange.
All values are rounded to the nearest IFRS 13: Fair value measurement Financial Statements, and in SIC-12, IFRS 10 and for joint arrangements, In December 2011, the IASB issued thousand 000 except where amendments to IAS 32.
Entities shall ConsolidationSpecial Purpose must also be disclosed.
Interest costs for the comparative otherwise indicated.
IFRS 10 establishes a uniform in future be required to disclose gross framework for measuring fair value and net amounts from offsetting, as period have been re-presented from definition of the term control, with Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 the amounts previously disclosed as and making disclosures about fair greater emphasis on the principle of and IFRS 12 Consolidated Financial well as amounts for existing rights of value measurements, when such Statements, Joint Arrangements set off that do not meet the Infinis Holdings.
Adopted standards, substance over form than in the past.
to interest has been recycled from measurements are required or The new standard can thus give rise and Disclosure of Interests in accounting criteria for offsetting.
In amendments and permitted by other IFRSs.
In Other Entities addition, inconsistencies in applying the hedge reserve to the income to an altered scope of consolidation.
interpretations in issue statement in respect of cancellations particular, it unifies the definition of the existing rules for offsetting, fair value as the price at which an financial assets and financial liabilities of interest rate swaps.
This amount is presented within exceptional net The following new standards, orderly transaction to sell an asset or have been eliminated.
to transfer a liability would take place finance costs refer to note 8 and amendments to standards and
