05 138 Section Five Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2014 139 05 Notes forming part of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 discount rate used for each reporting 3.
Accounting estimates non current assets.
Significant accounting Business combinations of the identifiable assets, liabilities operational reviews of the business, Business combinations involving and contingent liabilities.
and judgments policies management uses site profitability entities that are not under common as a financial indicator of control are accounted for by applying Goodwill is stated at cost less any An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of a In the process of applying the Groups potential impairment.
Property, plant and equipment the purchase method, and goodwill accumulated impairment.
Goodwill is accounting policies, management Property, plant and equipment is represents the difference between allocated to cash generating units CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are necessarily makes judgments and Once the need for a review of the stated at cost less accumulated the fair value of purchase CGUs and is not amortised but estimates that have a significant carrying value of an asset has been depreciation and impairment.
Cost consideration and the fair value of the tested annually for impairment.
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
effect on the values recognised in the determined, valuation requires includes expenditure that is directly net identifiable assets acquired.
Changes in the estimation techniques similar to those attributable to the acquisition of the Identifiable intangible assets are Other intangible assets are stated at Any impairment loss previously assumptions underlying these used for acquired assets and is asset.
The cost of self-constructed those which can be sold separately cost less accumulated amortisation judgments and estimates could result therefore subject to similar estimates assets includes the cost of materials or which arise from legal rights, and any impairment.
Other intangible recorded in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
For all other assets, an in a significant impact to the financial and judgments.
and direct labour, and any other costs regardless of whether those rights assets include the landfill gas reserve, statements.
The most critical of these directly attributable to bringing the are separable.
landfill gas generation rights, wind impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the CGUs carrying accounting judgments and estimates Capitalisation of development and asset to a working condition for its usage rights and hydro usage rights.
construction costs intended use, and attributable Contingent consideration is Details of the accounting estimates amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been When developing a potential site borrowing costs.
During the measured at fair value at the and judgments made in the valuation Valuation of LFG, wind and hydro for power plant construction, construction phase these assets acquisition date.
Subsequent changes of these assets are disclosed in note 3. determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss rights acquired estimates are required to establish are held separately and in the fair value of the contingent LFG, wind and hydro rights acquired the point at which the project is depreciation commences once consideration are recognised in profit Amortisation of intangible assets had been recognised.
are initially valued based on the net sufficiently certain to begin the asset is commissioned.
For those acquisitions that Amortisation of LFG reserves and present value of expected cash flows capitalising costs and, thereafter, occurred prior to 31 March 2010, LFG rights is provided on a straightThe Group forecasts CGU cash flows to the end of the CGUs useful life.
A number whether it remains appropriate to Depreciation is charged to the changes in the fair value of the line basis to allocate the cost of the of assumptions are made in arriving continue such capitalisation.
statement of comprehensive income contingent consideration is asset over its estimated useful life.
Impairment assessments for assets at such valuations which include price on a straight-line basis, with no recognised as an adjustment The Directors expect the maximum and, specifically for each technology: The decision to capitalise costs is residual value, over the estimated to the goodwill associated with useful life of these assets to extend to other than goodwill are considered at individual site level, which is initially determined by formal internal useful lives of each part of an item the transaction.
Wind rights are LFG method and uniformity of sign-off in line with delegated of property, plant and equipment.
amortised on a straight-line basis considered an appropriate CGU.
gas production, gas availability authorities for overseeing and Where a business combination over the lower of the lease term or 20 and methane content: managing the broad goals, strategies The estimated useful lives are involves an entity under common years.
Hydro rights are amortised on Potential impairments of goodwill are assessed against the technology on Wind capacity and wind and corporate governance of the as follows: control which falls outside the scope a straight-line basis over 40 years.
The decision is based upon of IFRS 3, Business Combinations, which they arose.
expectations regarding likelihood of having regard to IAS 8, Accounting Impairment Land and Over the planning consent and estimates of Policies, Changes in Accounting The carrying amounts of the Groups Inventories buildings remaining Inventories are stated at the lower of Assumptions are also required to financial viability which, in Estimates and Errors, for identifying non-financial assets, other than unexpired lease determine the cash generating unit to themselves, are areas of judgment.
appropriate accounting methods in goodwill, inventories and deferred tax cost and net realisable value.
Cost is term, typically based on average cost and includes which each intangible asset, including circumstances not specifically assets, are reviewed at each reporting 2599 years goodwill, is allocated, and the Ongoing monitoring of these considered by IFRS, the consolidated date to determine whether there is expenditure incurred in acquiring the Plant and Over the shorter inventories and bringing them to their discount factor applied, in the net estimates as the project develops accounts are prepared as if the any indication of impairment, based equipment of the minimum present value calculation.
enables management to assess resulting structure had always been in on judgment techniques explained in existing location and condition.
except engine lease term of note 3.
Where an indication of whether these assumptions place.
Accordingly book values to the overhauls and each specific The judgments applied, and the remain appropriate.
wider group that is, based on the impairment exists on such assets, Leases hydro assets operating site and testing for impairment is undertaken.
Leases where the lessor retains assumptions underpinning them, are fair values assigned to the separate the expected life considered to be appropriate at the Revenue recognition assets and liabilities, and goodwill substantially all the risks and benefits of the asset, being Goodwill is tested annually for of ownership of the asset are classified time of valuation.
However, a change Revenue includes an estimate for the arising, on the original acquisition 220 years in these assumptions could impact recycled price of Renewable are used.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an upon the value of an intangible asset Obligation Certificates ROCs sold Engine overhauls 24 years the carrying amount of the net assets recognised upon acquisition.
This price acquired and the consideration paid Impairment assessments compare expense in the statement of Hydro assets 40 years the carrying value of a cash comprehensive income on a straightis variable and is estimated based on is recognised within other reserves.
Impairment a number of factors including UK generating unit CGU to the net line basis over the lease term.
Wind farm assets 320 years present value of the future cash flows In assessing impairment, judgment is electricity demand, targets set for Intangible assets and goodwill required to establish whether there renewable generation in the UK and Goodwill on acquisition is initially it is expected to generate, discounted Leases in which the Group assumes the actual amount of UK renewable at a rate that management have substantially all the risks and rewards have been indicators of impairment measured as the excess of the cost of for all amortising and depreciating energy generation achieved.
the business combination over the determined reflects the specific risks of ownership of the leased asset are relating to the business.
The pre-tax classified as finance leases.
Where acquirers interest in the net fair value
