LEGAL NOTICE NOTICE CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected insuch forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and aresubject to a number of risks and uncertainties and actual results and events could differ materially from those currently being anticipated as reflected in such forward-looking statements.
The terms expect, should be, will be and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Factors which may cause future outcomes to differfrom those foreseen in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those identified under Principal Risks Factors on pages 62 to 65 of this Annual Report.
The forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of publication of this Annual Report.
Except as required by any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this document to reflect any change intheGroups expectations or any change in events, conditions orcircumstances on which any such statement is based.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on thewebsite doesnot constitute part of this Annual Report.
com 194 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTRARS All general enquiries concerning holdings of ordinary shares inInforma PLC should be addressed to our registrars,  Services PLC Computershare : Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road Bristol, BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 44 0 870 707 1679 Website: www.
co. uk The shareholder helpline is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
To access your shareholding details online, go to www.
To register to use the website, youwill need your shareholder reference number as shownonyour share certificate or dividend voucher.
The website enables you to: view and manage all of your shareholdings: register for electronic communications: buy and sell shares online with the dealing service: and deal with other matters such as a change of address, transferringshares or replacing a lost certificate.
DIVIDEND Informa usually pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each year.
Shareholders can arrange for dividends to be paid by mandatedirectly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
You can register your bank or building societydetails online at www.
co. uk or contact Computershare foradividend mandate form.
If you wish receive your dividends in a different currency, you will need to register for the global payments service provided byComputershare.
Further information can be found on the Computershare website.
Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive shares instead ofcash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
For further details on the DRIP, including terms and conditions, you should contact Computershare orvisit their website.
SHARE DEALING If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, they can do so by calling the Companys stockbrokers, Equiniti Financial Services Limited on 0808 208 4433.
Instructions on how to deal will be provided over the phone.
The helpline is open 8.00am to4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, except bankholidays.
CREST ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift registered charity no.
1052686 is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers ofshares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 14m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,700 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 195 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility programme, and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
For further information please visit www.
PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT FROM SHARE REGISTER FRAUD Over the last few years a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target existing shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high riskshares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to bevery wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares atadiscount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person andorganisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA before getting involved.
Report the matter to the FCA by completing an online form atwww.
TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or holdyour shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from Computershare in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
If you change address, inform Computershare.
If you receive a letter from Computershare regarding a change of address andyou have not recently moved, contact them immediately.
Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
If you change your bankaccount, inform Computershare of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters Computershare send toyouabout this.
If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
ADR PROGRAMME On 1 July 2013, Informa established a Level I American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with BNY Mellon, theglobal leader in investment management and investment services.
Each Informa ADR represents two ordinary shares and trades on the OTC over-the-counter market in the US underthe symbol IFJPY ISIN US45672B2060.
Investors can find information on Informas ADRs on www.
com dr. Informas ordinary shares continue to trade on the Premium Main Market of the London Stock Exchange LSE under the symbol INF ISIN: GB00BMJ6DW54.
com 196 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk Global Exhibitions photography courtesy of Arab Health.
Other photography by Philip Gatward and Simon Jarratt.
Illustrations by Brett Ryder and AudeVan Ryn.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint usingvegetable inks and their and environmental printing technology.
Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral company and areISO 9001:2000, ISO14001, EMAS and Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified.
This report is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper produced using wood fibre from fully sustainable forestswith FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free, and the manufacturing mill is ISO 14001 and FSC certified.
UNDERSTANDING INFORMA Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Our current registered office address is: 37-41 Mortimer Street London W1W 7RE t: 44 0 20 7017 5000 e: info@informa.
com From the 26th May 2015 this will change to: 5 Howick Place, London SW1P 1WG t: 44 0 20 7017 5000 e: info@informa.
