STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION The Consolidated Financial Statements as at 31December 2014 and for year then ended comprise those of the Company and itssubsidiaries and its interests in joint ventures together referred to as the Group.
On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc Old Informa, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa PLC the Company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014 and is headquartered in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The introduction of a new Parent Company constitutes a Group reconstruction and has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The comparative equity structure has been restated to reflect the new equity structure of the Company.
Therefore, although the Group reconstruction did not become effective until 30 May 2014, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are presented as if the Company had always been part of the Group.
Accordingly, the results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2013 are also presented on this basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by the reorganisation.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report section of the Directors Report on page 73.
The Directors have, at the time of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further detail is contained in theGovernance section on page 76.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP, the functional currency of the Parent Company, Informa PLC.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRSS Standards and interpretations adopted in the current year The following new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted in the current year: IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27: Investment Entities Amendment to IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendment to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment to IAS 36: Impairment of Assets Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets Amendment to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Novation of Derivatives and Continuation ofHedge Accounting International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 cycle issued December 2013 The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes to the Groups accounting policies, except for IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and Standard Interpretations Committee SIC 13.
Under IFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
IFRS 11 addresses only two forms of joint arrangements joint operations and joint ventures and removes the option to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation.
The Group has changed its accounting for joint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity accounting.
This change in policy has required a restatement of the comparative periods see Note 5. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION CONTINUED ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRSS CONTINUED Standards and interpretations in issue, not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 9: Financial Instruments not endorsed by the EU IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts not endorsed by the EU IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Applying the Consolidation Exception not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation not endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions endorsed by the EU Amendments to IAS 27: Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements not endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 20122014 cycle issued September 2014 not endorsed by the EU Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 cycle issued December 2013 endorsed by the EU The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact onthe financial statements of the Group, except for the following: IFRS 9 is a new standard which enhances the ability of investors and other users of financial information to understand the accounting for financial assets and reduces complexity.
IFRS 9 uses a single approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value, replacing the many different rules in IAS 39.
This standard is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
We will evaluate the impact on the Group in 2015.
IFRS 15 is a new standard, based on a five-step model framework, which replaces all existing revenue recognition standards.
The standards requirements will also apply to the recognition and measurement of gains and losses on the sale of certain non-financial assets that are not an output of the entitys ordinary activities e. g. sales of property, plant and equipment or intangibles.
This standard is currently effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017.
We will evaluate the impact on the Group in 2015. www.
com 118 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply withArticle 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
ADJUSTED RESULTS Management believes that adjusted results and adjusted earnings per share Note 16 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRSs and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
The following charges credits are presented as adjusting items: 2014 2013 Continuing operations Notes m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 20.7 14.2 Acquisition and integration costs 8 4.7 5.8 Intangible asset amortisation 18 93.9 105.0 Impairment Goodwill and other intangible assets 17 18 202.5 40.5 Impairment Loan receivable 26 14.5 8.3 Impairment Intangible software assets 18 17.1 Impairment Other 18 2.0 0.3 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 8 1.8 2.5 Loss on disposal of businesses 22 2.8 3.4 Interest on overdue tax 12 0.3 Excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility 12 1.2 Share of results of joint ventures 0.3 0.1 340.8 191.9 Tax related to adjusting items 14 31.4 39.8 Tax credit in respect of prior year items 14 11.6 13.7 297.8 138.4 www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED The principal adjustments made are in respect of: restructuring and reorganisation costs the costs incurred by the Group in non-recurring business restructuring and changing the operating model to align with the Groups revised strategy: acquisition and integration costs the costs incurred by the Group in acquiring and integrating share and asset acquisitions: intangible asset amortisation the Group continues to amortise other intangible assets.
The amortisation charge in respect ofintangible software assets and product development is included in the adjusted results.
The amortisation charge in respect ofall remaining other intangible assets is excluded from the adjusted results as management does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: impairment the Group tests for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when an indicator exists.
The material impairment charges are individually disclosed.
The impairment charge for those other separately identified intangible assets hasbeen linked with subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration of those acquisitions: loss on disposal of businesses the loss on disposal includes the fair value of consideration less the net assets liabilities disposed, non-controlling interest and costs directly attributable with the disposal: excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where revolving credit facilities have been terminated early, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of the underlying results and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: and share of results of joint ventures the share of results includes intangible asset amortisation and impairment charge related to joint ventures, which is excluded from adjusted results in line with the presentation of the Groups intangible asset amortisation and treatment of impairment.
The tax related to adjusting items is the tax effect of the items above and in 2014 it also includes the effect of the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate applicable for the purposes of calculating deferred tax to 20%.
The tax credit in respect of prior year items is mainly attributable to adjustments relating to historic disposals.
SIGNIFICANT EXCHANGE RATES The following significant exchange rates versus GBP were applied during the year: Average rate Closing rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 USD 1.6485 1.5635 1.5596 1.6510 EUR 1.2422 1.1776 1.2833 1.1997 www.
com 120 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain assets and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted, all of which have been consistently applied, are set out below.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Change in accounting policy IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13 and is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2014.
UnderIFRS 11 joint control is defined as the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement which exists only when thedecisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
This change in policy has required a restatement of the comparative periods see Note 5.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity, has the rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results ofacquired subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interest in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity and consistof the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination plus their share of changes in equity sincethat date.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint ventures since the acquisition date.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The Statement of Comprehensive Income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding ofbetween 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED REVENUE Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes, and provisions for returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the subscription.
Attendee, sponsorship and exhibitor income is deferred and recognised when the event is held.
Copy sales revenue is recognised on the sale of the product.
Advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
INTEREST INCOME Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
The methodology for calculating effective interest rate is disclosed in the effective interest method policy note.
DIVIDEND INCOME Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition and integration costs incurred are expensed and included in adjusting items intheConsolidated Income Statement.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest inthe acquiree is re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration isclassified as equity, it should not be re-measured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration islowerthan the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
GOODWILL Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and businesses is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
It is recognised as an asset at cost, assessed forimpairment at least annually and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs, as defined by theBoard for internal management purposes, expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired.
Where an impairment test is performed a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the CGUs compared with the carrying value of that goodwill.
Management estimate the discount rates as the risk affected cost of capital for the particular CGUs.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU isless than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unitand then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Upon disposal, the attributable carrying value of goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
com 122 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
For business combinations, cost is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodologies Note 18.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, which are as follows: Book lists 20 years Journal titles 20 years Database content and intellectual property 320 years Exhibitions and conferences 320 years Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payrollrelated costs for employees who are directly associated with, and who devote substantial time to, the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
Thesecosts are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which range from 310 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
The Group does not have any intangible assets with indefinite lives excluding goodwill.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT Property and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property and equipment on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 315 years Freehold land is not depreciated The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS EXCLUDING GOODWILL At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there isany indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGUs to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated futurecash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated asarevaluation decrease.
NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value lesscosts to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale whichshould be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED INVENTORY Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and expenses incurred inbringing the inventory to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less marketing and distribution costs expected to be incurred.
During the year the amount of inventory recognised as an expense, including pre-publication amortisation, was 36.6m 2013:34.4m.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are retranslated at the rates ruling at that date.
These translation differences are disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the datewhen the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component ofthat gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
The statements of financial position of foreign subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the closing rates of exchange.
Theresults are translated at an average rate, recalculated for each month between that months closing rate and the equivalent forthe preceding month.
Foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of opening net investments in foreign subsidiaries at the closing rate aretaken directly to the translation reserve.
In addition, foreign exchange differences arising from retranslation of the foreign subsidiaries results from monthly average rate to closing rate are also taken directly to the Groups hedging reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial year in which the operations are disposed of.
The translation movement on matched long-term foreign currency borrowings, qualifying as hedginginstruments under IAS 39, are also taken directly to the hedging reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
LEASING Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownershipto the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the lease and depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease and the estimated useful economic lives of the assets.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as a finance lease obligation.
Finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital amount outstanding and are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Rental income from sub-leasing property space is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease andismatched with the corresponding payments made under the head lease.
com 124 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TAXATION The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision isthe best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account therisks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for usingthe balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability isrecognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged orcredited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
PENSION COSTS Certain Group companies operate defined contribution pension schemes for employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents contributions payable and is charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group also operates funded defined benefit schemes for employees.
The cost of providing these benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
Past service cost is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the opening net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside ofthe Consolidated Income Statement and in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position represents the actual deficit orsurplus in the Groups defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value of the Long-Term Incentive Plan is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing foran estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are recognised in the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: loans and receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and available-forsale investments.
The classification is determined by management upon initial recognition, and it is based on the purpose for whichthe financial assets were acquired.
EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset liability and of allocating interestincome expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cashreceipts payments including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset liability, or, where appropriate, ashorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for all debt instruments within the Group.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are measured on initial recognition at fair value, and are subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
IMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets are impaired where there isobjective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, theestimated future cash flows of the investment have been negatively impacted.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below itscostisconsidered to be objective evidence of impairment.
For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
com 126 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually aresubsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio pastthe average credit period of 30 days 2013: 30 days, and observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with increased default risk on receivables.
A specific provision will also be raised for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and defaultor delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amountand the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception oftrade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of a provision account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the provision account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written offarecredited against the provision account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the provision account are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the assets have expired or havebeen transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Grouprecognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY INSTRUMENTS ISSUED BY THE GROUP Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
BANK BORROWINGS Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument tothe extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
FINANCE COSTS Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
TRADE PAYABLES Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, as set out above, with interest expense recognised on an effectiveyield basis.
DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged or cancelled, or theyexpire.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 3.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Thederivative instruments utilised by the Group to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps.
The Group does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured totheir fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative isdesignated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives aseither: hedges of a change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or firm commitments fair value hedges : hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cashflowhedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes infair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded inprofit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to thehedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the Consolidated Income Statement relating to the hedged item.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flowhedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results inthe recognition of a financial asset or financial liability, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss in thesame line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction thatishedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulatedin equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial assetornon-financial liability.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations Hedges of net investment in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument in relation to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in the other comprehensive income and accumulated inthe foreign currency translation reserve.
Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item is disposed of.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies forhedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equityuntil the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain orlossrecognised in equity is transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period.
com 128 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets orcurrent liabilities.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 33.
ESOP TRUST SHARES Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired bytheEmployee Share Option Plan ESOP Trusts in connection with certain of the Groups employee share schemes.
PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been communicated to the affected parties.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent fromother sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that areconsidered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS In addition to the judgement taken by management in selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the Directors have made the following judgements concerning the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised with consideration given tothetiming and level of future taxable income.
Identification of CGUs in the impairment testing of goodwill andotherintangible assets For the purpose of impairment tests, the goodwill and other intangible assets are allocated to CGUs that are expected to benefit from these and which represent the lowest level within the Group at which management monitors goodwill and other intangible assets.
With changes in the business structure enacted during the year, management judgement is required in identifying theCGUs.
Recoverability of long-term receivables There are a number of external loans which are repayable over the next two to ten years.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial success of the external parties over the coming years.
In making its judgement, management will assess for each significant loan receivable whether a credit risk provision is required.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY CONTINUED KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised inthe period in which the estimate is revised.
Valuation and asset lives of separately identifiable intangible assets In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets on a business combination, management are required to make estimates when utilising the Groups valuation methodologies.
These methodologies include the use of discounted cash flows and revenue forecasts.
For significant acquisitions management have considered the advice of third partyindependent valuers in identifying and calculating the valuation of any intangible assets arising on acquisition.
Asset lives are estimated based on the nature of the intangible asset acquired and range between 3 and 20 years.
Valuation of share-based payments In order to determine the value of share-based payments, management are required to make an estimation of the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The expected volatility is determined by calculating thehistorical volatility of the Companys share price calculated over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
Thelistof inputs used in the Binomial and Monte Carlo Simulation models to calculate the fair values are provided in Note 11.
Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Management have made a number of assumptions with regard to the models used to value financial instruments at their fair valueat year end.
Valuation techniques commonly used by market practitioners are applied.
Note 33 details the methods used to value the primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups borrowing requirements and the derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate profile.
For derivative financial instruments, assumptions are made based on quoted market rates adjusted for specific features of the instrument.
Other financial instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis based on assumptions supported, wherepossible, by observable market prices or rates.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets There are a number of assumptions management have considered in performing impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets.
The determination of whether goodwill or intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note17details the assumptions that have been applied.
Pension assumptions There are a number of assumptions management have considered on the advice of actuaries which have an impact on the results of the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities at year end.
The most significant assumptions are those relating to the discount rate of return on investments and the rates of increase in salaries and pensions.
Note 38 details the assumptions which have beenadopted.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been included based on management estimates of the most likely outcome Note 19.
However, any subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
com 130 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 5.
CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY IFRS 11 is a new standard which replaces IAS 31 and SIC 13 and is effective from 1 January 2014.
This change in policy has required a restatement of the comparative periods.
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Income Statement is summarised as follows: Year ended 31 December 2013 Previously reported Adjustments Restated m m m Revenue 1,132.4 2.4 1,130.0 Net operating expenses 985.7 1.7 984.0 Operating profit 146.7 0.7 146.0 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 0.4 Profit before tax 115.7 0.3 115.4 Tax charge 12.6 0.2 12.4 Profit for the year from continuing operations 103.1 0.1 103.0 Loss for the year 6.4 0.1 6.5 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 6.4 0.1 6.5 The prior year adjustments on the previously reported Consolidated Income Statement in 2013 had no impact on earnings pershare.
The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income issummarised as follows: Year ended 31 December 2013 Previously reported Adjustments Restated m m m Loss for the year 6.4 0.1 6.5 1 Total comprehensive expense for the year 24.9 0.1 25.0 Attributable from continuing operations to: 1 Equity holders of the parent 84.6 0.1 84.5 1 These numbers do not reflect the reclassification of cumulative foreign exchange losses on disposals of 3.6m.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 5.
CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY CONTINUED The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is summarised asfollows: Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 Previously Previously reported Adjustments Restated reported Adjustments Restated m m m m m m Non-current assets Other intangible assets 780.3 1.3 779.0 874.7 874.7 Investments in joint ventures 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 Other receivables 37.6 0.5 38.1 20.4 20.4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 203.0 203.0 228.0 1.0 227.0 Current tax asset 2.6 0.2 2.4 3.1 3.1 Cash at hand and in bank 32.4 0.4 32.0 23.9 23.9 Capital and reserves Retained earnings 2,433.3 2,433.3 2,543.6 0.1 2,543.7 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 7.0 0.5 6.5 3.6 3.6 Current liabilities Current tax liabilities 45.1 0.1 45.0 78.0 78.0 Trade and other payables 179.5 0.1 179.4 202.3 1.0 203.3 Deferred income 316.0 0.1 315.9 308.1 1.6 306.5 The impact of the prior year adjustment on the previously reported Consolidated Cash Flow Statement is summarised as follows: Year ended 31 December 2013 Previously reported Adjustments Restated m m m Profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations 2.5 0.3 2.2 Amortisation of other intangible assets 139.3 0.1 139.2 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 0.4 Decrease in receivables 12.6 1.5 11.1 Increase in payables 21.3 0.1 21.2 Cash generated by operations 332.3 2.2 330.1 Dividends received from joint ventures 0.2 0.2 Purchase of other intangible assets 50.4 1.4 49.0 www.
com 132 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 6.
REVENUE An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 1 2014 2013 m m Subscriptions 464.8 477.4 Attendees 167.6 173.0 Copy sales 215.4 221.8 Exhibitors 194.4 165.6 Sponsorship 73.0 66.9 Advertising 21.8 25.3 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,137.0 1,130.0 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS BUSINESS SEGMENTS Management has identified reportable segments based on financial information used by the Board of Directors in allocating resources and making strategic decisions.
We consider the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Executive Directors.
Unless otherwise indicated the segment information reported on the following pages does not include any amounts for discontinued operations, which are described in more detail in Note 21.
As announced on 10 July 2014 and on the back of a comprehensive strategic review earlier in the year, the Group has been repositioned to deliver growth and scale in each of its markets.
Following this assessment, a new operating model has been implemented for the Group.
It has been designed to reduce the complexity of existing business structures and reporting lines.
From 1 January 2015, the Group operating model will be structured and reported as four trading Divisions.
Since the Executive Directors are already reviewing the financial information based on the four trading Divisions, the segmental disclosures are being presented using the new structure, with comparatives restated.
Therefore the Groups four identified reporting segments under IFRS 8 Operating Segments are as follows: Academic Publishing The Academic Publishing Division, operating under the Taylor & Francis Group banner, comprises of the imprints of Taylor & Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent OA.
The Division provides books and journals, both in print and electronic formats, primarily for academic and research users in the subject areas of behavioural and social sciences, humanities, science, technology and medicine.
Business Intelligence The Business Intelligence Division provides highly specialised actionable intelligence to service the information needs of corporations and governments globally.
The products consist of rich data sets and valuable insight, across the Pharamaceuticals &Healthcare, Finance, Maritime & Law, Technology Media Telecoms and Agriculture Food sectors.
Global Exhibitions The Global Exhibitions Division runs business-to-business Exhibitions and trade shows, as well as a number of Consumer andfanevents globally.
Knowledge & Networking The Knowledge & Networking Division offers thousands of conferences and training courses globally as well as building communities and providing the attendees with the opportunity to meet face to face.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED SEGMENT REVENUE AND RESULTS 31 December 2014 Academic Business Global Knowledge & Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Total m m m m m Revenue Note 6 408.9 281.7 200.2 246.2 1,137.0 Adjusted operating profit 150.0 75.2 67.4 41.5 334.1 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 9 2.5 10.5 3.0 4.7 20.7 Acquisition and integration costs Note 2 1.0 3.7 4.7 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 1.6 1.6 1.8 1.8 1 Intangible asset amortisation 40.2 16.2 20.9 16.6 93.9 Impairment Note 2 205.3 13.7 219.0 Operating profit loss 106.3 155.2 24.5 22.0 2.4 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 22 2.8 Finance costs Note 12 29.2 Investment income Note 13 3.6 Loss before tax from continuing operations 31.2 1 Excludes software and product development amortisation.
31 December 2013 restated Academic Business Global Knowledge & 1 Publishing Intelligence Exhibitions Networking Total m m m m m Revenue Note 6 407.8 305.9 160.2 256.1 1,130.0 Adjusted operating profit 150.9 86.8 50.0 47.0 334.7 Restructuring and reorganisation costs Note 9 1.3 9.0 0.6 3.3 14.2 Acquisition and integration costs Note 2 0.1 0.8 4.7 0.2 5.8 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration Note 2 2.9 0.3 0.7 2.5 2 Intangible asset amortisation 41.4 25.4 18.7 19.5 105.0 Impairment Note 2 6.2 4.6 2.7 52.7 66.2 Operating profit loss 101.9 49.9 23.6 29.4 146.0 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 Loss on disposal of businesses Note 22 3.4 Finance costs Note 12 29.5 Investment income Note 13 1.9 Profit before tax from continuing operations 115.4 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
2 Excludes software and product development amortisation.
com 134 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in Note 3.
Adjusted operating result by operating segment is the measure reported to the Group Chief Executive for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
Finance costs and investment income are not allocated to segments, as this type of activity is driven by the central Treasury function, which manages the cash positions of the Group.
SEGMENT ASSETS RESTATED 1 2014 2013 m m Academic Publishing 1,025.3 1,003.4 Business Intelligence 791.6 985.9 Global Exhibitions 657.0 286.4 Knowledge & Networking 360.2 378.5 Total segment assets 2,834.1 2,654.2 Unallocated assets 50.4 58.0 Total assets 2,884.5 2,712.2 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
For the purpose of monitoring segment performance and allocating resources between segments, management monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets are allocated to reportable segments except for corporate balances, including some intangible software assets, balances receivable from businesses sold and taxation current and deferred.
Assets used jointly by reportable segments are allocated on the basis of the revenues earned by individual reportable segment.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 7. BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED SEGMENT ASSETS RESTATED CONTINUED The Groups revenues from its major products and services 2013 restated for the new operating structure were as follows: 1 2014 2013 m m Academic Publishing Subscriptions 218.6 218.8 Copy sales 190.3 189.0 Total Academic Publishing 408.9 407.8 Business Intelligence Subscriptions 246.2 258.6 Copy sales 25.1 32.8 Advertising 10.4 14.5 Total Business Intelligence 281.7 305.9 Global Exhibitions Attendees 20.1 16.4 Exhibitors 157.5 129.6 Sponsorship 16.2 9.0 Advertising 6.4 5.2 Total Global Exhibitions 200.2 160.2 Knowledge & Networking Attendees 147.5 156.6 Exhibitors 36.9 36.0 Sponsorship 56.8 57.9 Advertising 5.0 5.6 Total Knowledge & Networking 246.2 256.1 Total revenue from continuing operations 1,137.0 1,130.0 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
INFORMATION ABOUT MAJOR CUSTOMERS The Groups revenue by location of customer and information about its segment assets by geographic location are detailedbelow: Revenue from continuing operations Segment assets 1 1 2014 2013 2014 2013 Geographic information m m m m United Kingdom 149.0 158.3 1,130.2 1,281.3 North America 416.4 386.8 1,334.6 965.6 Continental Europe 235.1 253.1 77.3 106.4 Rest of World 336.5 331.8 342.4 358.9 1,137.0 1,130.0 2,884.5 2,712.2 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
No individual customer amounts to more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
com 136 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 8.
NET OPERATING EXPENSES Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Adjusted Adjusting Statutory Adjusted Adjusting Statutory results items results results items results 1 1 1 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Notes m m m m m m Cost of sales 367.2 367.2 363.1 363.1 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 10 319.9 319.9 322.6 322.6 Amortisation of other intangible assets 12.1 93.9 106.0 15.8 105.0 120.8 Depreciation 6.1 6.1 6.4 6.4 Impairment 2 219.0 219.0 66.2 66.2 Net foreign exchange loss 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.4 Auditors remuneration for audit services see below 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Operating lease expenses Land and buildings 37 17.6 17.6 19.4 19.4 Other 37 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 20.7 20.7 14.2 14.2 Acquisition and integration costs 2 4.7 4.7 5.8 5.8 Subsequent re-measurement ofcontingent consideration 2 1.8 1.8 2.5 2.5 Other operating expenses 77.2 77.2 65.6 65.6 Total net operating expenses from continuing operations 802.9 336.5 1,139.4 795.3 188.7 984.0 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
Amounts payable to the auditor, Deloitte LLP and its associates by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings isprovidedbelow: 2014 2013 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual financial statements 0.7 0.6 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the Group: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.4 Total audit fees 1.0 1.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for non-audit services comprises: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.4 0.4 Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.5 There were no future services for the auditor contracted at the reporting date 2013: nil.
The fees payable for other services of 0.4m relate to corporate finance services in relation to the listing of the new UK-domiciled ultimate Parent Company.
The other services in 2013 relate to the carve-out work of the Corporate Training businesses, of which 0.3m of this fee was reimbursed from the acquirer.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Governance section on pages 86 to 89 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 9.
RESTRUCTURING AND REORGANISATION COSTS 2014 2013 m m Redundancy costs 14.2 10.7 Reorganisation costs 2.1 2.4 Re-domicile costs 2.9 0.6 Vacant property provisions 1.5 0.5 20.7 14.2 10.
STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by segment, wasas follows: Number of employees 1 2014 2013 Academic Publishing 1,927 1,862 Business Intelligence 2,146 2,203 Global Exhibitions 782 770 Knowledge & Networking 1,797 1,758 6,652 6,593 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 282.5 283.9 Social security costs 27.1 27.8 Pension costs charged to operating profit Note 39 8.6 8.7 Share-based payment Note 11 1.7 2.2 Staff costs excluding redundancy costs 319.9 322.6 Redundancy costs Note 9 14.2 10.7 334.1 333.3 The remuneration of Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of thecategories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Note 40.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report on pages 99 to 102.
2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.7 4.5 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.5 Share incentive gains and payments 0.6 3.0 5.6 www.
com 138 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 11.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs provide for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of the Groups shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is generally three years.
The LTIPs expire if they remain unexercised after the exercise period has lapsed.
Furthermore, LTIPs are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the LTIPs vest, unless theymeet certain eligibility criteria.
The Group recognised total expenses of 1.7m 2013: 2.2m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in the year ended 31 December 2014.
2 From 1 January of year in which grant made.
3 50% split of total awards granted.
4 75% split of total awards granted.
5 25% split of total awards granted.
In order to satisfy the share awards granted under LTIPs, the share capital would be increased by up to 1,215,877 shares.
The Company is planning to issue additional share capital to satisfy the awards although if circumstances change it may instead buy the shares as needed on the open market.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over one, two and three years back from the date of grant.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, forthe effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 12.
FINANCE COSTS 2014 2013 Notes m m Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 27.8 29.2 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 39 0.2 0.6 Total interest expense 28.0 29.8 Interest on overdue tax 2 0.3 Excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility 2 1.2 29.2 29.5 13.
INVESTMENT INCOME 2014 2013 Notes m m Loans and receivables: Interest income on bank deposits 0.5 0.6 Interest income on non-current receivables 26 3.1 1.3 3.6 1.9 14.
TAXATION The tax charge comprises: 2014 2013 Notes m m Current tax: Current year 33.4 50.8 Tax credit presented as adjusting item 8.2 13.7 Deferred tax: Current year 31 2.4 19.4 Tax credit presented as adjusting item 31 3.4 Credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 31 0.4 5.3 Total tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 19.8 12.4 www.
com 140 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The tax shown as an adjusting item within the Consolidated Income Statement relates to the following: Gross Tax Gross Tax 2014 2014 2013 2013 Continuing operations Notes m m m m Restructuring and reorganisation costs 9 20.7 4.1 14.2 3.7 Acquisition and integration costs 2 4.7 1.4 5.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 93.9 25.6 105.0 26.9 Impairment 2 219.0 66.2 4.0 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 1.8 0.4 2.5 Loss on disposal of businesses 22 2.8 3.4 Interest on overdue tax 12 0.3 0.1 Excess interest on early repayment of revolving credit facility 12 1.2 0.3 Share of results of joint ventures 0.3 0.1 Deferred tax charge credit arising from UK corporation tax rate change 31 0.4 5.3 Tax provision release net of associated deferred tax charge 2 11.6 13.7 340.8 43.0 191.9 53.5 The current and deferred tax is calculated on the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation is calculated on each jurisdiction based on the prevailing rates of that jurisdiction.
The total tax charge credit for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2014 2013 m % m % Profit before tax 31.2 115.7 Tax credit charge at effective UK statutory rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 6.7 21.5 26.8 23.2 Permanent differences 34.5 110.6 3.0 2.6 Losses in certain jurisdictions that have not beenrecognised 3.2 10.3 1.6 1.4 Deferred tax credit arising from UK corporation tax ratechange 0.4 1.3 5.3 4.6 Tax provision release net of associated deferred taxcharge 11.6 37.2 13.7 11.9 Tax charge and effective rate for the year 19.8 63.5 12.4 10.7 In addition to the income tax charge to the Consolidated Income Statement, a tax credit of 1.8m 2013: charge of 2.3m hasbeen recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income during the year.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 15.
DIVIDENDS 2014 2013 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 12.5p per share 75.4 First interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.4p per share 38.6 Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 12.5p per share 75.4 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 6.4p per share 38.6 114.0 114.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 12.9p per share 2013:12.5p per share 83.7 75.5 As at 31 December 2014 0.1m 2013: 0.1m of dividends are still to be paid.
As at 31 December 2014 holders of 737,272 2013: 737,272 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each have waived their rights toreceivedividends.
Following the re-domicile back to the UK this year, the Dividend Access Plan was unwound on 28 July 2014.
EARNINGS PER SHARE BASIC The basic earnings per share calculation is based on a loss attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of 52.4m 2013restated: 6.5m loss.
This loss on ordinary activities after taxation is divided by the weighted average number of shares inissue less those non-vested shares held by employee share ownership trusts which is 608,258,772 2013: 602,421,793.
DILUTED The diluted earnings per share calculation is based on the basic earnings per share calculation above except that the weighted average number of shares includes all potentially dilutive options granted by the reporting date as if those options had been exercised on the first day of the accounting period or the date of the grant, if later, giving a weighted average of 608,309,328 2013:602,687,758.
The table below sets out the adjustment in respect of diluted potential ordinary shares: 1 1 2014 2013 Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation 608,258,772 602,421,793 Effect of dilutive share options 50,556 265,965 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share calculation 608,309,328 602,687,758 1 For 2014 and 2013 the effect of dilutive share options were anti-dilutive for the purpose of the dilutive earnings per share and have not been used.
com 142 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE The basic and diluted adjusted earnings per share calculations have been made to allow shareholders to gain a further understanding of the trading performance of the Group.
They are based on the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Profits are based on operations attributable to equity shareholders and are adjusted for items that are not perceivedby management to be part of the underlying trends in the business and the tax effect of those adjusting items.
From continuing operations: 1 2014 2013 m m Loss profit for the year 51.0 103.0 Non-controlling interest 1.4 Adjusting items net of attributable taxation Note 2 297.8 138.4 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 245.4 241.4 Earnings per share from continuing operations: Adjusted basic p 40.3 40.1 Adjusted diluted p 40.3 40.1 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
From continuing and discontinued operations: 1 2014 2013 m m Loss for the year 51.0 6.5 Non-controlling interest 1.4 Adjusting items net of attributable taxation Note 2 297.8 250.3 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 245.4 243.8 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations: Adjusted basic p 40.3 40.5 Adjusted diluted p 40.3 40.5 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 17.
GOODWILL m Cost At 1 January 2013 1,827.4 Additions in the year 57.9 1 Disposals Note 22 196.3 Exchange differences 22.8 At 1 January 2014 1,666.2 Additions in the year 313.0 Exchange differences 27.1 At 31 December 2014 2,006.3 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2013 100.9 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 40.5 1 Disposals Note 22 77.2 Exchange differences 4.1 At 1 January 2014 68.3 Impairment losses for the year Note 2 193.4 Exchange differences 4.3 At 31 December 2014 257.4 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 1,748.9 At 31 December 2013 1,597.9 1 Included in disposals for 2013 are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the CGUs that are expected tobenefit from that business combination.
In July 2014 the Group announced a reorganisation of its trading Divisions, whereby theGroup is now organised into four trading Divisions Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
Each of the Divisions has its own Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer.
This reorganisation of the reporting structure has changed the composition of the CGUs to which goodwill is allocated.
Discussions have been held with theManaging Director and Chief Financial Officer of each operating segment, as determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, toassess the new CGUs.
The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The number of CGUs has increased to 21 2013: 12.
For reporting purposes, the CGUs have been aggregated into the reportable segments.
The CGUs are individually assessed for impairment each year.
com 144 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the major groups of CGUs is set out below: Restated 2014 2013 m m Academic Publishing 440.6 423.3 Business Intelligence 584.7 760.3 Global Exhibitions 442.1 135.4 Knowledge & Networking 281.5 278.9 1,748.9 1,597.9 The movements in carrying amount relate primarily to acquisitions, disposals, impairment, foreign exchange movements and otherinternal reclassifications.
The Group assesses the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets annually at year end, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
In the current year, the impairment review was conducted based on the new structure.
The 2013 year end impairment review was carried out under the old structure.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations, which are based on the cash flow projections for each CGU.
The key assumptions are those regarding the revenue and operating margin growth rates.
Estimated future cash flows are determined by reference to latest budgets and forecasts for the next five years approved by management, after which a long-term perpetuity growth rate is applied.
The most recent financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors have been prepared after considering the current economic environment in each of our markets.
The estimates of future cash flows are consistent with past experience adjusted for managements estimates of future performance.
As disclosed inthe Chief Executives Review, we are committed to increasing the level of investment in each Division over the next three years through the Growth Acceleration Plan.
This investment covers a large range of initiatives and we have factored both the costs andthe related benefits into the approved budgets and five year projections used in the impairment review.
Short-term average growth rates used for the four year projections from 2016 to 2019 vary across each CGU.
However, theweighted average compound annual growth rate CAGR for the four trading Divisions is: Academic Publishing 2%: Business Intelligence 6%: Global Exhibitions 9%: and Knowledge & Networking 11%.
Our current estimate of long-term average growth rates are 3% for Academic Publishing, Global Exhibitions and the Continental Europe CGU in Knowledge & Networking and 2% for Business Intelligence and the remainder of Knowledge & Networking.
The rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
In 2013, the long-term average growth rates were 2% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and European Conferences, and 3% for GlobalEvents.
During the year, the pre-tax discount rates used in the value in use calculations were increased to reflect the Groups assessment of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs.
The change is an increase of 1% over the previous year.
In 2014, the pre-tax discount rates applied are 10.5% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and 11.5% for theGlobal Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking businesses, with the exception of the Continental Europe CGU in Knowledge & Networking where the pre-tax discount rate has increased by 1% to 12.5%, which is to reflect the challenging economic conditions in Europe.
Management has increased the pre-tax discount rate to reflect our assessment of the current market and other risks specific to the CGUs.
In 2013, the pre-tax discount rates applied were 9.5% for Academic Publishing andBusiness Intelligence and 10.5% for the Global Events businesses with the exception of the European Conferences CGU where the pre-tax discount rate was increased by 1% to 11.5%.
The impairment review has identified indicators of impairment for the Consumer, Pharma & Healthcare and Australia Exhibitions CGUs.
The Consumer and Pharma & Healthcare CGUs are included in the Business Intelligence Division and the Australia Exhibitions CGU is in the Global Exhibitions Division.
All three CGUs have been impacted by the tough market conditions andinthe case of the Australia Exhibitions CGU the operations were closed in November.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 17.
GOODWILL CONTINUED Updated projections have been produced for these CGUs which has resulted in an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill by193.4m and intangible assets by 9.1m, split out as follows: Intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Consumer 149.0 1.0 150.0 Pharma & Healthcare 40.0 40.0 Australia Exhibitions 4.4 8.1 12.5 193.4 9.1 202.5 The carrying amounts for the impaired CGUs at 31 December 2014 are: Intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Consumer 16.2 16.2 Pharma & Healthcare 288.4 46.4 334.8 Australia Exhibitions 288.4 62.6 351.0 Management has undertaken sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible future trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: an increase in the pre-tax discount rate by 1%: a decrease of 1% for Academic Publishing and Business Intelligence and 2% for Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking on forecast operating profits over years 25: and a decrease in the terminal growth rate by 1% for all CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis shows that when applying all of the above criteria, a further impairment of 58.1m would arise for Pharma & Healthcare.
For the other CGUs, no impairment would result from the scenarios in our sensitivity analysis.
com 146 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 18.
2 All product development in 2014 and 2013 is internally generated.
3 Of the 57.7m arising on acquisitions in 2013, 10.4m related to prior year acquisitions.
4 Of the 16.8m 2013 restated: 59.5m additions to Book lists and journal titles, Database content and intellectual property and Exhibitions and conferences, 10.8m 2013: 47.6m represents cash paid.
5 8.3m 2013: 8.3m additions to Intangible software assets and 1.7m 2013: 2.7m additions to product development represent cash paid.
All research and development activity during the year met capitalisation criteria and was capitalised as additions.
6 Included in disposals for 2013 are assets written off with nil net book value that are not expected to generate any future economic benefits.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 18.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Intangible software assets include a gross carrying amount of 70.2m 2013: 103.7m and accumulated amortisation of 39.0m 2013: 71.2m which relates to software that has been internally generated.
The Group does not have any of its other intangible assets pledged as security over bank loans.
As a result of the impairment review see Note 17 impairments have been recognised in the Business Intelligence Division forthe Consumer CGU 1.0m and in Australia in Global Exhibitions 8.1m.
As a consequence of reducing the contingent consideration for prior year acquisitions by 1.8m, an impairment charge of 1.8m inBusiness Intelligence and 0.2m in Global Exhibitions has also been recognised.
The re-measurement ofthe contingent consideration and impairment has been presented as adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement see Note 2.
19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 2014 2013 CASH PAID ON ACQUISITION NET OF CASH ACQUIRED m m 1 Current period acquisitions Hanley Wood Exhibitions business 239.8 Virgo Group 85.6 Provisuale Participaes Ltda 7.2 Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 2.0 Other 17.9 Prior year acquisitions 2013 acquisitions: EBD Group 0.1 29.2 Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 27.4 Other 1.2 26.5 2012 acquisitions: Fertecon Limited 1.5 Sagient Research Systems Inc. 0.4 Other 1.5 0.3 2011 acquisitions: Brazil Trade Shows Partners Participaes S. A.
2.4 Other 0.2 2010 acquisitions: Emerging Portfolio Fund Research Inc. 1.4 Other 0.1 357.4 87.3 1 These acquisitions are covered by the Business combinations made in 2014 tables in this note.
Where goodwill is provisional, a best estimate of fair value has been made but these will be reviewed and adjusted in the next year should it be necessary.
In line with the Groups strategy, a number of acquisitions were made in the year.
All acquisitions were paid for in cash including deferred and contingent consideration, with the exception of the Hanley Wood Exhibitions acquisition which was partly financed by an equity placement.
For all acquisitions full control over the business has been obtained by acquiring 100% of the ordinary issued share capital, with the exception of the acquisition of Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd where 85% of the ordinary issued share capitalwas acquired, and the acquisition of Design Junction Limited where 90% of the ordinary issued share capital was acquired.
The contingent consideration for our share and asset acquisitions is based on future business valuations and profit multiples and has been estimated on an acquisition by acquisition basis using available data forecasts.
The range of undiscounted outcomes forcontingent consideration is 2.6m to 25.3m.
com 148 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 Hanley Wood Exhibitions On 5 December 2014, the Group acquired 100% shareholding in Red Point, LLC Red Point, which in turn holds a 100% shareholding in both Hanley Wood Topco, Inc. HW Topco and Greenbuild, Inc. Greenbuild.
HW Topco also holds a 100% shareholding in Hanley Wood Exhibitions, Inc. HW Exh, collectively the Hanley Wood Exhibitions.
Red Point and HW Topco are holding companies and all trade occurs in HW Exh and Greenbuild.
Immediately post-acquisition, Red Point, LLC, Hanley Wood Topco, Inc. and Hanley Wood Exhibitions, Inc. were renamed to IE Merger Sub, LLC, IE Topco, Inc. and Informa Exhibitions U. S. Construction & Real Estate, Inc. respectively.
Hanley Wood Exhibitions is one of the largest trade show organisers in the US, with a portfolio of 17 annual Exhibitions focused onbuilding and construction.
The combined acquisition information has been disclosed to provide better understanding of the transaction.
The companies form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was 239.8m comprising of cash consideration of 238.4m plus net overdraft acquired of 1.4m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Property and equipment 1.5 1.5 Trade and other receivables 5.5 5.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1.4 1.4 Deferred tax asset 10.3 10.3 Trade and other payables 1.6 1.6 Deferred income 21.9 21.9 Net liabilities acquired 7.6 7.6 Goodwill 248.2 Total consideration 240.6 Less: contingent consideration 2.2 Plus: net overdraft acquired 1.4 Net cash outflow 239.8 Due to the proximity of the business combination to the year end, the Group has been unable to obtain a detailed valuation, from an external third party, of the intangible and tangible assets acquired with the business.
Accordingly, the surplus of consideration over fair value of the share of net assets acquired has been allocated to goodwill at 31 December 2014.
The Group expects to obtain a valuation of intangible assets, including trade name and customer relationships, and other acquired assets and liabilities inearly 2015.
The value of goodwill will be adjusted by a corresponding amount for the value of intangible assets identified including any associated deferred tax liabilities and the difference between the market and book values of the assets and liabilities.
Management believes that goodwill remaining after this exercise will comprise value to the Group for which the recognition of a discrete intangible asset is not permitted and will represent future growth opportunities.
Acquisition and integration costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2014 amounted to 2.8m.
The business contributed 0.4m to loss after tax and less than 0.1m to revenue of the Group for the period between thedateofacquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 10.3m to profit aftertaxand37.6m to revenue of the Group.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 CONTINUED Virgo Group On 8 August 2014, the Group acquired 100% shareholding in VPG Alternative Investment Corp VPG Corp, Arlington VPG Alternative Investment Fund VPG Fund and Arlington Virgo Holdings, LLC Virgo Hold Co, which in turn holds a 100% shareholding in Virgo Publishing LLC Virgo LLC, collectively the Virgo Group.
Immediately post-acquisition, VPG Corp and VPG Fund were merged into Virgo Hold Co.
The result of this merger is a 100% shareholding in Virgo Hold Co which in turn holds a 100% shareholding in Virgo LLC, renamed Informa Exhibitions Hold Co andInforma Exhibitions LLC respectively.
The Virgo Group is a leading B2B information services business with a portfolio of annual Exhibitions and conferences, trade websites and affiliated publications, focused on the Health & Nutrition, Communications, Healthcare and Self-Storage market sectors.
Thecompanies form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was 85.6m comprising of cash consideration of 88.5m less net cash acquired of 2.9m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 38.2 38.2 Intangible software assets 0.1 0.1 Property and equipment 0.3 0.3 Trade and other receivables 1.6 1.6 Cash and cash equivalents 2.9 2.9 Deferred tax asset 3.4 3.4 Trade and other payables 1.0 1.0 Deferred income 8.2 8.2 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.9 38.2 37.3 Goodwill 51.2 Total consideration 88.5 Less: net cash acquired 2.9 Net cash outflow 85.6 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, representsbenefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets, such as: a meaningful foothold in the US Exhibition market, the largest market geographically in the world: an opportunity to achieve revenue synergies as the Virgo Group owns and operates the largest Exhibition in the world, andInforma owns the largest in Europe, for the sector of Innovative and Healthy Ingredients: superior growth characteristics, with strong organic revenue growth in 2013 and 2014: and a strong management team with expertise which can be applied to other events outside of the US.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities have been finalised and valued externally by a third party.
com 150 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Trade name and trademarks 10.6 Customer relationships 26.8 Non-compete agreements 0.8 Total intangible assets 38.2 Acquisition and integration costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2014 amounted to 0.4m.
The business contributed 2.9m to profit after tax and 11.7m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date ofacquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 1.3m to loss after taxand18.9m to revenue of the Group.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 CONTINUED Provisuale Participaes Ltda On 13 October 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Provisuale Participaes Ltda.
The company owns and operates its sole event called Futurecom, a large annual telecoms Exhibition held in So Paulo, Brazil.
The company forms part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was 7.2m comprising of cash consideration of 7.6m less net cash acquired of 0.4m.
The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired with the related fair value adjustments: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 5.8 5.8 Trade and other receivables 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.4 Trade and other payables 0.6 0.6 Deferred income 3.7 3.7 Deferred tax liabilities 1.9 1.9 Net liabilities assets acquired 1.8 3.9 2.1 Goodwill 11.7 Total consideration 13.8 Less: deferred consideration 0.9 Less: contingent consideration 5.3 Less: net cash acquired 0.4 Net cash outflow 7.2 Goodwill arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets of that business primarily due to the synergies we expect to gain from the acquisition.
The fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and liabilities assumed are provisional pending receipt of final valuations.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: m Trademark 3.5 Customer relationships 2.3 Total intangible assets 5.8 Acquisition and integration costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2014 amounted to 0.1m.
The business contributed 2.2m to profit after tax and 5.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date ofacquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it would have contributed 1.7m to profit after taxand5.0m to revenue of the Group.
com 152 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS China Beauty Expo On 27 December 2013, the Group acquired 80% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd Baiwen.
On 13 March 2014, the Group subsequently acquired 85% of the issued share capital of Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd Meisheng.
Baiwen owns and operates China Beauty Expo, the largest beauty trade event in mainland China.
This eventcomprises of three specialised shows in beauty salons and spa products: cosmetics and toiletries: and packaging, original equipment manufacturer and machinery.
Meisheng owns the MeiYe Awards held at the China Beauty Expo event and the associated publication, Cosmetic News.
The acquisition of these companies was subject to the Chinese government approval andtherefore completed at different periods.
The companies will form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
As reported in 2013, the net cash outflow in the Baiwen acquisition was 27.4m comprising of cash consideration of 37.9m lessnet cash acquired of 10.5m.
The net cash outflow in relation to the Meisheng acquisition was 2.0m comprising of cash consideration of 2.7m less net cashacquired of 0.7m.
The disclosure below provides the net assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 10.4 10.4 Trade and other receivables 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 11.2 11.2 Trade and other payables 1.6 1.6 Deferred income 6.3 6.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 2.6 5.4 7.8 13.2 Non-controlling interest 1.0 1.0 Net assets acquired 4.4 7.8 12.2 Goodwill 28.4 Total consideration 40.6 Less: net cash acquired 11.2 Net cash outflow 29.4 www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 19. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 CONTINUED China Beauty Expo continued By company: Baiwen Meisheng Total Net assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 9.7 0.7 10.4 Trade and other receivables 1.7 0.4 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 10.5 0.7 11.2 Trade and other payables 1.6 1.6 Deferred income 5.5 0.8 6.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.4 0.2 2.6 12.4 0.8 13.2 Non-controlling interest 1.0 1.0 Net assets acquired 11.4 0.8 12.2 Goodwill 26.5 1.9 28.4 Total consideration 37.9 2.7 40.6 Less: net cash acquired 10.5 0.7 11.2 Net cash outflow 27.4 2.0 29.4 The goodwill of 28.4m relates to certain intangible assets that cannot be individually separated.
These include items such as customer loyalty, market share and synergies expected to arise after the acquisition completion.
The intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition are as follows: Baiwen Meisheng Total m m m Software 5.3 0.4 5.7 Brand 4.4 0.3 4.7 Total intangible assets 9.7 0.7 10.4 Acquisition and integration costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2014 amounted to less than 0.1m.
Baiwen contributed 0.3m to loss after tax and 8.9m to revenue of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 and did notcontribute to the 2013 results of the Group due to the proximity of the acquisition to the 2013 year end.
Meisheng contributed 0.8m to profit after tax and 1.3m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date of acquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the Meisheng acquisition had been completed on the first day of the 2014 financial year, it would have contributed 0.8m to profit after tax and 1.3m to revenue of the Group.
OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2014 The Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Landes Bioscience, Inc. and M. E. Sharpe, Inc. which form part of the Academic Publishing segment.
The Group also acquired 100% of the issued share capital of E-Health Media Limited and 90% of the issued share capital of Design Junction Limited which form part of the Global Exhibitions segment.
The net cash outflow was 17.4m comprising of cash consideration of 19.0m less net cash acquired of 1.6m.
During 2014, deferred and contingent consideration of 0.5m was paid.
com 154 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The disclosure below provides the net liabilities assets acquired on a combined basis with the related fair value adjustments: Book Fair value Fair value adjustments value Net liabilities assets at date of acquisition m m m Intangible assets 22.2 22.2 Inventory 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.8 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 1.6 Deferred tax asset 1.4 1.4 Trade and other payables 1.5 1.5 Deferred income 3.9 3.9 Deferred tax liabilities 6.2 6.2 Net liabilities assets acquired 0.4 16.0 15.6 Goodwill 6.2 Total consideration 21.8 Less: deferred consideration 2.2 Less: contingent consideration 0.6 Less: net cash acquired 1.6 Net cash outflow 17.4 Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired, represents benefits which do not qualify for recognition as intangible assets.
The intangible assets of 22.2m will typically relate to trade name, trademark and customer relationships which are split across each of the individual share acquisitions.
Acquisition and integration costs included in adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31December 2014 amounted to 0.9m.
The above acquisitions contributed 1.5m to profit after tax and 6.0m to revenue of the Group for the period between the date ofacquisition and 31 December 2014.
If the above acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, they would have contributed 1.2m to profit aftertax and 10.0m to revenue of the Group.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2013 During 2014, a payment totalling 0.1m was paid to the previous owners of the EBD Group and this resulted in an increase inthevalue of the intangible asset of 0.1m.
During 2014, payments totalling 0.1m were received in relation to consideration receivable for acquired net asset adjustments.
During 2014, further payments totalling 1.3m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for acquisitions made in 2013.
The remaining 1.9m contingent consideration for these acquisitions is payable within one year.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2012 During 2014, payments totalling 1.5m, 0.4m and 1.5m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for Fertecon Limited, Sagient Research Systems Inc. and other acquisitions made in 2012, respectively.
As a result, contingent anddeferred consideration relating to 2012 acquisitions have been fully repaid.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS MADE IN 2011 During 2014, payments totalling 0.2m were made in relation to deferred and contingent consideration for acquisitions madein2011.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 20.
INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURES Restated Restated 2014 2013 2012 m m m Investment in joint ventures 0.2 0.6 0.5 The Groups joint ventures at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Country of Class of Share Type of incorporation shares holding Accounting Company Segment business and operation held interest year end Lloyds Maritime Information Business Business England Ordinary 50% 31 December Intelligence information and Wales ServicesLimited Global Event Brazil Ordinary 49% 31 December SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda Exhibitions organisation Global Event England and Ordinary 50% 31 December Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions organisation Wales Exhibitions Limited Informa Tharawat LLC Global Conference State of Qatar Ordinary 49% 31 December Exhibitions organisation As per Note 2, the Group has adopted IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements in the period, which has meant changing the accounting forjoint ventures from proportionate consolidation to equity accounting.
This change in policy requires a restatement of the comparative periods as well.
An analysis of changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures is set out below: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Restated at start of year 0.6 0.5 0.3 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 0.4 0.2 Dividends received 0.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 0.1 At end of year 0.2 0.6 0.5 www.
com 156 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The following represent the aggregate assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the Groups joint ventures: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Non-current assets 0.6 2.7 Current assets 2.0 1.9 2.2 Non-current liabilities 1.9 2.0 Current liabilities 1.7 1.4 1.8 Income 1.5 5.9 0.4 Expenses 3.7 5.3 0.3 The loss recognised in SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda exceeds the investment held on the balance sheet.
Therefore 0.7m ofoperating losses has been recognised off balance sheet.
Any future operating profits for SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda willbe offset against this balance before being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS On 30 September 2013, the Group disposed of its five Corporate Training businesses, which created a loss for the period from discontinued operations of 109.5m.
The loss included 99.3m recognised on disposal, being proceeds of 87.3m at fair value : less the carrying amount of the net assets and attributable goodwill.
These businesses were a separate CGU and included within the Global Events reportable segment, as under the reporting structure in 2013.
The results of the discontinued operation, which have been included in the Consolidated Income Statement, were as follows: 2013 m Revenue 76.2 Expenses 90.1 Loss before tax 13.9 Attributable tax credit 3.9 10.0 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations Note 22 99.3 Attributable tax charge 0.2 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 109.5 The disposal made in 2014 see Note 22 does not meet the definition of a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 22.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARY AND OTHER ASSETS DISPOSALS MADE IN 2014 During the year the Group disposed of its Fashion Exposed event in Australia.
Upon completion, proceeds of 0.4m were received, resulting in a loss on disposal of 1.3m see Note 2.
Following the disposal of the Corporate Training businesses on 30 September 2013, final adjustments including related costs of1.5m have been recognised in the loss on disposal.
This has been included as an adjusting item in the Consolidated Income Statement see Note 2.
DISPOSALS MADE IN 2013 On 30 September 2013, the Group disposed of its five Corporate Training businesses: the European Conferences businesses in Spain and Italy: the trade and assets in the Superyacht Cup: and other small businesses.
A loss on disposal of 102.7m, including directly attributable costs of 11.1m, has been recognised within adjusting items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The disclosure below sets out the aggregate effect of the disposals on the Groups assets and liabilities: Corporate Other Training businesses Total m m m Goodwill 119.1 119.1 Other intangible assets excluding intangible software assets 46.4 1.3 47.7 Intangible software assets 2.1 2.1 Property and equipment 0.9 0.1 1.0 Inventory 0.7 0.7 Trade and other receivables 25.3 1.4 26.7 Cash and cash equivalents 3.5 1.8 5.3 Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.1 0.2 Trade and other payables 13.6 1.7 15.3 Deferred income 2.6 0.8 3.4 Deferred tax liabilities 8.4 0.3 8.7 Net assets disposed 173.5 1.9 175.4 Costs directly attributable with the disposal 9.8 1.3 11.1 Cumulative foreign exchange losses reclassified from equity 3.3 0.3 3.6 Loss on disposal 99.3 3.4 102.7 Total consideration 87.3 0.1 87.4 Satisfied by: Cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4 Deferred consideration 27.0 27.0 Net cash inflow arising on disposal Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 60.3 0.1 60.4 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 3.5 1.8 5.3 Less: costs directly attributable with the disposal 6.6 1.0 7.6 50.2 2.7 47.5 The loss on disposal of 99.3m for the Corporate Training businesses is included within discontinued operations see Note 21. www.
com 158 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 23.
The Group does not have any of its property and equipment pledged as security over bank loans.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 24.
SUBSIDIARIES The listing below shows the subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2014 which principally affected the profits or net assets ofthe Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
Country of registration Ordinary Company and incorporation Principal activity shares held Informa Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Group plc England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Switzerland Limited Switzerland Holding company 100% formerlyknown as Informa plc Informa Finance GmbH Switzerland Finance 100% Informa Middle East Limited Bermuda Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa IP GmbH Switzerland Intellectual property management 100% Informa Exhibitions, LLC US Events organisation 100% Provisuale Participaes Ltda Brazil Events organisation 100% Informa Exhibitions US Construction US Events organisation 100% &Real Estate, Inc. Informa UK Limited England and Wales Events, conference organisation and publishing 100% Taylor & Francis Group, LLC US Publishing 100% IIR Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Telecoms & Media Limited England and Wales Events, conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Investment Solutions Inc.
US Financial information 100% Informa Business Information Inc.
US Intelligence information gathering service 100% Citeline, Inc.
US Intelligence information gathering service 100% BTS Informa Feiras, Eventos e Brazil Events organisation 100% EditoraLtda Informa Canada Inc. Canada Events and conference organisation 100% Informa Global Markets Europe Limited England and Wales Financial information 100% Informa Monaco S. A. M. Monaco Events organisation 100% Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Limited China Events organisation 80% Datamonitor Inc.
US Business information 100% Emerging Portfolio Funds Research Inc.
US Financial information 100% IIR Exhibitions Limited England and Wales Events organisation 100% Institute for International Research Inc.
US Conference organisation 100% Informa Research Services Inc.
US Market research consulting 100% Of the above, Informa PLC directly owns Informa Switzerland Limited formerly known as Informa plc.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 3 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
In addition to the companies shown above, Informa PLC also holds investments in a number of other subsidiary undertakings which in the Directors opinion do not significantly affect the figures in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
In accordance withsection 410 2 a of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of subsidiaries was annexed to the 2014 annual return submitted toCompanies House.
A full list of subsidiaries will be submitted to Companies House during 2015. www.
com 160 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 25.
INVENTORY 2014 2013 m m Raw materials 0.1 Work in progress 7.6 7.3 Finished goods and goods for resale 36.8 34.9 44.5 42.2 Write down of inventory during the year amounted to 1.6m 2013: 2.7m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 1 2014 2013 m m Current Trade receivables 178.1 162.1 Less: provision 26.0 21.6 Trade receivables net 152.1 140.5 Other receivables 17.4 13.4 Prepayments and accrued income 32.3 27.7 Costs in advance 17.1 21.4 218.9 203.0 Non-current Other receivables 30.9 38.1 Total non-current 30.9 38.1 249.8 241.1 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 30 days 2013: 30 days.
The Group has provision policies for its various Divisions which have been determined by reference to past default experience.
Under the normal course of business, the Group does not charge interest on its overdue receivables.
Other non-current receivables primarily consists of a long-term receivable of 30.0m provided by the acquirer as consideration forthe disposal of the Corporate Training business in 2013.
The non-current receivable is repayable in 2019.
The movements in theyear relate to the impairment of China Medical Data Services and Expo Vinis receivables totalling 14.5m see Note 2, offset byeffective interest on loan receivable and foreign exchange movements.
The Groups exposures to credit risk and impairment losses related to trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 33.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 27.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1 2014 2013 Note m m Cash at bank and in hand 38.6 32.0 Bank overdrafts 32 3.3 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 35.3 31.5 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
The gross position for the cash at bank and in hand that has the legal right to set off the gross financial assets was 39.8m 2013:35.3m and the gross financial liabilities were 4.5m 2013: 3.8m.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risks and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in Note 33.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 1 2014 2013 m m Current Deferred consideration 5.7 2.1 Trade payables 29.4 32.8 Accruals 127.1 118.3 Other payables 35.8 26.2 Total current 198.0 179.4 Non-current Deferred consideration 1.2 3.4 Other payables 4.7 3.1 Total non-current 5.9 6.5 203.9 185.9 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
An analysis of the maturity of debt is given in Note 33.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 35 days 2013: 42 days.
There are no suppliers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade payables in either 2014 or 2013.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit time frame.
Therefore, under the normal course of business, the Group is not charged interest on overdue payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
com 162 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 29.
DEFERRED INCOME 1 2014 2013 m m Subscriptions and event revenue received in advance 342.9 315.9 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
PROVISIONS Contingent Property Restructuring Other consideration leases provision provision Total m m m m m At 1 January 2013 7.6 2.6 3.3 0.3 13.8 Increase in year 11.3 1.0 25.4 3.6 41.3 Utilisation 5.4 1.0 22.4 3.1 31.9 Release 2.5 0.5 0.4 3.4 At 1 January 2014 11.0 2.1 5.9 0.8 19.8 Increase in year 12.4 2.8 21.0 0.1 36.3 Utilisation 5.9 0.5 18.2 0.8 25.4 Release 1.8 0.5 0.2 2.5 At 31 December 2014 15.7 3.9 8.5 0.1 28.2 2014 Current liabilities 5.7 2.3 8.3 0.1 16.4 Non-current liabilities 10.1 1.6 0.1 11.8 2013 Current liabilities 5.5 0.7 5.7 0.8 12.7 Non-current liabilities 5.5 1.4 0.2 7.1 The contingent consideration relates primarily to current year acquisitions Provisuale Participaes Ltda, Design Junction Limited, Landes Bioscience, Inc. and M. E. Sharpe, Inc. and prior year acquisitions Apps World Event Limited and Doyle Trading Consultants, LLC.
The contingent consideration will be paid in one to three years.
The property lease provision represents the estimated excess of rent payable on surplus property leases, plus dilapidation provisions, less rent receivable via sub leases.
The property lease provisions will be fully utilised between one and five years.
As outlined in Note 2, during 2014 the Group implemented a number of restructuring and reorganisation projects.
The restructuring provision is expected to be substantially utilised by 31 December 2015.
The other provision relates to a finders fee on the acquisition of Agrishow.
The majority of the other provision is fully utilised as at 31December 2014. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 31.
DEFERRED TAX Accelerated Cash tax Pensions flow depreciation Intangibles Note 39 Other hedges Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 0.1 179.8 4.0 15.0 160.9 Debit to other comprehensive income fortheyear 2.2 0.1 2.3 Acquisitions 16.9 4.3 12.6 Credit charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 5.4 15.6 0.7 1.3 21.6 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year arising from UK corporation tax rate change 0.8 6.7 0.6 5.3 Disposals 0.1 9.3 0.7 8.5 Foreign exchange movements 6.1 0.2 5.9 At 1 January 2014 4.4 159.0 1.1 19.1 0.1 134.5 Credit to other comprehensive income fortheyear 1.7 0.1 1.8 Acquisitions 0.1 11.6 15.3 3.6 Credit charge to profit or loss for the year excluding UK corporation tax rate change 9.7 0.7 3.2 5.8 Charge to profit or loss for the year arising from UKcorporation tax rate change 0.4 0.4 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 3.4 1.0 2.5 At 31 December 2014 4.2 164.1 2.1 32.2 125.6 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of deferred tax balances for Consolidated Statement of Financial Position purposes: 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax liability 125.6 134.5 Deferred tax asset 125.6 134.5 The Finance Act 2013 enacted prospective reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21%, effective from 1 April 2014, and to 20%, effective from 1 April 2015.
The impact of this prospective reduction for 2013 was to reduce the Groups deferred tax liability by 4.8m, increase profit for the year by 5.3m and reduce other comprehensive income by 0.5m.
The impact for the current year is to increase the Groups deferred tax liability by 0.4m and decrease profit for the year by 0.4m.
At 31 December 2014 the Group has unused tax losses of approximately 36.6m 2013: 37.1m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 12.1m 2013: 12.5m has not been recognised due to the unpredictability of future taxable profitstreams.
At the reporting date, the aggregate amount of withholding tax on post-acquisition undistributed earnings for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was 13.3m 2013: 24.6m.
No liability has been recognised because the Group, being in aposition to control the timing of the distribution of intra-Group dividends, has no intention to distribute intra-Group dividends intheforeseeable future that would trigger withholding tax.
com 164 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 32.
BORROWINGS 2014 2013 Note m m Current Bank overdraft 27 3.3 0.5 Private placement loan notes 70.4 Total current borrowings 73.7 0.5 Non-current Bank borrowings 450.5 371.9 Private placement loan notes 390.6 442.2 1 Total non-current borrowings 841.1 814.1 914.8 814.6 1 The borrowings for current and prior year are presented net of arrangement fees.
There have been no breaches of covenants under the Groups bank facilities and private placement loan notes during the year.
Thebank and private placement borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiaries of the Group.
The Group does not have anyofits property and equipment and other intangible assets pledged as security over loans.
The Group maintains the following significant lines of credit: Private placement loan notes drawn in three currency tranches of US dollar USD 597.5m, pound sterling GBP 40.0m and Euro EUR 50.0m.
As at 31December 2014, the note maturities ranged between one and six years, with an average duration of 4.3 years, ataweighted average interest rate of 4.3%.
900.0m 2013: 625.0m revolving credit facility, of which 455.2m has been drawn down at 31 December 2014.
Interest is payable at the rate of LIBOR plus a margin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
39.1m 2013: 39.5m comprising a number of bilateral bank facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
Interest is payable at the local base rate plus margins that vary between 1%and 7%.
The effective interest rate as at 31 December 2014 is 3.0% 2013: 3.1%.
The Group had the following committed undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 December: 2014 2013 Expiry date m m Within one to two years In more than two years 444.8 251.1 444.8 251.1 The Groups exposure to liquidity risk is disclosed in Note 33 g. www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, andtheGroups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups financial instrument-related risk management policies.
The Treasury Committee meets and reports regularly to the Audit Committee onitsactivities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets, and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse financial instrument-related risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
In October 2014, the Group entered into a new five year revolving credit facility of 900.0m, of which 455.2m was drawn down at31 December 2014.
The facility matures in October 2019.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising thereturn to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares orsell assets to reduce debt.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes borrowings Note 32 and cash and cash equivalents Note 27, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital Note 34, reserves and retained earnings.
Cost of capital The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the Groups capital structure on a regular basis and as part of this review, the Committee considers the weighted average cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Gearing ratio The principal financial covenant ratios under the Groups borrowing facilities are maximum net debt to EBITDA of 3.5 times andminimum EBITDA interest cover of 4.0 times, tested semi-annually.
At 31 December 2014 both financial covenants werecomfortably achieved, with the ratio of net debt using average exchange rates to EBITDA of 2.2 times 2013: 2.2 times.
Theratio of EBITDA to net interest payable in the year ended 31 December 2014 was 14.4 times 2013: 13.0 times.
com 166 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS B CATEGORIES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument, are disclosed in Note 3.
1 2014 2013 Notes m m Financial assets Trade receivables 26 152.1 140.5 Other receivables 26 48.3 51.5 Cash and cash equivalents 27 38.6 32.0 Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.5 Total financial assets 239.0 224.5 Financial liabilities Bank overdraft 32 3.3 0.5 Bank borrowings 32 450.5 371.9 Private placement loan notes 32 461.0 442.2 Trade payables 28 29.4 32.8 Accruals 28 127.1 118.3 Other payables 28 40.5 29.3 Deferred consideration 28 6.9 5.5 Contingent consideration 30 15.7 11.0 Total financial liabilities 1,134.4 1,011.5 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
During the year there were no fair value or net investment hedges of foreign operations entered in during the year.
C MARKET RISK Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The Groups activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and, by managing the risk of currencies ofits borrowings, the Group is able to achieve a level of natural hedge of both the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position netcurrency assets and also the currency earnings due to the currency interest payable.
Refer to both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk in Note 33 d and e respectively.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board sets the Groups treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Groups businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
Group Treasury monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED C MARKET RISK CONTINUED The Board and the Treasury Committee provide written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specificareas, such as funding, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and investments of excess liquidity.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions inmitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and Group-wide, and the results are presented to the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and may drive the allocation of Internal Audit resources to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
D INTEREST RATE RISK The Group has no significant interest-bearing assets at floating rates and is exposed to interest rate risk as entities in the Group borrow funds at both fixed and floating interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The risk is managed by the Group by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating-rate borrowings by the use of interest rate swap contracts.
Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring optimal hedging strategies are applied, by either protecting the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position or protecting interest expense through different interest rate cycles.
The Groups policy is to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges tohedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
The Groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section ofthisnote.
Interest rate swap contracts The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
A portion of those are then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy in order to manage its cash flow interest rate risk.
Such contracts enable the Group toconvert borrowings from floating rates and swap them into fixed rates.
Under interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily monthly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the future interest rate curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balance at the end of the financial year.
The Group terminated its interest rate swaps during the year and did not replace them.
Therefore the Group does not have any outstanding contracts at year end.
com 168 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding asatthereporting date: Cash flow hedges Average contracted fixed Notional interest rate principal amount Fair value Outstanding receive floating, 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 pay fixed contracts % % m m m m Within one year Within one to two years 0.54 20.0 More than two years 0.69 40.0 0.5 60.0 0.5 At 31 December 2013, the fixed interest rates varied from 0.54% to 0.76%, and the main floating rates were LIBOR.
Gains or losses deferred in equity on interest rate swap contracts as of 31 December 2013 were recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same period in which the hedged item affected net profit or loss.
The following table details financial liabilities by interest category: NonNonFixed Floating interest Total Fixed Floating interest Total rate rate bearing 2014 rate rate bearing 2013 1 1 m m m m m m m m Bank overdraft 3.3 3.3 0.5 0.5 Bank borrowings 450.5 450.5 60.0 311.9 371.9 Private placement loan notes 461.0 461.0 442.2 442.2 Trade payables 29.4 29.4 32.8 32.8 Accruals 127.1 127.1 118.3 118.3 Other payables 40.5 40.5 0.6 28.7 29.3 Deferred consideration 6.9 6.9 5.5 5.5 Contingent consideration 15.7 15.7 11.0 11.0 461.0 453.8 219.6 1,134.4 502.2 313.0 196.3 1,011.5 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis A high percentage of loans are at fixed interest rates or are designated in hedging relationships, and hence the Groups interest rate sensitivity would only be affected by the exposure to variable rate debt.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit for the yearwould have decreased or increased by 4.5m 2013: 3.1m.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 169 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED E FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK The Group is a business with significant net USD and net EUR transactions: hence exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
In the absence of any currency conversion, cash positions in USD and other trading currencies, such as the EUR, would develop imbalances by growing GBP debt.
Allied to the Groups policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Group will usually seek to finance its net investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of partially protecting the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position from movements in thosecurrencies to the extent that the associated net assets are hedged by the net foreign currency borrowings.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date areasfollows: Assets Liabilities 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m USD 156.5 135.6 982.8 718.1 EUR 18.6 20.3 54.6 65.0 Other 39.0 41.3 40.4 47.9 214.1 197.2 1,077.8 831.0 The foreign currency borrowings of 877.3m 2013: 600.9m are used to hedge the Groups net investments .
Average rate Closing rate 2014 2013 2014 2013 USD 1.6485 1.5635 1.5596 1.6510 EUR 1.2422 1.1776 1.2833 1.1997 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group receives approximately 48% of its revenues and incurs approximately 39% of its costs in USD or currencies pegged toUSD.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in the USD against the GBP.
Each $0.01 movement in the USD to GBP exchange rate has a circa 3.4m impact on revenue and a circa 1.5m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to USD interest and USD tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remainconstant.
The Group receives approximately 8% of its revenues and incurs approximately 7% of its costs in EUR.
The Group is therefore sensitive to movements in EUR against GBP.
Each 0.01 movement in the EUR to GBP exchange rate has a circa 0.7m impact on revenue and a circa 0.2m impact on operating profits.
Offsetting this will be reductions to EUR interest and EUR tax liabilities.
This analysis assumes all other variables, including interest rates, remain constant.
com 170 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS F CREDIT RISK The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables Note 26 and cash and cash equivalents, whichrepresent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and other receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based onprior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
TheGroup has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited by dealing only with counterparty banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies such as Standard and Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved financial institutions.
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by theTreasury Committee regularly.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which is net of impairment losses, represents theGroups maximum exposure to credit risk.
Non-current other receivables Non-current other receivables arose from disposals made in the current and prior years as disclosed in Note 26.
The Risk Committee reviews these receivables and the credit quality of the counterparties on a regular basis.
At 31 December 2014, an impairment charge of 14.5m has been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, as a result of the Groups assessment of the recoverability of these non-current receivables.
Trade receivables Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographic areas and the Groupsexposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including default risk of the industry and country in which the customers operate, has less of an influence on credit risk.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
The Group establishes a provision that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables and investments when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
The main components of this provision are a specific losscomponent that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss provision is determined by reference topast default experience.
Before accepting any new customer, the Group uses an external credit rating system to assess the potential customers creditquality.
All customers have credit limits set by credit managers and are subject to standard terms of payment for each Division.
As the Events Division works on a prepaid basis they are not subject to the same credit controls and they have a low bad debt history.
TheGroup is exposed to normal credit risk and potential losses are mitigated as the Group does not have significant exposure toany single customer.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 171 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED F CREDIT RISK CONTINUED Ageing of trade receivables: Gross 2014 Provision 2014 Gross 2013 Provision 2013 m m m m Not past due 105.7 0.7 82.1 0.2 Past due 030 days 30.3 0.1 45.6 0.6 Past due over 31 days 42.1 12.0 34.4 10.0 Books provision see below 13.2 10.8 178.1 26.0 162.1 21.6 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due for payment are generally not considered impaired.
For trade receivables that are more than three months past due for payment, there are debtors with a carrying amount of 2.0m 2013:5.4m which the Group has not provided for, as there has not been a significant change in the credit quality and theamounts areconsidered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
A provision relating to returns on books of 13.2m 2013: 10.8m has been disclosed separately in the table above.
This provision is based on managements best estimate of previous seasonal sales and returns trends, and is included as part of the overall provision balance.
Movement in the provision: 2014 2013 m m Balance at beginning of the year 21.6 24.4 Provision recognised 10.0 7.1 Receivables written off as uncollectable 2.2 4.1 Amounts recovered during the year 3.4 5.8 26.0 21.6 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of theabove amounts.
There are no customers who represent more than 10% of the total gross balance of trade receivables in both 2014 and 2013. www.
com 172 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS G LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, though operationally it is managed by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury has built an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking and other debt facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Included in Note 32 is a summary of additional undrawn facilities that the Group has at its disposal to further reduce liquidity risk.
Historically and for the foreseeable future the Group has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Groups policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Groups interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below has been drawn up based on the contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earnedon those assets except where the Group anticipates that the cash flow will occur in a different period: Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years m m m m m m 31 December 2014 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 209.0 209.0 208.1 0.8 0.1 Variable interest rate instruments 30.0 32.7 32.7 239.0 241.7 240.8 0.8 0.1 31 December 2013 Non-derivative financial assets Non-interest bearing 188.0 188.0 186.3 0.1 1.6 Variable interest rate instruments 26.0 31.6 0.2 31.0 0.2 0.2 Fixed interest rate instruments 10.0 23.7 23.7 224.0 243.3 186.5 31.1 1.8 23.9 Derivative financial assets Derivative financial instruments indesignated hedge  0.5 0.5 0.5 224.5 243.8 186.5 31.1 2.3 23.9 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement ofFinancialPosition.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 173 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 33.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED G LIQUIDITY RISK CONTINUED Liquidity and interest risk tables Continued The following tables have been drawn up based on the earliest date on which the Group can settle its financial liabilities.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years 31 December 2014 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 453.8 458.9 458.9 Fixed interest rate instruments 461.0 551.7 19.9 17.5 255.6 258.7 Trade and other payables 197.0 197.0 192.3 4.7 Deferred consideration 6.9 6.9 5.7 1.2 Contingent consideration 15.7 15.7 5.7 9.6 0.4 1,134.4 1,230.2 682.5 33.0 256.0 258.7 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement ofFinancialPosition.
Less Greater Carrying Contractual than than 1 amount cash flows 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments 313.1 315.3 197.7 117.1 0.3 0.2 Fixed interest rate instruments 502.1 608.3 19.2 79.1 254.7 255.3 Trade and other payables 179.8 179.8 176.7 3.1 Deferred consideration 5.5 5.5 2.1 2.1 1.3 Contingent consideration 11.0 11.0 5.5 3.1 2.4 1,011.5 1,119.9 401.2 204.5 258.7 255.5 1 Under IFRS 7 contractual cash flows are undiscounted and therefore may not agree with the carrying amounts in the Consolidated Statement ofFinancialPosition.
The Group draws down on its bank borrowing facilities at floating rates of interest.
In 2013, a portion of those were then swapped to fixed rates in line with the Group treasury policy.
The first portion of these swaps that matured in a period greater than one year but less than two years was 20.0m and the final portion that matured between two and five years was 40.0m.
The Group terminated the interest rate swaps during 2014 and did not replace them.
The variable interest rate on these borrowings is reset by the bank on a monthly basis and as such it is not possible to estimate theinterest payable on these borrowings.
com 174 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS H FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction betweeninformed and willing parties and is calculated by reference to market rates discounted to current value.
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets isdetermined with reference to quoted market prices: the fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance withgenerally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: and the fair value of derivative instruments is calculated using quoted prices.
Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate to their fair values due to the short maturity of the instruments or because they bear interest atrates approximate to the market.
The fair value of all the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are the same as the carrying amounts.
I FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS RECOGNISED IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets orliabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability thatarenot based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2014 2014 2014 2014 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedgeaccounting relationships Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedgeaccounting relationships Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 m m m m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments in designated hedgeaccounting relationships 0.5 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments in designated hedgeaccounting relationships www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 175 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 34.
SHARE CAPITAL On 30 May 2014 under a Scheme of Arrangement between Informa plc Old Informa, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all the issued shares in Old Informa were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Old Informa were issued to Informa PLC the Company in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in the Company for each ordinary share in Old Informa that they held on the record date, 29 May 2014.
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 on 24 January 2014, as a private company limited by shares withthe name Informa Limited and re-registered on 14 May 2014 as a public company limited by shares called Informa PLC.
TheCompany became the Parent Company of the Informa Group and the previous Parent Company, Old Informa, was renamed Informa Switzerland Limited.
The Company was incorporated with an issued share capital of 2 divided into two ordinary shares of 100p each which weretaken by the subscribers and were paid up in full in cash.
On 13 May 2014 the two ordinary shares of 100p each were converted into two Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each and an additional 49,998 Redeemable Deferred Shares were issued to the subscribers.
The 50,000 issued Redeemable Deferred Shares of 100p each were redeemed on 11 June 2014.
On 13 May 2014 one ordinary share of 435p in the Company was issued and subsequently cancelled on 30 May 2014.
Under the Scheme of Arrangement 603,941,249 ordinary shares of 435p each in the Company were allotted to shareholders on 30 May 2014.
On 4 June 2014 the nominal value per share of the issued share capital of the Company was reduced from 435p per share to0.1p each pursuant to sections 645 to 649 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital as at 31 December 2014 amounts to 0.6m.
During the year, the Company also issued 45,000,000 ordinary shares of0.1p for consideration of 207.0m.
The share premium net of transaction costs is 204.0m as at 31 December 2014.
com 176 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 35.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES This note provides further explanation for the Other reserves listed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Reserves ESOP for shares Merger Other Trust Hedging to be issued reserve reserve shares reserve Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 5.9 496.4 1,718.6 0.3 1,216.6 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.5 0.5 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 31 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.4 0.4 Share award expense 2.2 2.2 Own shares purchased 0.4 0.4 Transfer of vested LTIPs 4.5 0.5 4.0 At 1 January 2014 3.6 496.4 1,718.6 0.2 0.4 1,218.4 Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Termination of interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Note 31 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive expense for the year 0.4 0.4 Inversion accounting 1,756.0 1,756.0 Issue of shares under scheme of arrangement 2,189.9 2,189.9 Share award expense 1.7 1.7 Own shares purchased 0.1 0.1 Put option on acquisition of non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Transfer of vested LTIPs 2.1 2.1 At 31 December 2014 3.2 496.4 2,152.8 0.3 1,653.5 RESERVE FOR SHARES TO BE ISSUED This reserve relates to LTIPs granted to employees.
Further information is set out in Note 11.
MERGER RESERVE The merger reserve has not changed since 2004, when it was created from the business combination with Taylor & Francis Groupplc.
OTHER RESERVE Other reserve includes the inversion accounting reserve of 2,189.9m, which was created from the new equity structure in May 2014.
It also includes a redemption reserve, which is the reserve fund into which profits are allocated for the purpose of redeeming or buying back shares in the Company.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 177 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 35.
CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED ESOP TRUST SHARES As at 31 December 2014 the Informa Employee Share Trust held 737,272 2013: 737,272 ordinary shares in the Company at a cost of 737 2013: 737 and a market value of 3.7m 2013: 4.2m.
737,272 shares 2013: 712,051 held by the Employee Share Trust have not been allocated to individuals and the remaining shares have been allocated to individuals in accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the Remuneration Report on page 93 and 105.
Dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Trust are waived.
At 31 December 2014 the Group held 0.0% 2013: 0.0% of its own called up share capital.
HEDGING RESERVE The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2014 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau Europen fide Recherches SA 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 20%, Shanghai Meisheng Culture Broadcasting Co. Ltd 15%, Design Junction Limited 10% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M 10%.
The Groups non-controlling interest at 31 December 2013 was composed entirely of equity interests and represents the minority shares of Agra CEAS Consulting Limited 18.2%, Bureau Europen fide Recherches SA 18.2%, Shanghai Baiwen Exhibitions Co. Ltd 20% and Monaco Yacht Show S. A. M 10%.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 2014 2013 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in Consolidated Income Statement for the year 18.6 20.4 At the reporting date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2014 2013 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Within one year 17.9 0.6 17.5 0.6 Within two to five years 55.7 0.5 50.4 0.5 After five years 26.4 21.6 100.0 1.1 89.5 1.1 Operating lease payments on land and buildings represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of six years and rentals are fixed for an average of three years.
com 178 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 38.
NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 2014 2013 Notes m m Loss profit before tax from continuing and discontinued operations 31.2 2.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property and equipment 23 6.1 6.8 Amortisation of other intangible assets 18 106.0 139.2 Share-based payment 11 1.7 2.2 Subsequent re-measurement of contingent consideration 2 1.8 2.5 Loss on disposal of businesses 22 2.8 102.7 Finance costs 12 29.2 29.5 Investment income 13 3.6 1.9 Impairment 2 219.0 66.2 Share of results of joint ventures 0.4 0.4 Increase in inventories 2.1 3.8 Increase decrease in receivables 10.5 11.1 Decrease increase in payables 1.5 21.2 Cash generated by operations 317.5 330.1 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT At At 1 January Non-cash Exchange 31 December 1 2014 items Cash flow movement 2014 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 32.0 3.8 2.8 38.6 Bank overdraft 0.5 2.8 3.3 Cash and cash equivalents 31.5 1.0 2.8 35.3 Bank loans due in more than one year 371.9 2.1 52.1 24.4 450.5 Private placement loan notes due in less than oneyear 70.4 70.4 Private placement loan notes due in more than oneyear 442.2 70.1 18.5 390.6 782.6 2.4 51.1 40.1 876.2 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures see Note 5.
Included within the cash flow movement of 51.1m is 382.3m 2013: 0.6m of repayment of borrowings and 439.2m 2013: nil ofloans drawn down.
The net movement caused by non-cash items arises from arrangement fee amortisation of 2.4m 2013: 1.1m.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 179 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 39.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, the Informa Final Salary Scheme and the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Group Schemes for all qualifying UK employees providing benefits based on final pensionable pay.
Both schemes are closed to future accrual.
Contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis oftriennial valuations using the projected unit method.
The defined benefit schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company.
The Trustees are responsible for running the Group Schemes in accordance with the Group Schemes Trust Deed and Rules, which sets out their powers.
The Trustees of the Group Schemes are required to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Group Schemes.
There is a requirement that one third of the Trustees are nominated by the members of the Group Schemes.
The Trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
Neither of the Schemes has any reimbursement rights.
The Groups pension funding policy is to provide sufficient funding, as agreed with the Trustees, to ensure any shortfall pension deficit will be addressed to ensure pension payment made to current and future pensioners will be met.
The investment strategies adopted by the Trustees of the Group Schemes include some exposure to index-linked gilts and corporate bonds.
These assets are held to provide some protection to the Group Schemes funding levels in the event of interest rates falling.
Through the Group Schemes the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: however, the Group Schemes invests significantly in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: a decrease in corporate bond yields would increase the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation: however, this would be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the Group Schemes defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation, therefore higher inflation will result in a higher defined benefit obligation subject to the appropriate caps in place.
The majority of the Group Schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation, or only loosely correlated with inflation, therefore an increase in inflation wouldalso increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Group Schemes members live longer than expected, the Group Schemes benefits will need to be paidfor longer, increasing the Group Schemes defined benefit obligations.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the Group Schemes through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact onthe overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
There are three categories of pension scheme members: Employed deferred members: currently employed by the Company Deferred members: former employees of the Company Pensioner members: in receipt of pension.
The defined benefit obligation is valued by projecting the best estimate of future benefit payments allowing for future salary increases for employed deferred members, revaluation to retirement for deferred members and annual pension increases for all members and then discounting to the balance sheet date.
The majority of benefits receive increases linked to inflation subject to a cap of no more than 5% p. a..
The valuation method used is known as the Projected Unit Method.
The approximate overall duration of the Schemes defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2014 was 20 years 2013: 20 years.
This number can be subdivided into the duration related to: Deferred members: 22 years 2013: 22 years Retired members: 13 years 2013: 13 years www.
com 180 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS CHARGE TO OPERATING PROFIT The charge to operating profit for the year in respect of pensions was 8.6m 2013: 8.7m.
The net pension charge for the definedbenefit schemes in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year was 0.2m 2013: 0.6m, of which nil 2013: nil was charged to operating profit.
The Group also operates defined contribution schemes, and contributions charged to the Consolidated Income Statement during the year were 8.6m 2013: 8.7m.
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES Informa Final Salary Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The result of this valuation determines the level ofcontributions payable by the Group.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 31March 2011.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 9.7m.
In respect of the deficit in the Scheme as at 31 March 2011, theGroup agreed to pay 333,333 by 30 August 2014.
The Group was also paying recovery plan contributions of 150,000 p. a. inrespect of the Achieve UK Learning Pension and Benefits Plan.
Following the merger of the Achieve Plan into the Informa Final Salary Scheme, in March 2013, the Group will continue to pay an additional 150,000 p. a. into the Scheme until December 2018.
The actuarial valuation of the Informa Final Salary Scheme as at 31 March 2014 is still in progress.
The valuation is expected to be signed off shortly and at this point it is likely the Company will no longer need to continue paying contributions into the Scheme.
An actuarial valuation was carried out for IAS 19 purposes as at 31 December 2014 by a qualified independent actuary.
The Scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2000 and closed to future accrual on 1 April 2011.
The Groups contribution over the year was 3.2m.
The Employer expects to pay 0.2m to the Scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2015 inrespect of the deficit payments.
The assumptions which have the most significant effect on the results of the IAS 19 valuation are those relating to the discount rateand the rates of increase in salaries, price inflation and pensions.
The assumptions adopted are: 2014 2013 Discount rate 3.6% p. a.
Rate of price inflation pre-retirement 2.2% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment non pensioners 3.1% p. a.
Rate of increase in pensions in payment pensioners 3.1% p. a.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Informa Final Salary Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 1.8m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 4.0m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 2.2m www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 181 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 39.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme The Trustees are required to carry out an actuarial valuation every three years.
The last actuarial full valuation of the Taylor & Francis Life Assurance and Pension Scheme was performed by the Scheme Actuary for the Trustees as at 30 September 2011.
This valuation revealed a funding shortfall of 2.8m.
In respect of the deficit in the Scheme as at 30 September 2011, the Group agreed to pay 27,833 per month to eliminate the deficit by July 2018.
The Groups contribution over the year was 0.3m.
The Employer expects to pay 0.3m to the scheme during the accounting year beginning 1 January 2015 inrespect of the deficit.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme liabilities are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 0.4m Rate of price inflation pre-retirement Increase decrease by 0.25% Increase decrease by 0.9m Rate of mortality Increase decrease by 1 year Increase decrease by 0.7m www.
com 182 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Amounts recognised in respect of these defined benefit schemes are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Analysis of amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 2.9 5.2 Experience gain 0.3 0.4 Change in demographic actuarial assumptions 0.1 0.5 Change in financial actuarial assumptions 11.1 3.2 Actuarial loss gain 8.0 8.3 Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of the year 5.4 17.5 Contributions 3.5 4.4 Net finance cost 0.2 0.6 Actuarial loss gain 8.0 8.3 Deficit in Scheme at end of the year 10.1 5.4 The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of the Group Schemes are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 112.0 98.7 Fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3 Deficit in Scheme and liability recognised in the Consolidated Statement ofFinancialPosition 10.1 5.4 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Opening defined benefit obligation 98.7 99.3 Interest cost 4.5 4.3 Benefits paid 2.1 1.8 Actuarial losses gains 10.9 3.1 Closing defined benefit obligation 112.0 98.7 www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 183 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 39.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme Continued Changes in the fair value of Scheme assets are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Opening fair value of Scheme assets 93.3 81.8 Expected return on Scheme assets 4.3 3.7 Actuarial gains 2.9 5.2 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 3.5 4.4 Benefits paid 2.1 1.8 Closing fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3 The assets of the Taylor & Francis Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited and Standard Life Investments.
The assets of the Informa Final Salary Scheme are held in managed funds and cash funds operated by Zurich Assurance Limited, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited, Baring Asset Management Limited, Standard Life Investments and Schroder Investment Management Limited.
The fair value of the assets held and the expected ratesof return assumed are as follows: Fair value at Fair value at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Equities Taylor & Francis 8.0 7.7 Informa 42.1 40.1 Bonds Taylor & Francis 8.5 7.2 Informa 10.5 8.8 Cash Taylor & Francis 0.1 2.0 Informa 1.3 6.9 Property Taylor & Francis 1.5 1.3 Informa 2.7 2.3 Diversified Growth Fund Taylor & Francis 4.9 2.8 Informa 22.3 14.2 101.9 93.3 All the assets listed above have a quoted market price in an active market.
The Group Schemes assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The actual return on plan assets was 7.3m 2013: 8.9m.
com 184 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS The history of the Group Schemes for the current and prior years is as follows: 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 112.0 98.7 99.3 85.8 83.6 Fair value of Scheme assets 101.9 93.3 81.8 73.7 73.1 Deficit in the Scheme and liability recognised in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 10.1 5.4 17.5 12.1 10.5 Related deferred tax assets 2.1 1.1 4.0 3.0 2.8 Deficit net of deferred tax assets 8.0 4.3 13.5 9.1 7.7 Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities: Amount m 0.3 0.4 0.4 1.3 2.2 Percentage of Scheme liabilities % 0.3 0.4 0.4 1.6 2.6 Experience adjustments on Scheme assets: Amount m 2.9 5.2 2.8 5.8 3.6 Percentage of Scheme assets % 2.9 5.6 3.5 7.8 4.9 Following the completion of the triennial valuations of the main defined benefit schemes, a revised deficit funding plan has been agreed with the Trustees to eliminate the deficits in both schemes.
The contributions for the ongoing service will be nil in 2015 asboth schemes are closed to future accrual of benefits.
In addition, the contributions paid towards reducing the scheme deficits will decrease from 3.5m in 2014 to 0.5m in 2015.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and arenot disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed below.
The following transactions and arrangements are those which are considered to have had a material effect on the financial performance andposition of the Group for the year.
TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company during the year, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings.
For the purposes of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Report onpages 99 to 102 and Note 10.
TRANSACTIONS WITH JOINT VENTURES During the period the Group received revenue of 12,000 2013: 11,000 from Lloyds Maritime Information Services Limited, ajoint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of 0.7m 2013: 1.1m from SIAL Brasil Feiras Profissionais Ltda, a joint venture.
During the period the Group received revenue of nil 2013: 1.8m from Independent Materials Handling Exhibitions Limited, ajointventure.
OTHER RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES At 31 December 2014, the Group has guaranteed the total pension scheme liability of 10.1m 2013: 5.4m.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE On 15 January 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Megaconvention, Inc. for initial consideration of4.9m and further performance-related consideration estimated at 3.4m payable over two years.
The sole event of the company is Orlando MegaCon, an enthusiast Consumer show featuring exhibits and content from the sci-fi, horror, anime, gamingand TV genres, including merchandise, memorabilia and art.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 185
