134 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Due to the technical nature of satellite communications and financial reporting we use a number of terms and abbreviations in this Annual Report and Accounts that are widely used within those industries but are less commonly used by our broader community of stakeholders.
The principal ones are summarised below.
A D ACARS DEFINED BENEFIT AND DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System is a digital Dened benefit pensions schemes provide post-employment benets datalink system for transmission of short messages between aircraft and based on an employees final salary.
Dened contribution pension ground stations via airband radio or satellites.
schemes are schemes into which Inmarsat makes xed contributions based on a percentage of an employees salary.
ACTIVE TERMINAL A terminal that has been used to access commercial services at any time E during the preceding 12 months and is registered with one of our services EBITDA at the period end.
It includes the average number of certain handheld Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is a terminals active on a daily basis during the final month of a period and key performance indicator used in the commercial and financial excludes M2M terminals.
It is a non-GAAP measure under IFRS.
ADS-C F Automatic Dependent Surveillance Contact provides an automated FANS two-way surveillance technology through which periodic reporting rates can Future Air Navigation System.
FANS-I A design is a range of FANS be specified between air trafc control systems and aircraft avionics systems.
FANS is an avionics system which provides direct data link communication between the pilot and Air Trafc Controller.
ALPHASAT A satellite developed with the European Space Agency and launched in FLEETBROADBAND 2013.
It supplements our I4 satellite constellation.
Our agship maritime service providing voice and broadband data services across the worlds oceans.
ATC ALSO ACGC OR CTC Ancillary Terrestrial Components provide communications services G from ground stations either as stand-alone services or to complement GAAP satellite services.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles is the standard financial reporting framework as dened by a body of accounting standards and B other guidance used in a given jurisdiction see IFRS.
BAND The radio spectrum is divided into different bands which each cover a GEOSTATIONARY ORBIT section of frequencies that are usually used for a similar purpose.
Bands A circular geosynchronous orbit directly above the Earths equator.
are allocated to specic uses at international level by the ITU and Satellites in geosynchronous orbit match their orbit to the orbit of the regulated at a national level by domestic organisations and governments.
earth and so remain permanently in the same area of the sky.
BGAN GLOBAL XPRESS GX Broadband Global Area Network is a high-speed data satellite network The first high-speed broadband satellite network to span the globe, from that spans the globe.
It uses powerful beams able to reach small antennas on earth providing digital connections for aviation, land and maritime use.
C COMMISSIONED TERMINAL GMDSS A terminal that is registered with one of our services at the period end.
Global Maritime Distress and Safety Service.
Inmarsat is the only approved provider of this Maritime Safety Service by the International CAGR Maritime Organization IMO.
The Compound Annual Rate of Growth measures average annual growth over a period of time and is a key performance indicator for our MSS GROUND STATIONS wholesale revenues.
Our Ground Stations connect Inmarsat satellites to terrestrial networks and the internet.
They are manned 24 7 in locations across the globe and CGU continuously monitored from our network operations centre in London.
A cash generating unit is the smallest group of assets that generates cash inows largely independently from the other parts of the business THE GROUP and which represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored The Group refers to Inmarsat plc and all of its subsidiaries.
We may also within the business.
use we and our in reference to the Group, depending on the context.
THE COMPANY GSPS Where we refer to the Company we are referring to Inmarsat plc, the Global Satellite Phone Services are our handheld products and services holding company of the Inmarsat Group.
including IsatPhone Pro and IsatPhone 2.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135 I R IAS OR IFRS RIGNET INC International Accounting Standards or International Financial Reporting A distribution partner and the company that acquired the retail energy Standards are the accounting standards issued by the International business that we disposed of in 2014.
IFRS is also used to refer to international GAAP as a whole.
S SAS ICAO Satellite Access Station is another term for a Ground Station.
S-BAND INMARSAT-2 I-2, INMARSAT-4 I-4, INMARSAT-5 I-5 The band width we are using for a high-speed broadband service under The second, fourth and fifth generations of Inmarsat satellites.
development for the EU aviation industry.
The programme will see an Individual satellites in each constellation are numbered F1, F2, F3, etc, Inmarsat S-band satellite fully integrated with a ground network being so I-5 F2 refers to the second satellite launched in the fifth generation developed with our technology partner Alcatel-Lucent.
We also use the of Inmarsat satellites.
term S-band to refer to the S-band programme in general.
ITU SCOPE 1, 2 AND 3 EMISSIONS International Telecommunications Union.
Carbon emissions as dened by the greenhouse gas protocol.
Scope 1: All direct greenhouse gas emissions.
K Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heat or steam.
KA-BAND Scope 3: Other indirect emissions including travel.
The frequency band used by our GX satellites, it has higher bandwidth than other bands allowing more data to be transmitted over the same SEP INMARSAT GATEWAY satellite capacity.
Our Service Enablement Platform for GX delivering customer support, network services and an app store, it also opens up our networks to KU-BAND innovators through a developer portal.
This is also now referred to as A frequency band used by a number of our products and services that the Inmarsat Gateway.
we procure from other satellite network operators to complement our own spectrum.
SWIFTBROADBAND A global service providing voice and high-speed data simultaneously through a single installation on an aircraft.
L L-BAND The frequency band used by our I-3 and I-4 satellites.
T TLCOMS SANS FRONTIRES TSF LIGHTSQUARED The telecommunications relief aid organisation, it is a core beneciary A cooperation agreement between Inmarsat, LightSquared LP, Skyterra of our charitable support.
Inc and LightSquared Inc for the use of L-band in North America.
TERMINALS The consumer hardware used to receive and transmit voice and data M from earth across our satellite network.
It includes antenna enabled M2M hardware such as satellite phones and on-board antennas.
VSAT Very Small Aperture Terminals are small mobile two-way satellite MBPS antennas able to receive and transmit voice and broadband data to a Megabits per second are the units used to measure data transfer rates satellite.
VSAT services are typically charged using a xed monthly fee.
in the satellite communications industry.
X N XPRESSLINK XL NETWORK AND SATELLITE OPERATIONS COSTS Xpresslink is a fully-integrated Ku-band and L-band service with VSAT The costs of operating our ground stations.
O OWN WORK CAPITALISED Employee-related costs including salary and travel costs incurred in bringing property, plant and equipment into use.
Own work capitalised is capitalised as part of the total cost of an asset.
Ship Equip is included in the results from 28 April 2011.
NewWave is included in the results from 13 January 2012.
TC Comms is included in the results from 8 May 2013.
Globe Wireless is included in the results from 1 January 2014.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2015 6 May Annual General Meeting 14 May Ex-dividend date for 2014 final dividend 15 May Record date for 2014 final dividend 29 May 2014 final dividend payment date August 2015 interim results October 2015 interim dividend payment INMARSAT CORPORATE CONTACTS Christopher McLaughlin, Senior Vice President, External Affairs David Boyd, Head of Investor Relations REGISTERED OFFICE AUDITOR BROKERS REGISTRARS 99 City Road Deloitte LLP J. P. Morgan Cazenove Equiniti Limited London EC1Y 1AX 2 New Street Square 25 Bank Street PO Box 4630 Tel: 44 0 20 7728 1000 London EC4A 3BZ London E14 5JP Aspect House Fax: 44 0 20 7728 1044 Spencer Road www.
com SOLICITORS Credit Suisse Lancing Clifford Chance LLP 1 Cabot Square West Sussex BN99 6DA REGISTERED NUMBER 10 Upper Bank Street London E14 4QJ 4886072 England and Wales London E14 5JJ CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in this Annual Report constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from those projected in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include: general economic and business conditions: changes in technology: timing or delay in signing, commencement, implementation and performance of programmes, or the delivery of products or services under them: structural change in the satellite industry: relationships with customers: competition: and ability to attract personnel.
You are cautioned not to rely on these forwardlooking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report.
Inmarsat undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forwardlooking statement to reect any change in its expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances, except where it would be required to do so under applicable law.
Designed and produced by Gather www.
london The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Inmarsat plc 99 City Road London EC1Y 1AX United Kingdom inmarsat.
