90 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Ordinary Share Share Cash ow Nonshare premium Equity option hedge Revaluation Currency Other Retained controlling 2 2 1 US$ in millions capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Balance at 1 January 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 56.5 2.5 0.6 0.4 11.5 336.7 1.1 1,125.9 Share options charge 5.0 3.5 1.6 10.1 Dividends paid 202.4 0.2 202.6 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 1.2 1.2 Comprehensive Income: profit for the period 102.0 0.6 102.6 Other comprehensive income before tax 14.7 0.2 2.7 17.2 Other comprehensive income tax 3.6 0.6 4.2 Balance at 31 December 2013 0.3 687.4 56.9 61.5 8.6 0.6 0.2 8.0 240.0 0.3 1,047.8 Share options charge 1.0 5.6 0.6 7.2 Issue of share capital 0.2 0.2 Dividends paid 212.8 0.3 213.1 Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 0.1 0.1 Comprehensive Income: profit for the period 340.5 0.6341.1 Other comprehensive income before tax 12.7 9.4 0.6 3.4 0.5 Other comprehensive income tax 2.5 1.4 0.6 0.5 Balance at 31 December 2014 0.3 687.6 56.9 62.5 1.6 8.6 0.4 2.4 371.1 0.5 1,183.1 1 The other reserve relates to ordinary shares held by the employee share trust.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Cash ows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 23 653.4 614.8 Interest received 0.9 2.6 Income taxes paid 9.5 20.3 Net cash inow from operating activities 644.8 597.1 Cash ows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 345.9 516.1 Additions to capitalised development costs and other intangibles 29.0 35.1 Own work capitalised 30.8 29.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other investments 29 46.2 3.2 Proceeds on disposal of assets 33 27.5 Net cash used in investing activities 424.4 583.7 Cash ows from nancing activities Dividends paid to shareholders 12 212.6 200.5 Repayment of EIB Facility 19 44.1 44.0 Drawdown of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 106.9 145.9 Repayment of Ex-Im Bank Facilities 19 13.4 Redemption of Senior Notes due 2017 19 882.8 Gross issuance proceeds of Senior Notes due 2022 19 991.9 Interest paid on borrowings 89.0 100.6 Arrangement costs of nancing 19 13.8 5.0 Net proceeds from the issue of ordinary shares 24 0.2 Other nancing activities 0.3 0.3 Net cash used in nancing activities 156.4 204.5 Foreign exchange adjustment 0.4 0.2 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 63.6 191.3 Cash and cash equivalents At the beginning of the year 140.8 332.1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 63.6 191.3 At the end of the year 16 204.4 140.8 Comprising: Cash at bank and in hand 16 40.7 50.4 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 16 163.7 93.9 Bank overdrafts 16 3.5 204.4 140.8 92 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Inmarsat plc the Company or, together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered ofce is 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Companys ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union EU and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities, as described later in these accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow generation and is compliant with all covenants.
As a consequence and despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report which encompasses the Chairmans Review, the Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review on pages 1 to 49.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 38 to 43.
In addition, notes 3, 31 and 32 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risk management objectives, its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit and liquidity risks.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amounts, events or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
In addition, the following Standards and Interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 2011 : IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 : IAS 32 amended Financial Instruments: IAS 36 amended Impairment of Assets: IAS 39 amended Financial Instruments: and IFRIC 21 Levies effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IAS 19 amended Employee Benets: IFRS 10 amended Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 amended Joint Arrangements: and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above new Standards and Interpretations on its results, balance sheet and cash ows.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the Consolidated profit and Loss Account from the date of establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or a business, fair values reecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, exceeds the fair value of the identiable separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are recorded in the Income Statement as incurred, in line with IFRS 3.
Where there is a revision of the estimated fair value attributed to the assets or liabilities of an acquired subsidiary which occurs after the end of the measurement period, acquisition-related adjustments are recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent upon future trading performance, an estimate of the present value of the deferred consideration payable is made.
The contingent deferred consideration is reassessed annually and any gain or loss on remeasurement is recorded in the Income Statement.
Investments in associates are initially recognised at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition the carrying value of the Groups investment in associates includes the Groups share of profit of associates, less dividends paid by the associate to the Group, and less any impairment losses.
The income statement reects the Groups share of profit after tax of the associate.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identied separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the original combination.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the US Dollar, as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pound Sterling for 2014 for the Groups Sterling operating expenditures was US$1.54 1.00 2013: US$1.57 1.00. b Transactions and balances Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the Income Statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement.
94 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument.
Non-derivative financial assets are classied as trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income, short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
In the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are classied as borrowings, trade payables, other liabilities and accruals and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash ow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on cash ow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassied to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability impacts income.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
However, where the Group has applied cash ow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
The Group also enters into minimum spend contracts with customers, known as take-or-pay contracts, whereby customers agree to purchase a minimum amount of mobile satellite communications services over a xed period.
Any unused portion of the prepaid contracts or the take-or-pay contracts breakage is recognised in revenue in line with service provision when reasonable assurance as to the breakage amount exists, or otherwise when the contract expires.
Mobile satellite communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, services contracts, other communications services and income from the sale of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion or straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement see note 4 e. Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
The Group offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided, 1 the deliverable has a standalone value to the customer if it is sold separately, and 2 the fair value of the item can be objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary benets are accrued in the year in which the associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
Termination benets are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Group recognises termination benets when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination benets, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to dened benefit pension plans and post-employment benets in respect of employees.
The Groups net obligations in respect of dened benefit pension plans and post-employment benets are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculations are performed by qualied actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the dened benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group also operates a number of dened contribution pension schemes.
Pension costs for the dened contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
CURRENT TAX The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
DEFERRED INCOME TAX Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
96 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Space segment assets Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestones, external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included within borrowings.
These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
Borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
Assets in the course of construction These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed into service.
No depreciation has yet been charged on these assets.
Other xed assets Other xed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write-off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of xed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Asset retirement obligations The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost reected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash ows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
Government grants Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
Government grants are deducted from the cost of the relevant assets to arrive at the carrying amount.
The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development and network access costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
Intangible assets arise from separate purchases and acquisitions as part of business combinations.
In addition, internally-generated intangible assets are recognised only if all the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identied: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benets: and the development cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Intangible assets with a nite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed each financial year.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed annually for impairment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 Impairment reviews At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment review is conducted.
Intangible assets with an indefinite life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment testing involves a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
CGUs are identied as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash ows that are largely independent of other cash ow streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash ows and, where a reliable and consistent basis exists, an appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous period is not reversed.
Investments Available-for-sale investments are recorded at fair value with gains and losses recorded directly in equity.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost.
Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the carrying value of non-current assets and disposal groups will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing usage, they are classied as held for sale.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Any amortisation or depreciation ceases when an asset is classied as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
Available-for-sale financial assets classied as held for sale are remeasured to fair value with the resulting gains or losses recorded through the revaluation reserve.
These amounts are subsequently reclassied to profit or loss at the time of sale.
Interest and finance costs Interest on borrowings and other financial liabilities is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest method.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted average cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities within borrowings on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-employment benets, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benets arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are not recognised unless the outow of economic benets to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur.
98 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds Convertible Bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound financial instruments, consisting of a liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt instrument.
The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the liability.
The total liability is recognised on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The equity component initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bonds into equity of the Company.
This conversion option is recognised and included directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
On conversion, the liability is reclassied to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element is recognised in the Income Statement.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is a non-GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is dened for the purposes of our reporting as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation, loss on disposal of assets, acquisition-related adjustments, impairment losses and share of profit of associates.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS The Groups operations and significant debt nancing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and to limit the impact of uctuating interest rates by minimising the amount of oating rate long-term borrowings.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a subcommittee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the financial risk management policies applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to enable prompt identication of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specic guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk see note 32.
The management of the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
A MARKET RISK i Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is the US Dollar.
The vast majority of the Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated with uctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
However, approximately 24% 2013: 25% of the Groups operating costs are denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The Group operates internationally, resulting in approximately 6% and 46% of revenue and expenditure, respectively, being denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash ows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31 December 2014 it is estimated that: a hypothetical 1% ination of the hedged US Dollar Sterling exchange rate US$1.54 1.00 to US$1.56 1.00 would have decreased the 2014 profit before tax by approximately $1.1m 2013: $1.0m : a hypothetical 1% deation in the US Dollar Sterling and a 1% deation in the US Dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2014 would have decreased equity by $1.0m and $0.1m, respectively 2013: $1.6m and $0.1m, respectively, primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash ow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 ii Price risk The Group is not exposed to significant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
B INTEREST RATE RISK Given the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets except cash and cash equivalents and non-current other receivables, income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The EIB Facility is at a variable rate whilst the Senior Notes due 2022, the Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Facilities are at xed rates.
As at 31 December 2014, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups profit after tax for the year would have been impacted by $0.3m 2013: $2.2m.
This is primarily due to the Groups exposure to movements on interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the liability outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
C CREDIT RISK Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables, other receivables, accrued income and derivative financial instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk as at 31 December is: US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 16 204.4 144.3 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 17 242.1 239.2 Derivative financial instruments 32 1.4 12.8 Total credit risk 447.9 396.3 The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2014 excluding the impact of LightSquared was approximately 66 days as at 31 December 2013: 61 days.
At 31 December 2014, $174.5m 2013: $140.5m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third-party collection processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
As a result of acquiring the assets of Globe Wireless in 2014 and the alignment of provisioning policies for uncollectible trade receivables across the Group, and assessments of the general trading environment, the provision for uncollectible trade receivables increased to $18.4m as at 31 December 2014 2013: $10.5m.
For 2014, one 2013: one distribution partner comprised approximately 12.2% 2013: 15.2% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer comprised 20.3% 2013: 24.0% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2014.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue for 2014 or 2013, or for 10% of the Groups accounts receivable as at 31 December 2014 or 31 December 2013.
The ageing prole of overdue trade receivables net of provisions and revenue adjustments is: US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Between 1 and 30 days overdue 40.2 28.4 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 16.4 30.7 Over 120 days overdue 0.2 8.1 As at 31 December 17 56.8 67.2 D LIQUIDITY RISK The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity proles of financial assets and liabilities.
100 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The available liquidity of the Group as at 31 December is: US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 16 204.4 144.3 1 Available but undrawn borrowing facilities 19 990.3 906.5 Total available liquidity 1,194.7 1,050.8 1 Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facilities see note 19.
The Directors believe the Groups liquidity position is more than sufficient to meet its needs for the foreseeable future.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The more significant estimates are discussed below: A ESTIMATED IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
During 2014, the Group reorganised its operating segments to reect the way the business is being viewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM see note 5.
As a result of the reorganisation, the lowest levels for which separate cash ows are identiable are the operating segments.
As required under IFRS, goodwill was allocated to the new CGUs using the relative value approach.
Corporate assets are allocated to the CGUs where a reasonable and consistent allocation basis exists.
Where corporate assets could not be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis they were included within the carrying amount of the total Group and compared to the recoverable amount of the total Group.
Key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount of the CGUs were as follows: Pre-tax Long-term growth US$ in millions Allocated Goodwill Discount rate rate Maritime 215.5 9.1% 2.5% Enterprise 54.8 9.1% 2.5% Aviation 46.4 9.1% 2.5% US Government 50.6 9.1% 2.5% Global Government 54.8 9.1% 2.5% Total Group 422.1 8.9% 2.5% As at 31 December 2013, the Groups CGUs were Inmarsat Global, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip.
The carrying value of goodwill allocated to the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs was fully impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat Global CGU was $407.4m.
Recoverable amount The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash ow projections derived from financial plans approved by management covering a five-year period.
For certain significant projects currently under development, a five-year period is not indicative of the long-term performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For these projects, the Group extends the plan for an additional five-year period.
They reect managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash ows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash ows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates, as outlined below.
Growth rates A long-term growth rate has been applied to extrapolate the cash ows into perpetuity.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term industry growth rates and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount rates The discount rates reect the time value of money and are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with the CGUs.
The risk premium, when compared with the Group discount rate, was consistent across each of the CGUs given the similarities in exposure to economic and competitive conditions.
Goodwill impairment No impairment was identied in respect of the goodwill allocated to the CGUs in 2014.
In 2013, an impairment charge of $144.5m was recognised in respect to goodwill.
This related to the impairment of goodwill originally recognised by the Group on the acquisition of the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip businesses impairment of $76.8m, $34.2m and $33.5m, respectively.
In addition, during 2013, $9.4m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to a correction made to depreciation in 2013 relating to prior periods in the Stratos CGU.
This resulted in the carrying value of the Stratos CGU being increased above the estimated recoverable amount of the Stratos CGU at 31 December 2012 and therefore a further impairment charge was recognised based on the revised carrying amount of the CGU at 31 December 2012.
In addition, a further $5.9m of goodwill impairment losses were recognised in relation to the Stratos CGU following an impairment review conducted prior to reclassication of certain assets as held for sale during 2013 see note 33.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101 B OTHER SIGNIFICANT IMPAIRMENT LOSSES During 2014, impairment losses related to property plant and equipment, intangible assets and other were $0.9m, $0.3m, and $0.1m, respectively.
Following the 2013 goodwill impairment review, $17.8m of impairment losses were recognised in relation to customer relationships attributed to the Segovia CGU.
This was to ensure that the estimated value in use of the CGU was reected in the financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2013, tangible xed assets were impaired by $20.5m and other intangible assets excluding goodwill were impaired by $1.1m, following an adjustment to the carrying value of the retail energy assets being disposed of in the RigNet transaction to write them down to their fair value less costs to sell prior to their classication as held for sale assets.
C PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ASSUMPTIONS The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-employment benets liabilities was 3.74% 2013: 4.72% see note 28.
D INCOME TAX The calculation of the Groups current and deferred tax balances, including potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash ows.
In addition, a contingent liability has been disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2014 in respect of arrangements which were entered into in prior periods see note 35.
E REVENUE IN RESPECT OF THE LIGHTSQUARED COOPERATION AGREEMENT In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. together LightSquared entered into a Cooperation Agreement for the efficient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
The Cooperation Agreement was segregated into phases and designed to enable and support the deployment of an ATC network by LightSquared in North America.
To date total payments of $578.0m have been received under the Cooperation Agreement, including $31.6m in 2014 2013: $nil.
The Group has, thus far, recognised $369.2m of revenue and $23.4m of operating costs under all phases of the agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group recognised $75.4m of revenue and $0.2m of operating costs, in respect of all phases year ended 31 December 2013: $12.3m and $3.3m, respectively.
On 31 March 2014, LightSquared elected to restart Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement and in connection with this election notice a payment of $5.0m was received and recognised as revenue.
As a result of the election, LightSquared has recommenced quarterly payments to Inmarsat.
On 2 January 2015, Inmarsat issued a default notice to LightSquared indicating the $17.5m payment due 31 December 2014 had not been received in accordance with the quarterly payment schedule.
As at 31 December 2014, no revenue has been recognised in respect of the amount owing from LightSquared, as the Groups policy is to not recognise revenue when there is significant uncertainty of receiving payment.
In connection with the Groups accounting for different phases of the Cooperation Agreement, the accounting method considered most appropriate to the individual phase, including the percentage of completion method and straight-line method in the case of both revenues and costs has been used.
Where the percentage of completion method was used, we have had to measure the number of man-hours undertaken against an estimate of the total man-hours required to complete the phase or activity.
Similarly, we have measured costs incurred against an estimate of the total costs required to complete the phase or activity.
The key area of estimation uncertainty relates to the Directors estimates of the total time costs that will be incurred and the Directors estimate of the percentage of completion of the time and costs that the Group has incurred.
F PROVISION FOR UNCOLLECTABLE TRADE RECEIVABLES As a result of uncertainties inherent in business activities, the Group estimates its required provision for uncollectable trade receivables at the end of each period.
The estimate is based on the Groups judgement using the latest information available: the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables at 31 December 2014 is $18.7m 2013: $10.5m.
G ALLOWANCE FOR OBSOLESCENCE OF INVENTORIES The Group maintains allowances for obsolescence against old or slow-moving inventories.
The estimate is based on the Groups judgement using the latest information available: the Groups allowance for obsolescence of inventories at 31 December 2014 is $15.1m 2013: $3.5m.
H CAPITALISATION OF SPACE SEGMENT ASSETS AND ASSOCIATED BORROWING COSTS The key judgements involved in the capitalisation of space segment assets and associated borrowings costs are: whether the capitalisation criteria of the underlying IFRSs have been met: whether an asset is ready for use and as a result further capitalisation of costs should cease and depreciation should commence: and whether an asset is deemed to be substantially complete and as a result capitalisation of borrowing costs should cease.
102 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group revised its operating segments to reect the way the business is being viewed by the CODM.
The revised operating segments are based on a vertical market presentation and are now aligned to five market-facing Business Units, being: Maritime, focusing on worldwide commercial maritime services: Enterprise, focusing on worldwide energy, industry, media, carriers, and M2M services: Aviation, focusing on commercial aviation services: US Government, focusing on US civil and military government services: and Global Government, focusing on worldwide civil and military government services.
These five Business Units are supported by Central Services which includes satellite operations and backbone infrastructure, corporate administrative costs, and all other income that is not directly attributable to the individual Business Units.
The Group has aggregated the US Government and Global Government operating segments into one reporting segment, as the segments meet the criteria for aggregation under IFRS.
Therefore, the Groups reportable segments are Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation, Government and Central Services.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment profit represents the profit earned by each segment without allocation of central costs, investment revenue, finance costs and income tax expense.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS: The tables below represent segmental information based on the revised basis with 2013 restated accordingly.
2013 restated US$ in millions Maritime Government Enterprise Aviation Central Services Total Revenue MSS and other 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 21.5 1,249.6 LightSquared 12.3 12.3 Total revenue 524.8 408.3 221.6 73.4 33.8 1,261.9 Net operating costs 108.3 140.4 106.0 6.2 252.2 613.1 EBITDA 416.5 267.9 115.6 67.2 218.4 648.8 Depreciation and amortisation 25.5 10.6 3.6 2.1 190.2 232.0 1 Impairment losses 185.2 185.2 Other 6.8 6.8 Operating result 391.0 257.3 112.0 65.1 587.0 238.4 Net finance expense 49.3 profit before income tax 189.1 Income tax expense 86.5 profit for the year 102.6 Capital expenditure 31.3 4.9 6.5 2.5 611.4 656.6 Depreciation 19.3 3.0 3.4 2.0 137.5 165.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 6.2 7.6 0.2 0.1 52.7 66.8 1 Impairment losses in 2013 relate primarily to goodwill and customer relationship intangibles of the former Inmarsat Solutions segment and the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs and have been allocated entirely to the Central Services reporting segment for comparative purposes.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS: The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas shown in the table below.
The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom, with its head ofce and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For wholesale customers, this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service, and for retail customers this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2014 2013 Non-current Non-current segment segment 1 1 US$ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets United Kingdom 82.4 799.2 94.4 774.5 Rest of Europe 476.9 619.0 424.3 266.1 North America 391.2 755.8 438.5 1,006.1 Asia and Pacic 282.7 68.9 254.7 32.9 Rest of the world 52.7 0.1 50.0 0.1 2 Unallocated 1,267.9 1,272.9 1,285.9 3,510.9 1,261.9 3,352.6 1 In line with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current segment assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
2 Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A further breakdown of employee benefit costs is given in note 7. profit before income tax is stated after charging the following items: US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 220.1 165.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 71.7 66.8 Impairment of goodwill 4 144.5 Impairment of customer relationships 14 18.1 Impairment of software 14 0.3 0.8 Impairment of services, equipment, xtures and ttings 13 0.4 20.5 Impairment of non-current other receivables 0.6 1.3 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 20.3 20.2 Services equipment, xtures and ttings 1.7 1.5 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 59.2 67.0 Research and development costs expensed 20.0 14.4 The total remuneration paid to the Groups Auditor and other member rms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited is analysed below: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Audit fees: Audit of the Parent Company 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiaries 1.2 1.1 1.4 1.3 Audit-related fees: Audit-related assurance services 0.2 0.3 Total audit and audit-related fees 1.6 1.6 Fees for other services: Tax compliance services 0.2 Tax advisory services 0.9 0.7 1 Other services 0.1 0.4 Total fees for other services 1.0 1.3 Total Auditors remuneration 2.6 2.9 1 Other services in 2014 relate to a corporate nancing transaction, while services in 2013 relate to system implementation costs which have subsequently been capitalised on the Balance Sheet.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had contractually committed to $nil of services to be completed in the 2015 financial year 31 December 2013: $0.2m for services to be completed in the 2014 financial year.
104 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT COSTS INCLUDING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Wages and salaries 200.8 201.1 Social security costs 16.5 16.6 Share options charge including employers National Insurance contribution 11.3 15.7 Dened contribution pension plan costs 7.0 7.6 1 Dened benefit pension plan costs 28 1.4 3.6 1 Post-employment benets costs 28 0.3 0.2 Total employee benefit costs 237.3 244.8 1 Dened benefit pension plan costs and post-employment benets costs include the service cost and gain on curtailment in 2014 see note 28.
EMPLOYEE NUMBERS The average monthly number of people including the Executive Directors employed during the year by category of employment: 2014 2013 By activity: Operations 784 767 Sales and marketing 300 323 Development and engineering 156 163 Administration 352 369 1,592 1,622 By segment: Maritime 356 201 Government 181 188 Enterprise 70 242 Aviation 28 14 Central Services 957 977 1,592 1,622 8.
EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Groups Executive and Non-Executive Directors are the key management personnel of the business.
Details of the total amounts earned during the year are as follows: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Short-term employee benets 6.0 4.8 1 Company contributions to dened contribution pension schemes 0.2 0.2 2 Share-based payments 6.7 6.3 12.9 11.3 1 Includes the value of cash allowances taken by two Executive Directors in lieu of pension contributions.
2 Includes employers National Insurance or other social security contributions.
On 2 June 2014, Tony Bates joined the Company as Chief Financial officer and was appointed as an Executive Director, effective the same date.
Rick Medlock resigned from his position as Chief Financial officer and as an Executive Director of Inmarsat plc on 3 January 2014.
The Annual Report on Remuneration contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on pages 73 and 74.
As at 31 December 2014, none of the Directors 2013: two were members of the Groups dened contribution pension plan.
One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan 2013: one.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105 9.
NET FINANCE EXPENSE US$ in millions 2014 2013 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 84.3 84.9 Interest on Convertible Bonds 18.3 29.5 Interest rate swaps 8.0 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 1.4 1.8 Amortisation of debt issue costs 16.0 8.2 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2022 0.5 Redemption premium on Senior Notes due 2017 32.8 Other interest 0.3 0.9 Finance expense 117.0 133.3 Less: Amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 41.9 79.1 Total finance expense 75.1 54.2 Bank interest receivable and other interest 1.5 3.3 Net amortisation of premium on Senior Notes due 2017 6.0 1.5 Pension and post-employment liability finance income 0.6 0.1 Total finance income 8.1 4.9 Net finance expense 67.0 49.3 During 2014, a non-recurring credit of $48.5m was recognised to interest expense on the Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date, due to the expiration of the bond holders redemption option in November 2014.
Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditures on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 3.79% 2013: 7.51%.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE Income tax expense recognised in the Income Statement: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Current tax expense: Current year 41.0 30.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 45.9 46.7 Total current tax credit expense 4.9 76.7 Deferred tax expense: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18.1 29.9 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 9.3 3.1 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 2.7 23.2 Total deferred tax expense 6.1 9.8 Total income tax expense 1.2 86.5 Of the total $55.2m adjustment in respect of prior periods recognised in 2014, $53.1m relates to the release of a provision for potential tax liabilities which had been recognised in 2013 in relation to the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
This provision is being released in 2014 as the HMRC review into this matter has now been concluded.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate: US$ in millions 2014 2013 profit before tax 342.3 189.1 Income tax at 21.50% 2013: 23.25% 73.6 44.0 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.4 0.6 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 55.2 49.8 Adjustments due to reduction in the UK corporation tax rate 2.7 23.2 Impact of prior year losses not previously recognised 6.9 4.3 Impact of prior year temporary differences recognised excluding losses 8.7 Impact of current year losses not recognised 1.7 2.0 Non-deductible impact of goodwill impairment 17.0 Other non-deductible expenses non-taxable income 1.8 1.8 Total income tax expense 1.2 86.5 106 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED Tax credited directly to equity: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Current tax credit on share options 0.4 Deferred tax credit on share options 0.2 1.6 Total tax credited directly to equity 0.6 1.6 Tax credited charged directly to other comprehensive income: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Current tax credit on cash ow hedges 0.2 Deferred tax credit charge relating to gains on cash ow hedges 2.3 3.6 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-employment benets 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax charge on remeasurement of available for sale financial asset 1.4 Total tax credited charged directly to other comprehensive income 0.5 4.2 11.
NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE LOSSES GAINS US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Pension and post-retirement liability 28 0.8 0.3 Other operating costs 2.7 1.1 Total foreign exchange losses gains 1.9 1.4 12.
DIVIDENDS During 2014, the 2014 interim dividend of $83.7m 18.68 cents per ordinary share and the 2013 final dividend of $129.1m 28.82 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
During 2013, the 2013 interim dividend of $79.6m 17.79 cents per ordinary share and the 2012 final dividend of $122.8m 27.45 cents per ordinary share were paid to the Companys shareholders.
A final dividend for the 2014 financial year of 30.26 cents per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of $135.6m, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015.
In accordance with IAS 10, these financial statements do not reect this final dividend payable.
US$ in cents 2014 2013 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 18.68 17.79 Final dividend per ordinary share 30.26 28.82 Total dividend per ordinary share 48.94 46.61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 13.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is charged using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and ttings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 20 years At 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group was carrying freehold land and buildings with a net book value of $nil.
Had the freehold land and buildings been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2014 would have been $12.5m 2013: $14.9m.
Market valuation is based on the Directors best estimates.
In 2014 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2014 were $1.7m 2013: $2.7m.
108 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
During 2013, the Group recorded impairment charges of $144.5m in respect of goodwill see note 4 a.
Trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are between 7 and 20 years.
The capitalised software includes the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of 3 to 5 years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development and enhancement of user terminals and associated network access costs as intangible assets.
Costs directly relating to the Groups BGAN family and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is 5 to 10 years.
Amortisation of costs directly relating to GX network access will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with acquisitions are being amortised over the expected period of benefit of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of 5 years.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Groups Alphasat satellite, GX programme and other licences acquired, and each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a nite or indefinite useful life.
Amortisation of the GX programme nite life assets will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
indefinite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 15.
INVESTMENTS As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Investments held at cost 23.5 Interest in associates 10.8 9.2 Total investments 10.8 32.7 On 7 November 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into binding agreements to sell its 19% holding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM Inc. for total proceeds of $32.9m.
The investment is classied as an available for sale financial asset.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group reclassied the investment in SkyWave to assets held for sale and remeasured the asset to fair market value, recognising an after-tax gain of $8.0m in other comprehensive income.
Interest in associates represents the Groups various investments which have been treated as associates and have all been accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Individually, all of the investments in associates are deemed to be immaterial and as a result the associates assets, liabilities, revenues and profits have not been presented.
Cash dividends received from the associates for the year ended 31 December 2014 total $1.1m 2013: $1.2m.
The Groups aggregate share of its associates profits for the year is $2.6m 2013: $2.3m and has been recognised in the Income Statement.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Cash at bank and in hand 40.7 50.4 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 163.7 93.9 Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 144.3 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 144.3 Bank overdrafts 19 3.5 Net cash and cash equivalents 204.4 140.8 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES As at As at 31 December 31 December 2013 US$ in millions 2014 restated Current: Trade receivables 220.4 207.7 Other receivables 7.3 20.5 Prepayments and accrued income 77.7 48.8 Total trade and other receivables 305.4 277.0 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 3.9 2.3 Pension asset 18.0 14.6 Other receivables 2.5 4.7 Total other receivables 24.4 21.6 During 2014, the Group changed the classication of certain accrued income accounts, which are now presented within trade receivables.
As a result of this change in presentation, $12.8m of prepayments and accrued income were reclassied to trade receivables as at 31 December 2013.
110 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED The Groups trade and other receivables are stated after provisions for uncollectable trade receivables.
Movements in the provisions during the year were as follows: US$ in millions 2014 2013 1 January 10.5 12.2 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 9.0 0.8 Utilised in the year 0.5 2.0 Provision released in the year 0.3 0.5 1 As at 31 December 18.7 10.5 1 The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables for the year ended 31 December 2014 is $4.2m between 1 and 30 days overdue, $7.8m between 31 and 120 days overdue and $6.7m over 120 days overdue 2013: $0.4m current, $1.1m between 1 and 30 days, $2.1m between 31 and 121 days and $6.9m over 120 days.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
INVENTORIES As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Finished goods 28.0 27.7 Work in progress 0.4 Total inventories 28.4 27.7 The Groups inventories are stated after allowances for obsolescence.
Movements in the allowance during the year were as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 1 January 3.5 3.3 Charged to the allowance in respect of the current year 12.3 0.2 Provision released in the year 0.7 As at 31 December 15.1 3.5 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111 19.
BORROWINGS As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Deferred Deferred Gross finance Gross finance 1 1 US$ in millions amount cost Net balance amount cost Net balance Current: Bank overdrafts 3.5 3.5 2 Deferred satellite payments 5.9 5.9 10.6 10.6 3 EIB Facility 44.1 44.1 44.1 44.1 4 5 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 68.1 68.1 13.3 13.3 6 Convertible Bonds 325.6 1.0 324.6 Accretion of principal 3.0 3.0 Total current borrowings 118.1 118.1 400.1 1.0 399.1 Non-current: 2 Deferred satellite payments 17.4 17.4 23.6 23.6 7 Senior Notes due 2017 850.0 8.7 841.3 Net issuance premium 5.9 5.9 8 Senior Notes due 2022 1,000.0 8.7 991.3 Net issuance discount 7.6 7.6 3 EIB Facility 132.1 0.6 131.5 176.2 1.1 175.1 4 5 Ex-Im Bank Facilities 568.9 18.9 550.0 530.2 18.1 512.1 6 Convertible Bonds 301.3 301.3 Accretion of principal 3.1 3.1 Total non-current borrowings 2,015.2 28.2 1,987.0 1,585.9 27.9 1,558.0 9 Total borrowings 2,133.3 28.2 2,105.1 1,986.0 28.9 1,957.1 1 Borrowings are recorded net of unamortised deferred finance costs in the Balance Sheet.
2 Deferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value using a weighted average rate of 4.7% 2013: 5.1%.
3 In 2010, the Group signed an 8-year facility agreement from the European Investment Bank the EIB Facility.
No additional funding is available under this facility, which matures on 30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments.
Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin, payable in January, April, July, and October each year.
4 In 2011, the Group signed a 12.5-year $700.0m direct nancing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States the Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility.
The facility has a total availability period of 4 years and will then be repayable in equal instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under the facility incur interest at a xed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
As at 31 December 2014, total drawings of $569.3m have been made under the facility.
5 In November 2014, the Group signed a 7-year $185.9m direct nancing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States the Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility.
The facility has a total availability period of 2 years and will then be repayable in equal semi-annual instalments over a further 5 years.
Drawings under the facility incur interest at a xed rate of 1.96% for the life of the loan.
As at 31 December 2014, total drawings of $67.7m have been made under the facility.
6 In 2007, the Group issued $287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% Convertible Bonds due 2017 the Convertible Bonds.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%.
The total number of common shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 22.7 million shares and the conversion price as at 31 December 2014 is $12.31.
The conversion price is subject to periodic adjustment if dividends paid on ordinary shares exceed dened levels.
The bonds will mature in November 2017 and can be settled in cash or converted to common shares at the prevailing conversion price at that time.
At 31 December 2013, the Convertible Bonds were recorded as a current liability due to the possibility of redemption in November 2014.
However, only bonds with a total accreted principal amount of $0.9m were redeemed before expiration of the redemption option.
7 On 4 June 2014, the Group redeemed the entire principal amount of $850.0m outstanding under the 7.375% Senior Notes due 2017 the Senior Notes due 2017.
A redemption premium of $32.8m was recognised and the remaining unamortised debt issue costs in relation to the Notes of $7.8m were written-off to finance expense.
In addition, at redemption the unamortised net premium on the Senior Notes due 2017 was written-off to the Income Statement resulting in a credit to finance income of $5.3m.
8 On 4 June 2014, the Group issued $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due 2022 the Senior Notes due 2022.
The aggregate gross proceeds were $991.9m, net of $8.1m issuance discount.
In addition, capitalised issuance costs of $9.2m were recorded in relation to the Senior Notes due 2022.
9 In 2011, the Group signed a 5-year $750.0m revolving credit facility the Senior Credit Facility with a group of commercial banks as lenders.
Advances under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 2.50% determined by reference to the Groups ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, there were no drawings on the Senior Credit Facility.
112 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 19.
BORROWINGS CONTINUED Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were initially split into a liability component of $224.3m and an equity component of $56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group as follows: US$ in millions Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7 Cost of issue 6.5 Net proceeds 281.2 Equity component 56.9 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2013 129.8 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2013 4.1 Cumulative coupon interest to 31 December 2013 30.6 Liability component at 31 December 2013 327.6 Interest charged 18.3 Redemption of convertible bonds 0.9 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.0 Coupon interest 5.0 Liability component at 31 December 2014 304.4 The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of $5.0m and accreted interest of $25.2m.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
During 2014, a non-recurring credit of $48.5m was recognised against interest charged on the Convertible Bonds arising from an adjustment to the expected maturity date, due to the expiration of the bond holders redemption option in November 2014.
Maturity of borrowings The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Between one and two years 130.7 103.6 Between two and five years 688.8 1,173.5 After five years 1,167.5 280.9 1,987.0 1,558.0 The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2022 and Convertible Bonds to approximate to their fair value see note 32.
The effective interest rates at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2014 2013 Bank overdrafts 1.25 1.50 EIB Facility 1.57 1.52 Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 Senior Notes due 2022 4.875 Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility 3.11 3.11 Ex-Im Bank 2014 Facility 1.96 Deferred satellite payments 4.70 5.10 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 20.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Current: Trade payables 136.5 132.4 Deferred consideration 2.0 3.1 Other taxation and social security payables 5.1 5.2 Other creditors 3.3 2.5 1 Accruals and deferred income 328.0 372.5 Total trade and other payables 474.9 515.7 Non-current: Deferred consideration 0.4 0.7 Other payables 25.2 25.5 Total other payables 25.6 26.2 1 Includes $208.8m 2013: $252.6m of deferred income relating to payments received from LightSquared.
During 2014, $43.8m was released to the Income Statement to reect revenue earned, based on the percentage of completion method 2013: $12.3m.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
PROVISIONS Movements in the current portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: Asset retirement Other US$ in millions obligations provisions Total Current: As at 1 January 2013 0.1 5.4 5.5 Charged in respect of current year 4.3 4.3 Utilised in current year 0.2 5.9 6.1 Transferred from non-current liabilities 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2013 0.5 3.8 4.3 Charged in respect of current year 4.3 4.3 Utilised in current year 5.0 5.0 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2014 0.3 3.1 3.4 The Groups other provisions relate primarily to restructuring charges.
The associated cash ows in respect of the restructuring provisions outstanding at 31 December 2014 are expected to occur within one year.
114 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
PROVISIONS CONTINUED Movements in the long-term portion of the Groups provisions were as follows: PostAsset employment retirement Other US$ in millions benets Pension obligations provisions Total Non-current: As at 1 January 2013 16.5 4.2 4.1 0.6 25.4 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.3 2.4 0.2 1.2 5.1 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 0.1 2.6 2.7 Contributions paid 2.2 2.2 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.7 0.2 1.2 Transferred to liabilities associated with assets held for sale 2.5 2.5 Net movement in pension asset 2.6 2.6 Transferred to current liabilities 0.6 0.6 As at 31 December 2013 17.4 3.7 1.2 1.6 23.9 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.1 0.1 4.2 5.4 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 1.3 4.7 3.4 Contributions paid 1.7 1.7 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6 Net movement in pension asset 3.4 3.4 Revision in estimated timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 As at 31 December 2014 18.4 1.6 1.5 5.7 27.2 At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, the Groups largest dened benefit pension plan was in an asset position and therefore included in non-current other receivables see note 17.
Asset retirement obligations relate to the expected costs of removing equipment from leased premises.
Included in long-term other provisions are charges relating to legal and other disputes, including notications of possible claims.
The Groups Directors have established provisions after taking into account the facts of each case.
CURRENT AND DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The current income tax asset of $8.5m and current income tax liability of $81.3m 2013: $11.6m and $100.2m, respectively, represent the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
RECOGNISED DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 for the year are shown below: As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 US$ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10.5 166.2 155.7 0.3 144.0 143.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 37.7 37.7 30.5 30.5 Other 7.2 1.2 6.0 7.2 4.0 3.2 Pension and post-employment benets 1.1 0.8 0.3 1.1 0.3 0.8 Share options 6.9 6.9 6.6 6.6 Loss carry forwards 20.6 20.6 10.8 10.8 Net deferred income tax liabilities 46.3 205.9 159.6 26.0 178.8 152.8 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same scal authority.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 The value of deferred income tax assets and liabilities included in the net deferred income tax balance is shown below: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Deferred income tax assets 26.7 21.3 Deferred income tax liabilities 186.3 174.1 Net deferred income tax liabilities 159.6 152.8 Movement in temporary differences during the year: As at Globe As at 1 January Wireless Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2014 acquisition in income in equity 2014 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 143.7 1.2 10.8 155.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 30.5 7.2 37.7 Other 3.2 1.9 0.9 6.0 Pension and post-employment benets 0.8 0.1 0.6 0.3 Share options 6.6 0.1 0.2 6.9 Loss carry forwards 10.8 9.8 20.6 Total 152.8 1.2 6.1 0.5 159.6 As at Transferred As at 1 January TC Comms to held Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2013 acquisition for sale in income in equity 2013 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 138.9 1.0 5.8 143.7 Borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 19.5 11.0 30.5 Other 3.9 2.9 3.6 3.2 Pension and post-employment benets 1.4 0.6 0.8 Share options 3.9 1.1 1.6 6.6 Loss carry forwards 7.9 0.1 3.0 10.8 Total 141.3 0.1 1.0 9.8 2.6 152.8 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Temporary timing differences 9.6 Unused income tax losses 3.1 6.9 Unused capital losses 25.1 25.3 Total 28.2 41.8 Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised gross temporary difference in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is $nil 2013: $9.1m, resulting in a deferred tax liability of $nil 2013: $0.5m.
The Budget announced by the UK Chancellor on 20 March 2013 included changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies.
The standard rate of corporation tax was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and there will be a further reduction to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20%.
116 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash generated from operations: US$ in millions 2014 2013 profit for the year 341.1 102.6 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 291.8 232.0 Income tax expense 1.2 86.5 Finance expense 75.1 54.2 Finance income 8.1 4.9 Non-cash employee benefit costs 11.3 15.7 Forward exchange contracts 2.1 2.3 Share of profit of associates, net of dividends received 1.5 1.1 Loss on disposal of assets 1.2 0.1 Acquisition-related adjustments 4.6 Impairment losses 1.3 185.2 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 2.7 1.3 Changes in net working capital: Increase in trade and other receivables 8.7 10.9 Decrease increase in inventories 3.1 6.5 Decrease in trade and other payables 61.3 35.0 Increase in provisions 2.1 2.5 Cash generated from operations 653.4 614.8 24.
SHARE CAPITAL As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2013: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 448,321,387 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2013: 448,301,122 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2014, a total of 20,265 2013: 439,276 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
No shares were repurchased during 2014 or 2013.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS The Group operates a number of share plans used to award options and shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration packages.
During 2014, the Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
Under the ESP the Company can grant Bonus Share Awards BSA and Performance Share Awards PSA, which replicate the previous Bonus Share Plan BSP and Performance Share Plan PSP awards.
The costs of these awards are recognised in the Income Statement see note 7 based on the fair value of the awards on the grant date.
Further information on how these are calculated can be found below and under Employee benets in the principal accounting policies on page 95.
Staff Value Participation Plan All options granted under the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the option holders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Guernsey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 A summary of all share activity within the Trust, which reects the options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2014, is as follows: Weighted 2004 average Shares Plan exercise available options price per for grant outstanding option Balance at 1 January 2013 814,688 77,026 3.72 Exercised International Share Incentive Plan 38,533 Balance at 31 December 2013 776,155 77,026 3.72 Exercised Staff Value Participation Plan 26,511 7.23 Exercised Bonus Share Plan 552,027 Balance at 31 December 2014 224,128 50,515 3.74 Exercisable at 31 December 2014 50,515 Exercise price per tranche 1.00 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2014 is less than one year.
Bonus Share Award Awards have been made regularly under the BSA to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Further information on awards granted to Directors can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 82.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSA are non-market based performance conditions.
Any dividends paid by the Company will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Details of the operation of the BSA can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the rules of the BSA the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSA provides non-contributory share awards that have an entitlement to dividends and no market-based performance conditions attached, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded excluding shares added in lieu of dividends will not change.
The Remuneration Committee has approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, for the Groups Business Unit presidents and certain members of staff.
The current three-year plan relates to the 2012 to 2014 financial years and awards are made according to achievements against non-market based targets.
Performance Share Award The PSA makes regular annual awards to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid between the date of award and the date of vesting in the form of additional shares.
Any such additional shares are only added to the number of shares which will vest subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
The PSA shares will not ordinarily be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon performance conditions being satisfied over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSA provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is, however, the intention of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period.
The performance conditions for the PSA are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 50-150 and FTSE 350 Indices excluding investment trusts, depending upon the year of the award, and on EBITDA measured over a three-year period.
For the awards made in 2012, 2013 and 2014, the vesting schedule is structured so that 50% of the reward is linked to the performance of TSR and 50% is linked to EBITDA, as individual performance measures.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the fair value.
118 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 25.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTIONS AND AWARDS CONTINUED The fair values and the assumptions used in the calculation of PSA awards vesting or due to vest in 2014 or after are as follows: Performance Share Awards 18 May 30 March 19 March 19 March Grant date 2011 2012 2013 2014 Grant price 6.07 4.603 7.00 7.08 Exercise price nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 32.1% 33.9% 34.1% 32.7% Fair value per share option 3.17 3.61 5.76 5.52 Both the BSA and PSA share awards expire 10 years after date of grant or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may determine before the grant of an award.
For share awards outstanding at the period end the weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the BSA and PSA share awards at 31 December 2014 is 1.3 and 1.1 years, respectively.
UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan The UK Sharesave Scheme is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 reecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% will mature in February 2016.
The International Sharesave Plan mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
Participants are given either the opportunity to receive options in the same way as the UK Sharesave Scheme, or the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares, some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A grant made in December 2012 with an option price of 4.59 will mature in February 2016.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2014 is 1.5 years for each plan.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Employee Stock Purchase Plan ESPP is for US and Canadian employees to purchase the Companys stock at a 15% discount using funds accumulated by an aggregate of 24 monthly contributions.
A grant made under the scheme in November 2012 with an option price of 4.94 reecting the maximum discount permitted of 15% matured in January 2015.
Options under the ESPP expire after a maximum of 2.25 years.
The remaining contractual life for the current grant of the ESPP at 31 December 2014 is 0.2 years.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme, International Sharesave Plan and ESPP have been valued with a Black-Scholes model using the following assumptions: Sharesave Scheme Employee Stock UK and International Purchase Plan Grant date 18 December 2012 26 November 2012 Market price at date of grant 5.93 5.93 Exercise price 4.59 4.94 Bad leaver rate 3% pa 3% pa Vesting period 3 years 2 years Volatility 33.1% 36.5% Dividend yield assumption 4.53% 4.53% Risk free interest rate 0.46% 0.36% Fair value per option 1.45 1.34 UK Share Incentive Plan The UK Share Incentive Plan SIP has made several awards and is an approved HM Revenue and Customs scheme.
Arrangements exist which replicate the awards as closely as possible for eligible international employees, using the same market values per award as used by SIP.
RESERVES Cash ow hedge reserve: US$ in millions 2014 2013 Balance as at 1 January 8.6 2.5 Gain loss recognised on cash ow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 3.0 11.6 FX movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.1 1.5 Income tax charged directly to equity 0.2 2.1 1 Reclassied to the Income Statement : Forward exchange contracts 11.7 3.4 Interest rate swaps 9.4 FX movement through cash ow hedge reserve 1.9 0.2 1 Income tax credited charged related to amounts transferred to the Income Statement 2.3 1.5 Reclassied and capitalised on the Balance Sheet: Forward exchange contracts 0.8 2 Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as ineffective 0.9 FX movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.1 Balance as at 31 December 1.6 8.6 1 Gains and losses reclassied from equity into the Income Statement during the period are included in the following Income Statement lines: 2 Forward exchange contracts previously derecognised as they were deemed ineffective were released from the cash ow hedge reserve and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in line with the underlying expenditure.
US$ in millions 2014 2013 Total net operating costs 9.8 3.2 Interest payable and similar charges 9.4 Income tax expense 2.3 1.5 Total reclassied credited charged to the Income Statement in the year 7.5 4.7 Gains and losses relating to the effective portion of cash ow hedges are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and the Cash ow hedge reserve.
When a hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement the cumulative deferred gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income and the Cash ow hedge reserve is reclassied to the Income Statement.
When a hedged item is recognised as a non-financial asset or liability in the Balance Sheet the accumulated gain or loss is transferred from the Cash ow hedge reserve and included in the initial measurement of its cost.
EARNINGS PER SHARE AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust.
US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts 2014 2013 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216 Basic earnings per share 0.76 0.23 120 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
EARNINGS PER SHARE AND ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Diluted earnings per share is calculated by increasing the weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share calculation by any potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares exist in respect of employee share options and awards from the Groups employee share plans.
A calculation is performed to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards and value of related future employee services.
For 2014, the Convertible Bonds are dilutive due to the credit recognised to interest expense from re-basing the bonds to mature in November 2017 note 19.
For 2013, the Convertible Bonds were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they were anti-dilutive.
US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts 2014 2013 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0 Interest on convertible bonds net of tax 14.4 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 326.1 102.0 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216 Share options 4,540,198 4,588,215 Convertible bonds 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 475,293,680 452,755,431 Diluted earnings per share 0.69 0.23 ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 2013 1 US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts 2014 restated profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0 Adjustments for: Provision in respect of tax liability on historic transaction 53.1 53.1 LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 59.0 6.9 Impairment losses net of tax 0.9 159.2 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 229.3 307.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216 Adjusted basic earnings per share 0.51 0.69 1 Adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been restated to reect the impact of the 2013 tax provision.
ADJUSTED DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 2013 1 US$ in millions, except share and per share amounts 2014 restated profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 340.5 102.0 Interest on convertible bonds net of tax 14.4 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 326.1 102.0 Adjustments for: Provision in respect of tax liability on historic transaction 53.1 53.1 LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 59.0 6.9 Impairment losses net of tax 0.9 159.2 profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share 214.9 307.4 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 448,089,231 448,167,216 Share options 4,540,198 4,588,215 Convertible bonds 22,664,251 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 475,293,680 452,755,431 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 0.45 0.68 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2013 has been restated to reect the impact of the 2013 tax provision.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both dened benefit schemes and dened contribution arrangements.
The Group operates dened benefit pension schemes in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Norway.
The Groups principal dened benefit pension plan is the Inmarsat Global scheme, which is a UK funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees.
The Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally qualied and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2011.
The results of the valuation, which have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2014, are set out below.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121 The Group also provides post-employment benets for some of its employees.
The Groups principal scheme is the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme, which is the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare benefit plans.
Membership of this plan is multinational, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
The plans are self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing these benets is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee groups.
Schemes denominated in local currencies are subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and local currencies.
The primary risk to which the Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan exposes the Group is the risk arising through a mismatch between the plans assets and its liabilities.
This is primarily made up of a number of strategic investment risks.
The key strategic investment risks inherent in the current investment strategy are as follows: market risk the risk that investment returns on assets are lower than assumed in the actuarial valuation, thereby resulting in the funding level being lower than expected : interest rate risk the risk that the assets do not move in line with the value placed on the liabilities in response to changes in interest rates : ination risk similar to interest rate risk but concerning ination : credit risk the risk that payments due to corporate bond investors may not be made : active management risk the risk that active managers underperform the markets in which they invest, resulting in lower-than-expected investment returns : and currency risk the risk that currency market movements adversely impact investment returns.
In addition to the investment related risks, the plan is also subject to the risk that members live longer than expected, or that the financial assumptions used in valuing the liabilities are not borne out in practice.
This could lead to unexpected contributions from the Group being required to meet the benefit payments due.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-employment benets liabilities under IAS 19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Weighted average actuarial assumptions used at 31 December: Discount rate 3.74% 4.72% Future salary increases 3.05% 3.43% 1 Medical cost trend rate 3.40% 4.00% Future pension increases 3.39% 3.32% 1 With effect from 1 January 2012, an inationary cap on premiums for the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme was introduced, set at CPI plus 1%.
The Group will pay the annual premium and any increase in percentage terms to the premium, up to a percentage amount capped at no more than CPI plus 1%.
Any increase to the annual premium above the inationary cap will be payable by the members of the scheme.
Mortality assumptions have been updated to reect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-employment benets liabilities are as follows: Life expectancy Life expectancy 2014 2013 Male current age 65 88.6 88.2 Female current age 65 90.2 90.2 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and reect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global dened benefit pension scheme and the Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benets for 2014 and 2013, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS tables with -1 year age rating for males and CMI 2011 improvement with a long-term trend of 1.5%.
significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the dened benefit obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase, mortality and healthcare cost trend rates.
The sensitivity analysis below is for the Groups principal pension and post-employment benets schemes, and has been determined based on reasonable possible changes of the assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period assuming that all other assumptions are held constant.
Inmarsat Global dened benefit scheme: Impact on Impact on benefit projected obligation pension cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.25% 5.9% 31.3% Decrease in discount factor of 0.25% 6.4% 31.5% Increase in ination of 0.25% 6.4% 30.2% Decrease in ination of 0.25% 5.9% 28.0% Mortality: -2 years for males and -1 year for females 2.6% 11.8% 122 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED Inmarsat Global post-retirement healthcare benefit scheme: Impact on benefit Impact on obligation service cost increase increase Change in assumption decrease decrease Increase in discount factor of 0.5% 8.9% Increase in ination of 0.5% 10.2% Increase in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 21.7% 20.3% Decrease in healthcare cost trend rate of 1% 16.9% 15.7% In reality there is an expectation of inter-relationships between the assumptions, for example, between discount rate and ination.
The above analysis does not take the effect of these inter-relationships into account.
Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Present value of funded dened benefit obligations pension 116.2 101.9 Present value of unfunded dened benefit obligations pension 1.0 1.2 Present value of unfunded dened benefit obligations post-employment benets 18.4 17.4 Fair value of dened benefit assets 133.6 114.0 Net dened benefit liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 2.0 6.5 The above net liability is recognised in the Balance Sheet as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2014 2013 Pension asset 17 18.0 14.6 Dened benefit liability 21 20.0 21.1 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the dened benefit obligations is as follows: Dened benefit Postpension employment US$ in millions plan benets At 1 January 2013 88.3 16.5 Current service cost 3.0 0.2 Interest cost 3.9 0.8 Remeasurement losses gains : Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.4 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.9 0.1 Foreign exchange losses 2.8 0.3 Benets paid 1.5 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31 December 2013 103.1 17.4 Current service cost 2.4 0.2 Past service cost 0.1 Interest cost 4.4 0.8 Remeasurement losses: Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 14.9 1.3 Gain on curtailment 1.4 Liabilities extinguished on settlement 1.3 Foreign exchange losses 5.4 1.1 Benets paid 0.8 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31 December 2014 117.2 18.4 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the dened benefit pension plans is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 At 1 January 114.0 96.1 Interest income 5.0 4.5 Remeasurement gains: Experience return on plan asset excluding interest income 17.7 7.4 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.3 0.2 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 1.6 0.3 Contributions by employer 1.5 2.1 Contributions by pension participants 1.5 1.4 Benets paid 0.6 0.8 Assets distributed on settlement 1.3 Expenses paid included in service cost 0.4 0.6 Foreign exchange gains 5.7 3.4 At 31 December 133.6 114.0 Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the plans are as follows: 2014 2013 Dened PostDened Postbenefit employment benefit employment US$ in millions pension plan benets pension plan benets Current service cost 2.8 0.2 3.6 0.2 Past service cost 0.1 Gain on curtailment 1.4 Net interest income expense 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.8 Foreign exchange gain loss 0.3 1.1 0.6 0.3 1.1 2.4 1.3 Current service cost is included within employee benefit costs note 7.
The net nancing costs together with foreign exchange gains and losses are included within interest payable note 9.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2014 2013 Dened PostDened Postbenefit employment benefit employment US$ in millions pension plan benets pension plan benets Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 0.3 0.2 Actuarial losses gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 13.3 1.3 4.6 0.1 Return on plan asset excluding interest income 17.7 7.4 Remeasurement of the net dened benefit asset and liability 4.7 1.3 2.6 0.1 The assets held in respect of the Groups dened benefit schemes were as follows: As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Percentage Percentage Value of total plan Value of total plan US$ in millions assets % US$ in millions assets % Equities 44.0 32.93% 39.0 34.21% Cash 0.1 0.08% 0.2 0.17% Bonds 73.9 55.31% 60.2 52.81% Other 15.6 11.68% 14.6 12.81% Fair value of scheme assets 133.6 114.0 124 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
PENSION ARRANGEMENTS AND POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan assets, which contribute over 95% of the total Group assets, are all invested in pooled investment funds, all of which are priced daily, except for the High Lease-to-Value Property and Alternatives funds, which are priced monthly.
The assets are split into two portfolios, the growth portfolio and the matching portfolio.
The assets within the growth portfolio are invested so as to achieve an appropriate level of growth above that of the plans liabilities, ensuring a sufciently diversied portfolio of investments provides the plan with a variety of sources of return, without unduly exposing the plan to a single type of risk.
The assets within the matching portfolio are invested so as to minimise the level of unrewarded risk and ensure the portfolio broadly matches changes in the value of the plans liabilities.
This is achieved by investing in a range of pooled investment funds as outlined in the table above, with the allocation to each fund determined by a combination of the following: the nature of the plans liability structure, the target level of hedging deemed appropriate to reect the Trustees risk tolerance and a fair value assessment of market levels.
Some of these funds achieve their objectives by utilising a range of bond bond type instruments, resulting in leveraged exposure which enables the plan to match a greater proportion of its liabilities than would be possible by only holding physical securities.
Instruments utilised within the funds include xed interest gilts, index-linked gilts, corporate bonds, gilt repos, interest rate swaps, ination swaps and total return swaps.
The plan does not hold any direct investments in the Group: however, due to the pooled nature of the investment funds, there may be some indirect investment.
The duration of the dened benefit liabilities within the Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan is approximately 27 years.
The dened benefit obligation within that plan is split as follows: Active members 69% Deferred members 26% Pensioner members 5% The average age of the non-pensioner and pensioner members at the date of the last statutory funding valuation for the Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan 31 December 2011 was 52 years and 67 years, respectively.
The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Inmarsat Global dened benefit pension plan during 2015 are $1.1m 2014: actual $1.2m.
Under the current Inmarsat Global dened benefit plan Recovery Plan and Schedule of Contributions there are no further contributions due in respect of the past service deficit revealed as part of the last statutory funding valuation as at 31 December 2011.
The current Schedule of Contributions requires the Company to pay 15% of pensionable salary in respect of the additional accrual of future benets for members of the dened benefit tier of the Pensionbuilder section and any notional member contributions payable under the SMART arrangement.
Contributions in respect of the Dened Contribution tier and the Pensionsaver section are paid in addition.
The next statutory funding valuation of the Plan will be carried out as at 31 December 2014.
As part of this the Trustees and Company will be required to agree a pattern of contributions to cover any deficit revealed by the valuation, along with the rate payable for future accrual of benets.
This could lead to an increase or decrease from the current level of contributions.
ACQUISITIONS ACQUISITION OF TC COMMUNICATIONS On 8 May 2013, the Group acquired the shares of TC Communications Pty Ltd TC Comms, a company based in Australia.
The operations of TC Comms have been integrated within the Government and Enterprise reporting segments.
During 2014, TC Comms changed its name to Inmarsat Australia Pty Ltd. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125 ACQUISITION OF GLOBE WIRELESS Effective from 1 January 2014, the Group acquired the mobile satellite communications business and substantially all of the related assets of Globe Wireless LLC, for cash consideration of $45.2m.
Globe Wireless is a leading provider of value-added maritime communications services to the shipping market.
The acquisition of Globe Wireless will benefit Inmarsats Maritime operating segment, with operating synergies and revenue growth expected from the acquisition.
The acquisition of Globe Wireless has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The consolidated results of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 include the financial results of Globe Wireless from 1 January 2014 the effective date of the transaction.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the allocation of the purchase consideration was nalised.
As a result of this review, we recognised identiable intangible assets of $23.6m refer to table below and goodwill of $14.7m.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Qualitatively, goodwill represents, among other factors, the assembled workforce, which is not separately identied as part of the purchase price allocation.
The goodwill balance also represents the benefit to the Group of the operating synergies and revenue growth expected from the acquisition.
The final allocation of the purchase consideration to the net assets and liabilities of Globe Wireless is as follows: Fair value Fair value at Grant date Book value adjustments acquisition date Net assets acquired: 1 Intangible assets 12.7 10.9 23.6 Property, plant and equipment 3.2 3.2 Other assets 0.2 0.2 Total non-current assets 16.1 10.9 27.0 2 Trade and other receivables 22.0 22.0 Inventories 3.7 3.7 Other assets 2.4 2.4 Total current assets 28.1 28.1 Trade and other payables 14.8 14.8 Deferred revenue 3.0 3.0 Other liabilities 4.7 4.7 Deferred income tax liabilities 1.2 1.2 Non-current other payables 0.9 0.9 Total liabilities 23.4 1.2 24.6 Identiable net assets 20.8 9.7 30.5 Cash consideration 45.2 3 Goodwill recognised 14.7 1 The allocation of intangible assets consists of $16.0m of customer relationships, $3.5m for software, $3.5m for technology and $0.6m in relation to trade names, which are to be amortised over their useful lives of 14, 3 to 5, 5, and 5 years, respectively.
2 The book value of trade receivables of $15.2m, included within trade and other receivables, approximates to their fair value and the entire balance is deemed collectable.
3 Of the $14.7m goodwill balance recognised, 75% of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes at the rate of 7% on a declining-balance basis.
The increase in the Groups revenues in the year ended 31 December 2014 included $55.1m due to the acquisition of Globe Wireless.
The impact is shown net of intercompany eliminations and adjustments as Globe Wireless is an established distribution partner of Inmarsat: therefore the stand-alone results of Globe Wireless do not represent a corresponding increase in Group results.
OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases and other unrecognised contractual commitments are as follows: As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 NonOther NonOther cancellable unrecognised cancellable unrecognised operating contractual operating contractual US$ in millions leases commitments Total leases commitments Total Within one year 16.1 13.7 29.8 18.0 21.8 39.8 Within two to five years 51.9 24.0 75.9 55.8 27.6 83.4 After five years 64.1 64.1 74.5 74.5 132.1 37.7 169.8 148.3 49.4 197.7 Operating lease commitments primarily relate to leased ofce space, including the Groups head ofce located at 99 City Road, London.
Other unrecognised non-cancellable contractual commitments relate to network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
The total of future sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 December 2014 relating to the aforementioned head ofce lease is $1.1m over one year as at 31 December 2013: $2.6m over two years.
126 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
OPERATING LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS CONTINUED In addition, the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Within one year 27.2 43.6 Within two to five years 15.9 28.8 43.1 72.4 The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity and leased equipment.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms and represent the majority of the Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Within one year 32.1 40.7 Within two to five years 12.0 44.1 40.7 31.
CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT The following table summarises the capital of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 As per Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 144.3 Borrowings 2,105.1 1,957.1 Net borrowings 1,900.7 1,812.8 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,182.6 1,047.5 Capital 3,083.3 2,860.3 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, renance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowings gross of deferred finance costs to EBITDA ratio for the year ended 31 December 2014 is 2.75 2013: 2.84.
The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS TREASURY MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial officer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash ows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering exposures up to a maximum of three years forward: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments based on counterparty limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 127 The Groups foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency transactions.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS BY CATEGORY The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for AvailableLoans and used for Availablereceivables hedging for-sale Total receivables hedging for-sale Total Assets as per Balance Sheet 1 Trade receivables and other 242.1 242.1 239.2 239.2 Cash and cash equivalents 204.4 204.4 144.3 144.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.4 1.4 12.8 12.8 Investments 32.9 32.9 23.5 23.5 446.5 1.4 32.9 480.8 383.5 12.8 23.5 419.8 1 Consists of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income see note 17.
As at 31 December 2014 As at 31 December 2013 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other used for financial used for financial US$ in millions hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 2,105.1 2,105.1 1,957.1 1,957.1 1 Trade payables and other 221.4 221.4 219.3 219.3 Derivative financial instruments 5.0 5.0 0.5 0.5 5.0 2,326.5 2,331.5 0.5 2,176.4 2,176.9 1 Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals see note 20.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the Balance Sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not significant.
As at 31 December 2014 Less than Between Between Over US$ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 195.4 276.0 876.9 1,276.6 2,624.9 Trade payables and other 195.8 1.9 22.3 1.4 221.4 Derivative financial instruments 5.0 5.0 396.2 277.9 899.2 1,278.0 2,851.3 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2022, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facilities and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations assume no changes in oating interest rates from the year end.
As at 31 December 2013 Less than Between Between Over US$ in millions 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total 1 Borrowings 487.0 189.4 1,343.7 303.4 2,323.5 Trade payables and other 193.1 1.3 23.3 1.6 219.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 680.6 190.7 1,367.0 305.0 2,543.3 1 Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank 2011 Facility and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest rate swaps and assume no changes in oating interest rates from the year end.
128 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED FAIR VALUES OF DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups derivative financial instruments consist of forward foreign currency contracts, which are primarily designated as cash ow hedges.
The fair values at the Balance Sheet date were: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2014 2013 Financial assets: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 1.4 12.1 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.7 Total derivative financial assets 1.4 12.8 Current portion of derivative financial assets 1.4 9.2 Non-current portion of derivative financial assets 3.6 Financial liabilities: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 4.5 0.5 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.5 Total derivative financial liabilities 5.0 0.5 Current portion of derivative financial liabilities 5.0 0.5 The full value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classied as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk-free rate at the period end.
FORWARD FOREIGN EXCHANGE The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2014 and 2013: As at 31 December 2014 Maturing Maturing between Face within 1 and 2 Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions value 1 year years US$ GBP contracts 66.0 66.0 2.1 Euro contracts 6.0 6.0 0.8 Canadian Dollar contracts $18.0 $18.0 0.7 3.6 As at 31 December 2013 Maturing Maturing between Face within 1 and 2 Fair value Outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts in millions value 1 year years US$ GBP contracts 99.7 74.7 25.0 12.6 Euro contracts 4.8 4.8 0.2 Canadian Dollar contracts $16.8 $16.8 0.5 12.3 NON-DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term investments, trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of borrowings, trade payables, deferred consideration, other payables and accruals.
