86 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INMARSAT PLC CONTINUED AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at five operating locations, being the UK, Canada, Norway and two locations in the USA.
All of these were subject to a full scope audit.
These five locations represent the principal business locations and account for 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identied above.
Our audit work at these locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and calculated by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or a senior member of the Group audit team visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
In the current year we visited all of the nancially significant components.
For all components we include the component audit partner in our team brieng, discuss their risk assessment, and review documentation of the findings from their work.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
OUR DUTY TO READ OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors Statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
