IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Group information History and developments The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Following separation, the Group has undertaken an asset-disposal Wales with registered number 5134420 on 21 May 2004 as a limited programme, realising, by the end of 2014, proceeds of $6.0 billion.
company under the Companies Act 1985 with the name Hackremco This programme has significantly reduced the capital requirements No.
In 2004 05, as part of a scheme of arrangement of the Group whilst largely retaining the hotels in the IHG System.
to facilitate the return of capital to shareholders, the following A small number of hotels have been sold since the end of 2013, structural changes were made to the Group: i on 24 March 2005, the most significant of which are set out below.
2154 Limited changed its name to New InterContinental Hotels Group Limited: ii on 27 April 2005, New Recent acquisitions and divestitures InterContinental Hotels Group Limited re-registered as a public The Group disposed of InterContinental Mark Hopkins limited company and changed its name to New InterContinental San Francisco on 27 March 2014 for $120 million: Hotels Group PLC: and iii on 27 June 2005, New InterContinental the Group completed its disposal of 80 per cent of its interest Hotels Group PLC changed its name to InterContinental Hotels in InterContinental New York Barclay on 31 March 2014 for Group PLC and became the holding company of the Group.
$274 million the Group continues to hold the remaining 20 per cent interest by way of a joint venture : The Group, formerly known as Bass and, more recently, Six the Group agreed to sell its 100 per cent interest in Continents, was historically a conglomerate operating as, among InterContinental Paris Le Grand on 7 December 2014 other things, a brewer, soft drinks manufacturer, hotelier, leisure for 330million: operator, and restaurant, pub and bar owner.
In the last several years, the Group has undergone a major transformation in its the Group agreed to acquire Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants operations and organisation, as a result of the separation as for $430 million on 15 December 2014, and the transaction discussed below and a number of significant disposals during was completed on 16 January 2015: and this period, which has narrowed the scope of its business.
the Group also divested a number of investments for total proceeds of $16 million in 2014.
On 15 April 2003, following shareholder and regulatory approval, Six Continents PLC as it then was separated into two new listed Capital expenditure groups, InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as it then was, Capital expenditure in 2014 totalled $271 million compared comprising the hotels and soft drinks businesses, and Mitchells with $269 million in 2013 and $133 million in 2012: & Butlers plc, comprising the retail and standard commercial at 31 December 2014, capital committed, being contracts placed property developments business.
for expenditure on property, plant and equipment, and intangible The Group disposed of its interests in the soft drinks business assets not provided for in the Group Financial Statements, by way of an initial public offering of Britvic Britannia Soft Drinks totalled $117 million: and Limited for the period up to 18 November 2005, and thereafter, the Group has also committed to invest in a number of its Britannia SD Holdings Limited renamed Britvic plc on 21 November associates, with an estimated outstanding commitment of 2005, which became the holding company of the Britvic Group on $89 million, based on current forecasts.
18 November 2005, a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks in the UK, in December 2005.
Risk factors Strategic risks The Group is exposed to the risks of political and The Group is subject to a variety of inherent risks that may economicdevelopments have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial condition, turnover, profits, brands and reputation.
This section market developments such as recession, inflation and describes the main risks that could materially affect the availability of credit and currency fluctuations that could lower Groups business.
The risks below are not the only ones that revenues and reduce income.
The outlook for 2015 may worsen the Group faces.
Some risks are not yet known to the Group due to uncertainty in the Eurozone, impact of declining and some that the Group does not currently believe to be commodity prices on economies dependent on such exports material could later turn out to be material.
and continued unrest in Russia, Ukraine, and parts of the The risk factors below are listed in accordance with the Middle East and Africa.
The interconnected nature of strategic, tactical and operational risk framework explained economies suggests any of these or other events could trigger on page 27.
Although the Group has classified each risk under a recession that reduces leisure and business travel to and a single aspect of the framework, some risks relate to multiple from affected countries and adversely affects room rates aspects and accordingly should be read in the context of the and or occupancy levels and other income-generating whole framework.
The risk factors should also be considered activities.
This may result in deterioration of results of in connection with any financial and forward-looking operations and potentially reduce the value of properties in information in this Annual Report and Form 20-F and the affected economies.
The owners or potential owners of hotels cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements franchised or managed by the Group face similar risks that on page 186. could adversely impact their solvency and the Groups ability 162 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION to retain and secure franchise or management agreements.
Strategic transactions come with inherent valuation, financial Specifically, the Group is most exposed to the US market and, and commercial risks, and regulatory and insider information increasingly, to Greater China.
risks during the execution of the transactions.
In addition, the Group may face unforeseen costs and liabilities, divergence of Accordingly, the Group is particularly susceptible to adverse management attention, as well as longer-term integration and changes in these economies as well as changes in their operational risks, which could result in failure to realise benefits, currencies.
In addition to trading conditions, the economic financial losses, fall in employee morale and loss of talent.
outlook also affects the availability of capital to current and potential owners, which could impact existing operations and The Group is dependent upon a wide range of external health of the pipeline.
stakeholders and business partners The Group is dependent upon the performance, behaviours The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely and reputation of a wide range of business partners and impact domestic or international travel external stakeholders, including, but not limited to, owners, The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could contractors, lenders, suppliers, vendors, joint venture be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or partners, online travel agents, third-party intermediaries international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of and other business partners which may have different ethical terrorism or war, political or civil unrest, epidemics or threats values, interests and priorities.
Further, the number and thereof, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial complexity of interdependencies with stakeholders is evolving.
action, increased transportation and fuel costs, and natural Breakdowns in relationships, contractual disputes, poor vendor disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local performance, insolvency, stakeholder behaviours or adverse factors impacting specific countries, cities or individual hotels.
reputations, which may be outside of the Groups control, A decrease in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such could adversely impact on the Groups performance and events may have an adverse impact on the Groups operations competitiveness, delivery of projects, guest experiences and financial results.
In addition, inadequate planning, or the reputation of the Group or its brands.
preparation, response or recovery in relation to a major incident or crisis may cause loss of life, prevent operational The Group is exposed to increasing competition from online continuity, or result in financial loss and consequently impact travel agents and intermediaries the value of the brands and or the reputation of the Group.
A proportion of the Groups bookings originate from large multinational, regional and local online travel agents and The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply intermediaries with which the Group has contractual and demand cycle arrangements and to which it pays commissions.
These The future operating results of the Group could be adversely websites offer a wide breadth of products, often across multiple affected by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and brands, have growing booking and review capabilities, and may weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel create the perception that they offer the lowest prices.
Some of industry, or other differences between planning assumptions these online travel agents and intermediaries have strong and actual operating conditions.
These conditions could result marketing budgets and aim to create brand awareness and in reductions in room rates and occupancy levels, which would brand loyalty among consumers and may seek to commoditise adversely impact the financial performance of the Group.
hotel brands through price and attribute comparison.
Further, The Group is subject to a competitive and changing industry if these companies continue to gain market share, they will The Group operates in a competitive industry and must impact the Groups profitability, undermine the Groups own compete effectively against traditional competitors such booking channels and value to its hotel owners and may be able as other global hotel chains, local hotel companies and to increase commission rates and negotiate other favourable independent hotels to win the loyalty of guests, employees contract terms.
The competitive landscape also includes other Tactical risks types of businesses, such as web-based booking channels which include online travel agents and intermediaries, and The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to alternative sources of accommodation such as short-term identifying, securing and retaining franchise and lets of private property.
In order to grow and maintain its management agreements competitiveness, the Group may consider undertaking strategic The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in transactions, including acquisitions.
Failure to compete identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management effectively in traditional and emerging areas of the business agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry could impact the Groups market share, System size, and franchise business model.
Competition with other hotel profitability and relationships with owners and guests.
companies may generally reduce the number of suitable franchise, management and investment opportunities offered The Group is exposed to risks related to executing to the Group and increase the bargaining position of property and realising benefits from strategic transactions, owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager.
including acquisitions The terms of new franchise or management agreements may The Group announced the acquisition of Kimpton Hotels & not be as favourable as current arrangements: the Group may Restaurants in December 2014 and may seek to make other not be able to renew existing arrangements on similarly strategic transactions, including acquisitions, in the future.
favourable terms or at all.
The Group may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all and may not realise the anticipated benefits from such transactions.
163 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Group information continued There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to or proceedings could have a material adverse impact on identify, retain or add franchisees to the IHG System or to secure the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable position.
Exposure to significant litigation or fines may also sites, market saturation, planning and other local regulations or affect the reputation of the Group and its brands.
the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the Operational risks supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group exposed to inherent reputation risks, including those may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the associated with intellectual property obligations of, third parties or guarantee minimum income to Any event that materially damages the reputation of one third parties.
There are also risks that significant franchisees or more of the Groups existing or new brands and or fails or groups of franchisees may have interests that conflict, or are to sustain the appeal of the Groups existing or new brands not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the to its customers and owners may have an adverse impact unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that initiatives.
This could result in franchisees prematurely brand or business.
In particular, if the Group is unable to create terminating contracts which would adversely impact the overall consistent, valued, and quality products and guest experiences IHG System size and the Groups financial performance.
across the owned, managed and franchised estates, or if the Group, its franchisees or business partners fail to act The Group is exposed to inherent risks in relation to changing responsibly, this could result in an adverse impact on its brand technology and systems reputation.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands could As the use of internet and mobile technology grows and be influenced by a number of external factors outside the customer needs evolve at pace, the Group may find that its Groups control, such as, but not limited to, changes in evolving technology capability is not sufficient and may have sentiments against global brands, changes in applicable to make substantial additional investments in new technologies regulations related to the hotel industry or to franchising, or systems to remain competitive.
Failure to keep pace with successful commoditisation of hotel brands by online travel developments in technologies or systems may put the Group agents and intermediaries, or changes in owners perceptions at a competitive disadvantage.
In addition, the technologies of the value of the Group.
Furthermore, given the importance of or systems that the Group chooses to deploy may not be brand recognition to the Groups business, the protection of its commercially successful or the technology or system strategy intellectual property poses a risk due to the variability and may not be sufficiently aligned with the needs of the business.
changes in controls, laws and effectiveness of enforcement As a result, this could adversely affect guest experiences, and globally.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or the Group may lose customers, fail to attract new customers, weakening of the control environment could materially harm incur substantial costs or face other losses.
This could further the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop impact the Groups reputation in regards to innovation.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated The Group is reliant upon the resilience of its reservations with its financial stability and ability to borrow and satisfy system and other key technology platforms and is exposed debt covenants to risks that could cause the failure of these systems While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network The value of the Group is partly derived from the ability to drive through activities that do not involve significant amounts of reservations through its reservations system and technology its own capital, the Group does require capital to fund some platforms which are highly integrated with internal processes development opportunities, strategic acquisitions and to maintain and linked to multiple sales channels, including the Groups and improve owned hotels.
The Group is reliant upon having own websites, call centres, hotels, third-party intermediaries financial strength and access to borrowing facilities to meet and travel agents.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities are only available if the financial covenants in Lack of resilience and operational availability of these the facilities are complied with.
Non-compliance with covenants systems provided by the Group or third-party technology could result in the Groups lenders demanding repayment of the providers could lead to prolonged service disruption and might funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does not result in significant business interruption, impact the guest meet market expectations, it may not be able to refinance existing booking experience and subsequently adversely impact facilities on terms considered favourable.
The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation The Group is exposed to the risks related to information Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various security and data privacy claims and proceedings.
The ultimate outcome of these matters The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, is subject to many uncertainties, including future events and integrity and confidentiality of information, including, but uncertainties inherent in litigation.
In addition, the Group could not limited to, guest and employee credit card, financial and be at risk of litigation claims made by many parties, including personal data: and business performance, financial reporting but not limited to: guests, customers, joint-venture partners, and commercial development.
The information is sometimes suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees held in different formats such as digital, paper, voice recordings and or the owners of the hotels it manages.
Claims filed in and video and could be stored in many places, including the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as facilities managed by third-party service providers.
Unfavourable outcomes of claims towards the Groups information are dynamic, and include 164 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION cyber attacks, fraudulent use, loss or misuse by employees Group operates in, brand protection, and use or transmittal and breaches of our vendors security arrangements amongst of customer data.
If the Group fails to comply with existing others.
The legal and regulatory environment around data or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to fines, privacy and requirements set out by the payment card industry prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputational damage.
surrounding information security across the many jurisdictions The Group is exposed to risks related to ethics and responsible in which the Group operates are constantly evolving.
If the business practices Group fails to appropriately protect information and ensure The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are relevant controls are in place to enable the appropriate use influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception and release of information through the appropriate channels of stakeholder groups such as guests, owners, suppliers and in a timely and accurate manner, IHG System performance, communities in which the Group operates.
The social and guest experience and the reputation of the Group may be environmental impacts of its business are under increasing adversely affected.
This can lead to revenue losses, fines, scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk of damage to penalties, legal fees and other additional costs.
its reputation if it fails to or fails to influence its business The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with partners to undertake responsible practices and engage safety, security and crisis management in ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant There is a constant need to protect the safety and security regulatory requirements.
of our guests, employees and assets against natural and The Group may face difficulties insuring its business man-made threats.
These include, but are not limited to, Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels exceptional events such as extreme weather, civil or political determined to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and the unrest, violence and terrorism, serious and organised crime, risk profile of the business.
However, forces beyond the Groups fraud, employee dishonesty, cyber crime, pandemics, fire and control, including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage day-to-day accidents, incidents and petty crime which impact the Group can obtain and the Groups ability to obtain coverage at the guest or employee experience, could cause loss of life, reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond the Groups control, such sickness or injury and result in compensation claims, fines as terrorist attacks or natural disasters, may be uninsurable from regulatory bodies, litigation and impact reputation.
or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate or insufficient Serious incidents or a combination of events could escalate insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could into a crisis which, if managed poorly, could further expose result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well as the Group and its brands to significant reputational damage.
the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave The Group requires the right people, skills and capability the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial to manage growth and change obligations related to such properties.
In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right people.
This includes hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with particular expertise or leadership capability.
The implementation of the Groups strategic business plans could be undermined by failure to build a resilient corporate culture, failure to recruit or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing economic growth, and the Group must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Some emerging markets may not have the required local expertise to operate a hotel and may not be able to attract the right talent.
Failure to attract and retain employees may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
The Group is required to comply with existing and changing regulations across numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions Government regulations affect countless aspects of the Groups business ranging from corporate governance, health and safety, the environment, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, disability access, data privacy and information protection, financial, accounting and tax.
Regulatory changes may require significant changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit the Groups strategy, including the markets the 165 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Group information continued Executive Committee members shareholdings Shares held by Executive Committee members excluding the Executive Directors as at 31 December Executive Committee member Number of shares held outright APP deferred share awards LTIP share awards unvested Total number of shares held 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Keith Barr 22,522 24,399 29,829 27,695 106,630 111,079 158,981 163,173 Angela Brav 32,724 19,286 24,473 22,501 97,462 99,650 154,659 141,437 Kenneth 7,472 1,797 8,330 8,421 64,713 41,654 80,515 51,872 Macpherson Eric Pearson 1,998 65,293 25,021 22,356 102,940 103,553 129,959 191,202 Jan Smits 30,476 106,350 32,037 28,738 104,445 116,234 166,958 251,322 George Turner 0 3,277 30,896 35,893 95,399 106,100 126,295 145,270 Details of the shares held by the Executive Directors can be found on page 74.
These shareholdings include all beneficial interests and those held by Executive Committee members spouses and other connected persons.
For further details on the APP deferred share award and for the LTIP share award, see pages 80 and 82 to 85.
Description of securities other than equity securities Fees and charges payable to a depositary Category as defined by SEC Depositary actions Associated fee a Depositing or substituting Each person to whom ADRs are issued against deposits $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof the underlying shares of shares, including deposits and issuances in respect of: share distributions, stock split, rights, merger: and exchange of securities or any other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities b Receiving or distributing Distribution of stock dividends $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof dividends Distribution of cash $0.02 or less per ADS or portion thereof c Selling or exercising Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof rights equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities d Withdrawing an Acceptance of ADRs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited $5 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof underlying security securities e Transferring, splitting Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts $1.50 per ADS or grouping receipts 1 f General depositary Other services performed by the depositary in administering $0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not more services, particularly the ADRs than once each calendar year and payable at the those charged on an sole discretion of the ADR Depositary by billing annual basis ADR holders or by deducting such charge from one or more cash dividends or other cash distributions g Expenses of the Expenses incurred on behalf of ADR holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion of depositary the Depositary by billing ADR holders or by compliance with foreign exchange control regulations deducting charges from one or more cash or any law or regulation relating to foreign investment: dividends or other cash distributions are the ADR Depositarys or its custodians compliance with $20 per transaction applicable law, rule or regulation: stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges: cable, telex, facsimile transmission delivery: transfer or registration fees in connection with the deposit and withdrawal of deposited securities: expenses of the ADR Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency : and any other charge payable by the ADR Depositary or its agents 1 These fees are not currently being charged by the ADR Depositary.
166 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Fees and charges payable by a depositary Further, a Director may not vote in respect of any proposal in Direct payments which he, or any person connected with him, has any material JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. JPMorgan or the ADR Depositary interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or is the depositary for IHGs ADR Programme.
The ADR Depositarys otherwise in or through, the Company, nor may he count in the principal executive office is at: J. P. Morgan Depositary Receipts, quorum of the meeting at which such business is transacted.
4 New York Plaza, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10004 United States This is subject to certain exceptions, including in relation to of America.
The ADR Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain proposals: a indemnifying him in respect of obligations incurred reasonable Company expenses related to the Companys ADR on behalf of the Company: b indemnifying a third party in respect Programme and incurred by the Company in connection with the of obligations of the Company for which the Director has assumed ADR Programme.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee: c relating to an Company received $490,478.87 from the ADR Depositary in offer of securities in which he will be interested as an underwriter: respect of legal, accounting and other fees incurred in connection d concerning another body corporate in which the Director is with preparation of the Annual Report and Form 20-F, ongoing beneficially interested in less than one per cent of the issued SEC compliance and listing requirements, investor relations shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate: e relating programmes, and advertising and public relations expenditure.
to an employee benefit in which the Director will share equally with other employees: and f relating to liability insurance that Indirect payments the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of As part of its service to the Company, the ADR Depositary has Directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken agreed to waive fees for the standard costs associated with as Directors or officers of the Company.
the administration of the ADR Programme, associated operating expenses and investor relations advice.
In the year ended The Directors have authority under the Articles to set their 31 December 2014, the ADR Depositary agreed to waive fees own remuneration provided certain criteria is met.
While an and expenses amounting to $20,000.
agreement to award remuneration to a Director is an arrangement with the Company that comprises a Permitted Interest and therefore does not require authorisation by the Board in that respect, it is nevertheless a matter that would be expected to give Articles of Association rise to a conflict of interest between the Director concerned and the Company, and such conflict must be authorised by a resolution The Companys articles of association the Articles were adopted of the Board.
The Director that is interested in such matter may at the AGM held on 28 May 2010 and are available on the Companys neither vote on the resolution to authorise such conflict, nor count website at www.
com investors under corporate governance.
in the quorum of the meeting at which it was passed.
Furthermore, The following summarises material rights of holders of the as noted above, the interested Director is not permitted to vote in Companys ordinary shares under the material provisions respect of any proposal in which he has any material interest of the Articles and English law.
This summary is qualified in except in respect of the limited exceptions outlined above nor its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the Articles.
may he count in the quorum of the meeting at which such The Companys shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated business is transacted.
No holder of the Companys shares will be required to make As such, a Director has no power, in the absence of an independent additional contributions of capital in respect of the Companys quorum, to vote on compensation to himself, but may vote on a shares in the future.
resolution and may count in the quorum of the meeting at which In the following description, a shareholder is the person it was passed to award compensation to Directors provided those registered in the Companys register of members as the holder arrangements do not confer a benefit on him.
The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Principal objects Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the The Company is incorporated under the name InterContinental aggregate amount of all monies borrowed by the Company and Hotels Group PLC and is registered in England and Wales with its subsidiaries shall not exceed an amount equal to three times registered number 5134420.
The Articles do not restrict its the Companys share capital and consolidated reserves, unless objects or purposes.
sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
Directors Under the Articles, there are no age-limit requirements relating to Under the Articles, a Director may have an interest in certain a persons qualification to hold office as a Director of the Company.
matters Permitted Interest without the prior approval of the Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company Board provided he has declared the nature and extent of such by way of qualification.
Permitted Interest at a meeting of the Directors or in the manner set out in Section 184 or Section 185 of the Companies Act.
Rights attaching to shares Dividend rights and rights to share in the Companys profits Any matter which does not comprise a Permitted Interest must Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys be authorised by the Board in accordance with the procedure and ordinary shares only out of profits available for distribution, as requirements contained in the Articles, including the requirement determined in accordance with accounting principles generally that a Director may not vote on a resolution to authorise a matter accepted in the UK and by the Companies Act.
No dividend will in which he is interested, nor may he count in the quorum of the bear interest as against the Company.
meeting at which such business is transacted.
167 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Group information continued Holders of the Companys ordinary shares are entitled to receive An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority such dividends as may be declared by the shareholders in general of the votes of those persons present and entitled to vote at a meeting, rateably according to the amounts paid up on such meeting at which there is a quorum.
shares, provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than recommended by the Directors.
three quarters of the persons present and entitled to vote at a The Companys Board of Directors may declare and pay to meeting at which there is a quorum.
shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be AGMs must be convened upon advance written notice of 21 days.
justified by the Companys financial position.
If authorised by an Subject to law, other meetings must be convened upon advance ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Board of Directors written notice of 14 days.
The days of delivery or receipt of the may also direct payment of a dividend in whole or in part by the notice are not included.
The notice must specify the nature of distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid-up the business to be transacted.
The Board of Directors may, if they shares or debentures of any other company.
choose, make arrangements for shareholders who are unable to Any dividend unclaimed by a member or by a person entitled by attend the place of the meeting to participate at other places.
virtue of transmission on death or bankruptcy or otherwise by The Articles specify that each Director shall retire every three operation of law after six years from the date the dividend was years at the AGM and, unless otherwise decided by the Directors, declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and will shall be eligible for re-election.
However, the Code recommends revert to the Company.
that all directors of FTSE 350 companies submit themselves for Voting rights election or re-election as appropriate by shareholders every The holders of ordinary shares are entitled, in respect of their year.
Therefore, all Directors will retire and offer themselves holdings of such shares, to receive notice of general meetings for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM.
and to attend, speak and vote at such meetings in accordance Variation of rights with the Articles.
If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded.
subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued or by proxy at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the that shareholder.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: Articles relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be the chairman of the meeting: two or more who hold or represent by proxy not less than at least five shareholders present in person or by proxy and one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
entitled to vote at the meeting: Rights in a winding-up any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy Except as the Companys shareholders have agreed or may representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting: or of assets available for distribution: any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting and on creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate at least creditors: and equal to one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares, is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one.
This distribution is generally to be made in cash.
A liquidator The necessary quorum for a general meeting is three persons may, however, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the carrying a right to vote upon the business to be transacted, shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or whether present in person or by proxy.
any part of the Companys assets in kind.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the Limitations on voting and shareholding proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are two kinds: There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Articles on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, other than the limitations election of Directors, the approval of financial statements, that would generally apply to all of the Companys shareholders.
the cumulative annual payment of dividends, the appointment of the auditor, the increase of authorised share capital or the grant of authority to allot shares: and a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending the Articles, disapplying statutory pre-emption rights, modifying the rights of any class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys winding up or changing the Companys name.
168 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Working Time Regulations 1998 Disposal of interest in InterContinental Paris Le Grand Under EU law, many employees of Group companies are now On 7 December 2014, a share sale and purchase agreement was covered by the Working Time Regulations which came into force entered into between BHR Holdings BV part of IHG and in the UK on 1 October 1998.
These regulations implemented the Constellation Hotels France Grand SA.
Under the agreement, BHR European Working Time Directive and parts of the Young Workers Holdings BV agreed to sell its 100 per cent interest in Socit Des Directive, and lay down rights and protections for employees in Hotels InterContinental France, the owner of InterContinental areas such as maximum working hours, minimum rest time, Paris Le Grand, to Constellation Hotels France Grand SA.
The minimum days off and paid leave.
gross sale proceeds agreed are 330 million in cash.
In the UK, there is in place a national minimum wage under the In connection with the sale, IHG secured a 30-year management National Minimum Wage Act.
At 31 December 2014, the minimum contract on the hotel, with three 10-year extension rights at IHGs wage for individuals between 18 and under the age of 21 was discretion, giving an expected contract length of 60 years.
5.13 per hour and 6.50 per hour for individuals age 21 and Under the agreement, BHR Holdings BV gave certain customary above in each case, excluding apprentices aged under 19 years warranties and indemnities to Constellation Hotels France or, otherwise, in the first year of their apprenticeships.
particularly impacts businesses in the hospitality and retailing sectors.
Compliance with the National Minimum Wage Act is being Acquisition of the Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants monitored by the Low Pay Commission, an independent statutory business body established by the UK government.
On 15 December 2014, a share sale and purchase agreement was entered into between Kimpton Group Holding LLC and Less than five per cent of the Groups UK employees are covered Dunwoody Operations, Inc. an affiliate of IHG.
Under the by collective bargaining agreements with trade unions.
agreement, Dunwoody Operations, Inc. agreed to buy a 100 per Continual attention is paid to the external market in order to ensure cent interest in Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group, LLC, the that terms of employment are appropriate.
The Group believes the principal trading company of the Kimpton group, from Kimpton Group companies will be able to conduct their relationships with Group Holding LLC.
The purchase completed on 16 January 2015. trade unions and employees in a satisfactory manner.
Under the agreement, Dunwoody Operations, Inc. gave certain customary warranties and indemnities to the seller.
Material contracts The purchase price payable by Dunwoody Operations, Inc. in respect of the acquisition was $430 million paid in cash.
The following contracts have been entered into otherwise than 750 Million Euro Medium Term Note Programme in the course of ordinary business by members of the Group: In 2012, the Group updated its Euro Medium Term Note i in the two years immediately preceding the date of this programme Programme and issued a tranche of 400 million document in the case of contracts which are or may be material: 3.875% notes due 28 November 2022. or ii that contain provisions under which any Group member has any obligation or entitlement that is material to the Group On 9 November 2012, an amended and restated trust deed Trust as at the date of this document.
To the extent that these Deed was executed by InterContinental Hotels Group PLC as agreements include representations, warranties and indemnities, issuer Issuer, Six Continents Limited and InterContinental Hotels such provisions are considered standard in an agreement of that Limited as guarantors Guarantors and HSBC Corporate Trustee nature, save to the extent identified below.
Company UK Limited as trustee Trustee, pursuant to which the trust deed dated 29 November 2009, as supplemented by the first Disposal of 80 per cent interest in InterContinental supplemental trust deed dated 7 July 2011 between the same New York Barclay parties relating to the Programme, was amended and restated.
On 19 December 2013, Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC, Under the Trust Deed, the Issuer may issue notes Notes which is an affiliate of Constellation Hotels Holding Limited, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantors, agreed to acquire, pursuant to a contribution agreement, an up to a maximum nominal amount from time to time outstanding 80 per cent interest in a joint venture with IHGs affiliates to own of 750 million or its equivalent in other currencies.
Notes are to and refurbish the InterContinental New York Barclay hotel.
The be issued in series each a Series in bearer form.
Each Series may 80 per cent interest was acquired for gross cash proceeds of comprise one or more tranches each a Tranche issued on different $274million.
IHGs affiliates hold the remaining 20 per cent issue dates.
Each Tranche of Notes will be issued on the terms and interest.
The disposal was completed on 31 March 2014. conditions set out in the updated base prospectus dated 9 November IHGs management affiliate has also secured a 30-year 2012 Base Prospectus as amended and or supplemented by a management contract on the hotel, which commenced in 2014, document setting out the final terms Final Terms of such Tranche with two 10-year extension rights at IHGs discretion, giving an or in a separate prospectus specific to such Tranche.
expected contract length of 50 years.
Under the Trust Deed, each of the Issuer and the Guarantors Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC and IHGs affiliates has given certain customary covenants in favour of the Trustee.
have agreed to invest through the joint venture in a significant Final Terms were issued pursuant to the previous base prospectus refurbishment, repositioning and extension of the hotel.
dated 27 November 2009 on 9 December 2009 in respect of the This commenced in 2014 and will take place over a period issue of a Tranche of 250 million 6% Notes due 9 December 2016 of approximately 18 months.
Final Terms were issued pursuant to the Base Under the contribution agreement, IHGs affiliates gave certain Prospectus on 26 November 2012 in respect of the issue of a customary warranties and indemnities to Constellation Barclay Holding US, LLC.
169 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Group information continued Tranche of 400 million 3.875% Notes due 28 November 2022 $400 Million Term Loan Facility 2012 Issuance.
On 13 January 2015, the Company signed a six-month $400 million term loan facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch The Final Terms issued under each of the 2009 Issuance and the International Limited as arranger, facility agent and lender.
The 2012 Issuance provide that the holders of the Notes have the right Company may elect to extend the repayment date by up to two to repayment if the Notes: a become non-investment grade further periods of six months.
within the period commencing on the date of announcement of a change of control and ending 90 days after the change of control The interest margin payable on borrowings is LIBOR 0.6%, Change of Control Period and are not subsequently, within the increasing to LIBOR 0.8% and LIBOR 1.0% for the first and Change of Control Period, reinstated to investment grade: b are second six-month extension periods respectively.
The facility downgraded from a non-investment grade and are not reinstated was fully drawn at 16 February 2015. to its earlier credit rating or better within the Change of Control Period: or c are not credit rated and do not become investmentgrade credit rated by the end of the Change of Control Period.
Legal proceedings Further details of the Programme and the Notes are set out in the Group companies have extensive operations in the UK, as well as Base Prospectus, a copy of which is available as is a copy of each internationally, and are involved in a number of legal claims and of the Final Terms dated 7 December 2009 relating to the 2009 proceedings incidental to those operations.
It is the Companys view Issuance and the Final Terms dated 26 November 2012 relating to that such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, have the 2012 Issuance on the Companys website at www.
com not in the recent past and are not likely to have a significant effect investors under financial library for 2009.
The Notes issued on the Groups financial position or profitability.
Notwithstanding pursuant to the 2009 Issuance and the Notes issued pursuant the above, the Company notes the matters set out below.
Litigation to the 2012 Issuance are referred to as 250 million 6% bonds is inherently unpredictable and, as at 16 February 2015, the and the 400 million 3.875% bonds respectively in the Group outcome of these matters cannot be reasonably determined.
A claim was filed on 9 July 2013 by Pan-American Life On 27 November 2009, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into Insurance Company against Louisiana Acquisitions Corp. and an agency agreement Agency Agreement with HSBC Bank plc InterContinental Hotels Corporation IHC.
The claimant identified as principal paying agent and the Trustee, pursuant to which the eight causes of action: breach of contract: breach of partnership, Issuer and the Guarantors appointed paying agents and calculation fiduciary duties and good faith obligations: fraud: civil conspiracy: agents in connection with the Programme and the Notes.
conversion: unfair trade practices: unjust enrichment: and alter Under the Agency Agreement, each of the Issuer and the ego.
As at 16 February 2015, the likelihood of a favourable or Guarantors has given a customary indemnity in favour of the unfavourable result cannot be reasonably determined and it is paying agents and the calculation agents.
There was no change not possible to determine whether any loss is probable or to to the Agency Agreement in 2011 or 2012. estimate the amount of any loss.
On 9 November 2012, the Issuer and the Guarantors entered into On 31 July 2012, the UKs Office of Fair Trading OFT issued a a dealer agreement Dealer Agreement with HSBC Bank plc as Statement of Objections alleging that the Company together with arranger and Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Booking.
com B. V. and Expedia, Inc. had infringed competition law Lloyds TSB Bank plc, Merrill Lynch International, Mitsubishi UFJ in relation to the online supply of room-only hotel accommodation Securities International plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc by online travel agents.
as dealers Dealers, pursuant to which the Dealers were The Company has co-operated fully with the investigation.
On appointed in connection with the Programme and the Notes.
31 January 2014, the OFT announced its decision to accept a series Under the Dealer Agreement, each of the Issuer and the of commitments and to conclude its investigation without any Guarantors has given customary warranties and indemnities finding of infringement or wrongdoing, or the imposition of any fine.
On 26 September 2014, the Competition Appeal Tribunal allowed an appeal brought by Skyscanner Limited and quashed the decision Syndicated Facility to accept the commitments.
The Competition and Markets On 7 November 2011, the Company signed a five-year $1.07 Authority the OFTs successor has decided not to appeal the billion bank facility agreement with The Royal Bank of Scotland judgment of the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
As at 16 February plc, NB International Finance B. V. Citigroup Global Markets 2015, the likelihood of a favourable or unfavourable result cannot Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Bank of be reasonably determined and it is not possible to determine Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. all acting as mandated lead arrangers whether any loss is probable or to estimate the amount of any loss.
and Banc of America Securities Limited as facility agent Syndicated Facility.
A class-action claim was filed on 3 July 2012 by two claimants alleging that InterContinental Hotels of San Francisco, Inc. and The interest margin payable on borrowings under the Syndicated InterContinental Hotels Group Resources, Inc. violated California Facility is linked to IHGs consolidated net debt to consolidated Penal Code 632.7, based upon the alleged improper recording of EBITDA ratio.
The margin can vary between LIBOR 0.90% cellular phone calls originating from California to IHG customer care and LIBOR 1.70% depending on the level of the ratio.
The claimants subsequently amended the 31 December 2014, tranches in the sums of US$270m and claim to include Six Continents Hotels, Inc. We are currently involved 75m had been drawn down under the Syndicated Facility.
in settlement discussions with respect to this claim.
