IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Forward-looking statements The Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 contain certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of InterContinental Hotels Group and certain plans and objectives of the Board of Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC with respect thereto.
Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements made in the Chairmans Statement and in the Chief Executive Officers Review.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based on assumptions and assessments made by InterContinental Hotels Groups management in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors, they believe to be appropriate.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
Thereareanumber of factors that could cause actual results anddevelopments to differ materially from those expressed in, orimplied by, such forwardlooking statements, including, but notlimited to: the risks of the effect of political and economic developments: the risk of events that adversely impact domestic orinternational travel: the risks of the hotel industry supply and demand cycle: the Group being subject to a competitive and changing industry: the Groups exposure to risks related to executing and realising benefits from strategic transactions, including acquisitions: the Groups dependence upon a wide range ofexternal stakeholders and business partners: the Groups exposure to increasing competition from online travel agents and intermediaries: the risks related to identifying, securing and retaining franchise and management agreements: the risks in relation to changing technology and systems: the risks associated with the Groups financial stability and its ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants: the risk of litigation: the Groups reliance on the reputation of its brands and exposure to inherent reputation risks, including those associated with intellectual property: the risks involved in the Groups reliance upon its reservations system and other key technology platforms, and the risks that could cause the failure of these systems: the risks related to information security and data privacy: the risks associated with safety, security and crisis management: the ability to acquire and retain the right people, skills and capability to manage growth and change: compliance with existing and changing regulations across numerous countries, territories and jurisdictions: the risks related to ethics and responsible business practices: and the risks associated with insuring its business.
The main factors that could affect the business and financial results are described in the Strategic Report of the Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014.
Designed and produced by Addison Group www.
net Managed by RR Donnelley This Report is printed on Satimatt Green which is manufactured using 75% post-consumer recycled fibre and25% FSC certified virgin fibre.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are ISO14001 and FSC certified.
186 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 www.
com InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Tel 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Web www.
com Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
