GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Accounting policies General information Presentational currency This document constitutes the Annual Report and Financial The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions Statements in accordance with UK Listing Rules requirements ofUS dollars following a management decision to change the and the Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the US reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Prior to 2013 the Group issued made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating separate documents.
profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarlinked currencies.
The Consolidated Financial Statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution ontransition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the basis of the Directors on 16 February 2015.
InterContinental Hotels that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
Equity Group PLC the Company is incorporated and domiciled in share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares held by Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant exchange Changes in accounting policies differences are recorded in other reserves.
With effect from 1 January 2014, the Group has adopted Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32.
The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling The amendments clarify that to offset financial assets and financial since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United liabilities, the Groups right of offset must be legally enforceable Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose in the normal course of business, in the event of default, and in primary activity is the payment and receipt of sterling dividends the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all of the and of interest on sterling denominated external borrowings and counterparties.
Following a detailed review of the Groups cash inter-company balances.
pooling arrangements which have previously been presented net Basis of consolidation within cash and cash equivalents see note 17, management have The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial determined that the right of offset is not enforceable in all of the Statements of the parent company and entities controlled by above circumstances.
As a result, the overdrafts within the cash the Group.
Control exists when the Group has: pools are now presented as current loans and other borrowings.
The amendments to IAS 32 are applicable retrospectively, requiring power over an investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current the restatement of prior year comparatives and the presentation ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee : of a third statement of financial position as at 31 December 2012 exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement as required by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
with the investee: and The adoption of the amendments to IAS 32 increases cash and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
cash equivalents and current loans and other borrowings by $107m All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in 2014 2013 $114m, 2012 $192m but has no impact on the net onconsolidation.
financial position of the Group nor the reporting of net debt.
Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Group statement of cash The assets, liabilities and results of those businesses acquired flows continue to be presented net of overdrafts as permitted by or disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
were under the Groups control.
In addition, with effect from 1 January 2014, the Group has adopted The Group operates a deferred compensation plan in the US Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets Recoverable which allows certain employees to make additional provision for Amount Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets, Amendment to IAS retirement, through the deferral of salary with matching company 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting contributions.
Employees can draw down on the plan in certain and IFRIC 21 Levies.
The adoption of these amendments to limited circumstances during employment.
The assets of the plan standards and interpretations has had no material impact on the are held in a company-owned trust which is not consolidated as Groups financial performance or position and there has been no the relevant activity of the trust, being the investment of the funds requirement to restate prior year comparatives.
in the trust, is directed by the participating employees of the plan and the company has no exposure to the gains and losses resulting Summary of significant accounting policies from those investment decisions.
The assets of the trust are held Basis of preparation solely for the benefit of the participating employees and to pay plan The Consolidated Financial Statements of IHG have been prepared expenses, other than in the case of a company insolvency in which on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, case they can be claimed by the general creditors of the company.
except for available-for-sale equity securities and derivatives At 31 December 2014, the trust had assets with a fair value of which are measured at fair value.
Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the IASB and in accordance with IFRS asadopted by the European Union EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
However, the differences have no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements for the years presented.
107 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Goodwill Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to functional Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency and contingent liabilities.
Transaction costs are expensed and at the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the are not included in the cost of acquisition.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency impairment losses.
borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at amounts.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, Software are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange Acquired and internally developed software are capitalised on the ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific of foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average software.
Costs are amortised over estimated useful lives of three rates of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising to five years on a straight-line basis.
on the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount Internally generated development costs are expensed unless recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that forecast revenues exceed attributable forecast development particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain or loss costs, in which case they are capitalised and amortised over on disposal.
the estimated useful life of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment Management contracts Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise and any impairment.
or management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
of the contract entered into.
The value of management contracts Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful including any extension periods at IHGs option up to a maximum lives, namely: of 50 years.
buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and Other intangible assets Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
and franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised on All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives up to a is re-assessed annually.
In prior years this has been determined to be the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years.
Following a Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when detailed review in early 2014 and based on the Groups experience events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the actual contractual periods secured by these payments, the may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent estimate of useful life has been re-assessed to comprise the full cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying contract term, which is also consistent with the stated policy of values exceed their estimated recoverable amount, the assets other companies in the hotel industry.
This revision to the estimate or cash-generating units are written down to the recoverable of expected useful lives has been applied prospectively in amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs accordance with IAS 38 and results in the following decrease of disposal and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on increase in the original amortisation profile of assets capitalised estimated future cash flows discounted to their present value using at 1 January 2014: 2014 $ 5 m, 2015 $ 5 m, 2016 $ 4 m, 2017 $ 3 m, a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 2018 and after $17m in total.
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses, and any subsequent reversals, are recognised Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or in the income statement.
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of property, plant and equipment which are included at deemed cost as permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
108 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Borrowing costs Trade receivables Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less of property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for 100% of the previous months aged receivables balances which their intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset are more than 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may cost.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that be made due to specific or exceptional circumstances.
The an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use All borrowing costs relating to projects commencing before of a provision account and movements in the provision are 1 January 2009 were expensed.
recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is uncollectable, it is Associates and joint ventures written off against the provision.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the Cash and cash equivalents financial and operating policy decisions of the entity, but is not Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
control or joint control over those policies.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with A joint venture exists when two or more parties have joint control an original maturity of three months or less that are readily over, and rights to the net assets of, the venture.
Joint control is convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant the contractually agreed sharing of control which only exists when risk of changes in value.
decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consent of the parties sharing control.
are shown net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash method unless the associate or joint venture is classified as held management.
Under the equity method, the Groups investment is Assets held for sale recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups share of post-acquisition Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their profits and losses and other movements in the investees reserves.
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is highly associate or joint venture, the Groups carrying amount is reduced probable and expected to complete within one year.
For a sale to $nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to be highly probable, management need to be committed to a plan to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive to sell the asset and the asset must be actively marketed for sale obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate or at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying Financial assets amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment financial assets.
Management determines the classification of classified as held for sale.
financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently Financial liabilities held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and effective interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method when the obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
amount is reported in the Group statement of financial position if Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
To meet Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end this criteria, the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future date.
In the case of an equity investment classified as availableevent and must be legally enforceable in all of the following for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost circumstances: the normal course of business, the event of default is evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an available-for-sale and the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group and all of financial asset is impaired, the difference between original cost the counterparties.
and fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the extent of any cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the income statement.
Subsequent impairment reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are recorded in equity.
109 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Accounting policies continued Trade payables An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the nominal value.
economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Bank and other borrowings In respect of litigation, provision is made when management Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair consider it probable that payment may occur even though the value of the consideration received less directly attributable defence of the related claim may still be ongoing through the transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised court process.
Finance charges, including the transaction costs and any Taxes discount or premium on issue, are recognised in the income Current tax statement using the effective interest rate method.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be date is more than 12 months from the period-end date or where recovered from or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the end of Derivative financial instruments and hedging the reporting period.
Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the re-measurement Deferred tax depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value of assets and liabilities including accelerated capital allowances, Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from subsidiaries, hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the gains rolled over into replacement assets, gains on previously unrealised gains and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges revalued properties and other short-term temporary differences.
When the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative gains and losses on the related hedging instrument are Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded reclassified to the income statement.
as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net re-assessed at the end of each reporting period.
investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected are effective.
The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, until a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not Retirement benefits beendesignated as hedging instruments or relate to the Defined contribution plans ineffective portion of hedges are recognised immediately Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the in the income statement.
income statement as they fall due.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness Defined benefit plans of any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life Plan assets, including qualifying insurance policies, are measured of the hedge relationship.
at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounting Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a isrecorded in either financial income or expenses over the term of high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the hedging the plan liabilities.
The difference between the value of plan assets relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
and liabilities at the period-end date is the amount of surplus or Self insurance deficit recorded in the statement of financial position as an asset Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected or liability.
An asset is recognised when the employer has an settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
unconditional right to use the surplus at some point during the Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends life of the plan or on its wind-up.
If a refund would be subject to and actuarial data.
a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability is also recorded Provisions for any such tax that would be payable in respect of funding Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present commitments based on the accounting assumption that the obligationas a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment related payments increase the asset.
will be made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can bemade.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, theprovision is discounted using a current pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
110 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees, Franchise fees and management fees include liquidated damages together with the net interest expense or income for the year, is received from the early termination of contracts.
charged to the income statement within administration expenses.
Other revenues are recognised when earned in accordance with Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net the terms of the contract.
defined benefit asset or liability, after any asset restriction.
Past service costs and gains, which are the change in the present value Government grants of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior Government grants are recognised in the period to which they periods resulting from plan amendments, are recognised relate when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will immediately the plan amendment occurs.
Settlement gains and be received and that the Group will comply with the attached losses, being the difference between the settlement cost and the conditions.
Government grants are recognised within other present value of the defined benefit obligations being settled, are operating income and expenses in the Group income statement.
recognised when the settlement occurs.
Share-based payments Re-measurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, the The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest measured by reference to fair value at the date at which the right and changes in the amount of any asset restrictions.
Actuarial to the shares is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external gains and losses may result from: differences between the valuer using option pricing models.
actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together actual experience during the year or changes in the actuarial with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on Re-measurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not to the award vesting date.
reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
The income statement charge for a period represents the Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and are updated for material transactions and other material and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that changes in circumstances including changes in market prices do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is and interest rates up to the end of the reporting period.
conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are Revenue recognition treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other where these activities give rise to economic benefits received and performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
receivable by the Group on its own account and result in increases Leases in equity.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
management fees: owned and leased properties and other Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of including technology fee income.
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with Revenue is recorded excluding VAT and similar taxes net of a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the discounts.
The following is a description of the composition leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease of revenues of the Group: payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income Franchise fees received in connection with the licence of the statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful percentage of rooms revenue.
Revenue is recognised when the life of the asset and the lease term.
fee is earned in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Disposal of non-current assets Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, The Group recognises sales proceeds and any related gain or loss usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
on disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining Management fees include a base fee, generally a percentage of whether the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers hotel revenue, which is recognised when earned in accordance whether it: with the terms of the contract and an incentive fee, generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows and recognised has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree when the related performance criteria are met under the terms associated with asset ownership: of the contract.
has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated with asset ownership: and Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and beverages are sold.
111 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Accounting policies continued Fair value measurement Critical accounting policies and the use of judgements, The Group measures available-for-sale equity securities and estimates and assumptions derivatives at fair value on a recurring basis and other assets In determining and applying the Groups accounting policies, when impaired by reference to fair value less costs of disposal.
management are required to make judgements, estimates and Additionally, the fair value of other financial assets and liabilities assumptions.
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if require disclosure.
its selection or application could materially affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting market participants.
Fair value is measured by reference to the period.
Management consider accounting for the System Fund principal market for the asset or liability assuming that market to be a critical judgement and that critical estimates and participants act in their economic best interests.
assumptions are used in impairment testing and for measuring The fair value of a non-financial asset assumes the asset is used the loyalty programme liability, tax assets and liabilities, and in its highest and best use, either through continuing ownership litigation provisions, as discussed in further detail below.
Estimates and assumptions are evaluated by management using historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable The Group uses valuation techniques that maximise the use of based on current circumstances.
Actual results could differ under relevant observable inputs using the following valuation hierarchy: different policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions or Level 1: q uoted unadjusted prices in active markets for due to unforeseen circumstances.
System Fund in addition to management or franchise fees, Level 2: o ther techniques for which all inputs which have hotels within the IHG System pay cash assessments and a significant effect on the recorded fair value are contributions which are collected by IHG for specific use within observable, either directly or indirectly.
The Fund also receives proceeds Level 3: t echniques which use inputs which have a significant from the sale of IHG Rewards Club points.
IHG exerts significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based influence over the operation of the Fund, however the Fund is on observable market data.
managed for the benefit of hotels in the System with the objective of driving revenues for the hotels.
The Fund is used to pay for Further disclosures on the particular valuation techniques used marketing, the IHG Rewards Club loyalty programme and the by theGroup are provided in note 23. global reservation system.
The Fund is planned to operate at For impairment testing purposes and where significant assets breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried such as property are valued by reference to fair value less in the Group statement of financial position within working capital.
costs of disposal, an external valuation will normally be obtained As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does using professional valuers who have appropriate market not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition knowledge, reputation and independence.
criteria as outlined in the accounting policy above are not met and Exceptional items therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included The Group discloses certain financial information both including in the Group income statement.
The presentation of information The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of the appropriate headings in the Group statement of financial position underlying trading performance of the Group and provides as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
These assets and liabilities include the IHG Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or Rewards Club liability, short-term timing surpluses and deficits nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to and any receivables and payables related to the Fund.
assess underlying trends in financial performance.
Exceptional items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses The cash flows relating to the Fund are reported within cash flow on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
Treasury shares Own shares repurchased by the Company and not cancelled Further information on the Fund is included in note 32. treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from retained earnings.
If reissued, any excess of consideration over carrying amount is recognised in the share premium reserve.
112 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Loyalty programme the hotel loyalty programme, IHG Income taxes deferred tax assets are recognised to the Rewards Club, enables members to earn points, funded through extent that it is regarded as probable that deductible temporary hotel assessments, during each qualifying stay at an IHG branded differences can be realised.
The Group estimates deferred tax hotel and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation assets and liabilities based on current tax laws and rates, or other benefits.
The future redemption liability is calculated by and in certain cases, business plans, including managements multiplying the number of points expected to be redeemed by the expectations regarding the manner and timing of recovery of the redemption cost per point.
On an annual basis the Group engages related assets.
Changes in these estimates may affect the amount an external actuary who uses statistical formulas to assist in the of deferred tax liabilities or the valuation of deferred tax assets estimate of the number of points that will never be redeemed and therefore the tax charge in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses on the future redemption Provisions for tax liabilities require judgements on the liability are borne by the System Fund and any resulting changes interpretation of tax legislation, developments in case law and in the liability would correspondingly adjust the amount of the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals which may be short-term timing surpluses and deficits held in the Group subject to significant uncertainty.
Therefore the actual results statement of financial position.
The future redemption liability, may vary from expectations resulting in adjustments to provisions, which is included in trade and other payables, was $725m at the valuation of deferred tax assets, cash tax settlements, and 31 December 2014.
Based on the conditions existing at the therefore the tax charge in the income statement.
balance sheet date, a 1% decrease in the breakage estimate would increase this liability by approximately $7m.
Exceptional tax charges and credits arose in 2013 and 2012 as explained in note 7.
Impairment testing intangible assets, property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when events or Litigation from time to time, the Group is subject to legal circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be proceedings the ultimate outcome of each being always subject recoverable.
Goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an to many uncertainties inherent in litigation.
A provision for annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of litigation is made when it is considered probable that a payment impairment.
Assets that do not generate independent cash will be made and the amount of the loss can be reasonably flows are combined into cash-generating units.
Significant judgement is made when evaluating, amongst other factors, the probability of unfavourable outcome The impairment testing of individual assets or cash-generating and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount units requires an assessment of the recoverable amount of the of potential loss.
Litigation provisions are reviewed at each asset or cash-generating unit.
If the carrying value of the asset accounting period and revisions made for changes in facts or cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable and circumstances.
amount, the asset or cash-generating unit is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair New standards issued but not effective value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Value in use is The new and amended accounting standards discussed below are assessed based on estimated future cash flows discounted to their those which are expected to be relevant to the Groups financial present value using a pre-tax discount rate that is based on the statements.
Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted to reflect the From 1 January 2015, the Group will apply the amendments risks specific to the business model and territory of the cashto existing standards arising from the 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 generating unit or asset being tested.
The outcome of such an annual improvements cycles.
assessment is subjective, and the result sensitive to the assumed future cash flows to be generated by the cash-generating units or From 1 January 2016, the Group will apply Amendments to assets and discount rates applied in calculating the value in use.
IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation and Amendments to IFRS 11 At 31 December 2014, the Group had intangible assets of $569m Accounting for Acquisition of Interests in Joint Operations.
and property, plant and equipment of $741m, none of which were subject to an impairment charge during the year.
In respect of The above amendments are not expected to have a material those assets requiring an impairment test and depending on how impact on the Groups reported performance or financial position.
recoverable amount was assessed, a 10% reduction in fair value or IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers introduces estimated future cash flows would have resulted in an impairment a new five-step approach to measuring and recognising revenue loss of $7m.
and is effective from 1 January 2017.
Information on impairment testing of goodwill, which had a net IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued as a final standard book value of $74m at 31 December 2014, is included in note 12. in July 2014 and is effective from 1 January 2018.
The standard introduces new requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, impairment and hedge accounting.
The Group is currently assessing the impacts of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 and plans to adopt both standards on the required effective dates.
