OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 35 We signed up to BITCs Ban the Box campaign to give CASE STUDY people with criminal convictions a second chance at fulfilling their potential by giving them fair access to employment opportunities.
Landmarc, our partnership with American training firm BUILDING FOR PAE, launched a venture with X Forces to help hundreds of ex-service personnel into the world of business.
As well as THE FUTURE providing mentors to work with X Forces entrepreneurs, Landmarc also gives access to office and meeting space, to help get new businesses on their feet.
Community engagement Social capital is inherently linked to local circumstances, issues and communities.
Our community engagement is structured to help local groups and communities tackle local issues by providing support for our people to make a difference in their community through the Interserve Employee Foundation IEF.
The IEF was established with the aim of improving the quality of life for people in the communities where we operate through enlisting their skills, capabilities, resources and enthusiasm and encouraging our people all over the world to engage in community and charitable activities.
Employees receive two days of time per year to participate in a community volunteering project charitable activity.
In 2014 3.1 per cent of employees supported projects through volunteering during company time, a total of THIS INITIATIVE WAS FOUNDED IN 2007 BY PARENTS OF 1,912 volunteering days.
DISABLED CHILDREN, WHO DISCOVERED THERE WAS NO The charities and good causes supported by IEF reflect the SUITABLE PLAY AREA FOR CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES wide scope of our operations and of the interests and concerns ANYWHERE IN THE WOKINGHAM BOROUGH.
Examples of support in 2014 include: A team of cyclists from our Construction division raised Once the charity secured a building, Interserve staff over 160,000 for charities following the London to Paris applied to the Interserve Employee Foundation for a bike ride in May 2014.
Some 65 employees took part in grant which would be used to carry out necessary work.
the challenge which saw the team cycle 275 miles over The building needed to be made safe and wheelchair three days.
Work was also needed to transform it into a Colleagues in Birmingham collected nearly 3,500 items bright, engaging environment where the children could of food 1.6 tonnes for the Birmingham Central Foodbank, play.
The charity directors awarded 7,500 towards the enough to provide over 750 meals for families in need costs.
Staff from our Developments division, along with over the Christmas period.
The donation is the largest Facilities Management employees at Slough Borough ever provided to the Foodbank from a single company.
Council, gave a total of 75 days of their time to undertake 55 employees gave their time to support Just Around the the majority of work.
They also used supplier and local Corner JAC, a Berkshire charity that uses the restorative effects of horse riding as a therapy to support children and trades and business contacts to secure materials at cost families affected by mental health problems by building value as well as getting some of the materials donated.
paths, fencing paddocks, digging vegetable allotments and The facility was opened by Their Royal Highnesses The weather-proofing buildings.
Earl and Countess of Wessex in May 2014.
2014 Social Capital Target Performance Employee volunteering UK 3.6% 15% by 2016 ROW 2.4% Sustainable procurement strategy By 2014 Health & Wellbeing programme By 2014 36 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Under our group-wide Innovation Programme this year we KNOWLEDGE CAPITAL launched a Big Ideas Hunt to encourage employees to We are now one of the largest private employers in the UK, with bring our strapline ingenuity at work to life, and contribute a worldwide workforce of over 80,000 throughout 40 countries.
innovative ideas to improve our business.
Over 400 ideas were In turn we support thousands of SMEs through our supply chain, submitted, largely captured through our new employee portal, supporting hundreds of thousands more.
Our areas of specialism, MyInterserve.
These were shortlisted by the Innovation Steering particularly within construction and engineering, demand a Board, with employees then voting for their top 10 ideas.
Our long-term sustainability depends on a pool of educated, work-ready labour which can meet the We also expanded the level of support for Early Career entrants growing needs of our business.
We are therefore committed to into our business.
This Group-wide programme focusing on the sharing know-how, increasing levels of skills and training and next generation of Interserve professionals has seen a significant providing opportunities for self-improvement to add to societys increase in opportunities for graduates, apprentices and work collective pool of knowledge.
In 2014 we had 320 apprentices, trainees and graduates on the programme across the Group.
As part of our Knowledge Capital Target 2014 Performance drive to increase both awareness and work-readiness of future school leavers, we delivered work experience events to a total Apprenticeships, 500 of 1,076 participants.
This was split between 422 students on traineeships, graduates 320 by 2018 number on programme formal work placements and 654 students who attended work experience workshops to help define and develop essential Number of training days UK n a 12,159 employability skills.
ROW n a 39,950 A further element in our mission to bring closer together the Work placements Placements 1,000 yr 422 worlds of education and business was the establishment of the Experience n a 654 Interserve Academies Trust IAT a not-for-profit charitable organisation, with the aim of becoming a multi-academy Total 1,000 yr 1,076 sponsor.
In July, the Department for Education approved the Sustainability targets 100 762 IAT as the sponsor of Crawshaw Academy in Leeds, a mixed in managers appraisals CASE STUDY MORE SKILLS, MORE OPPORTUNITIES AT KHANSAHEB TRAINING SCHOOL, DUBAI PROVIDING CONSTRUCTION WORKERS WITH GREATER EXPERTISE AND WIDER CAREER OPPORTUNITIES, INTERSERVES ASSOCIATE CIVIL ENGINEERING BUSINESS IN DUBAI IS PAVING THE WAY WITH THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ITS OWN IN-HOUSE TRADES TRAINING SCHOOL.
Opened in March 2014, the Khansaheb Training Centre runs a full trades training curriculum taught by CITB qualified tutors.
The centre trains 160 employees per month, on a 12-day structured curriculum for each trade.
Over 1,700 of our people have already benefitted.
The curriculum covers key site skills, such as masonry, block-laying, plastering, tiling and paving, steel fixing, carpentry and supervisory skills.
Health and safety is also a critical component of the training, which includes demonstrated, practical tutorials with mentorship and ongoing peer review on how to get the job done, the safe way.
As well as noticing a steady increase in quality, and health and safety performance, managers have seen a dramatic increase in employee engagement.
Site supervisors reported a jump in the pride in workmanship, motivation and team work of those who had been through the training.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 37 school for 1218 year olds.
The Trust assumed management of CASE STUDY the Academy in September and is delivering a curriculum that seeks to equip school leavers with the necessary skills to thrive in the workplace.
LIGHT GAUGE STEEL Our people strategy is based around capability, leadership and people experience.
Leadership development is an ROLLED OUT IN OMAN important part of our commitment to developing our people and maintaining our ability to sustain and grow our business.
This year, we have launched new waves of our Trusted Partner Programme, now in its fourth year and aimed at our leadership population one and two tiers beneath our Executive Board: and our Ingenuity at Work Programme, in its second year and aimed at our leadership population three and four tiers beneath our Executive Board.
These programmes focus on business projects that support near-term business performance and effectiveness as well as progress us towards our longer term business goals.
Career development and access to opportunities for training and skills development is an important focus for the Group.
Over the past year weve provided 52,109 training days for our people.
Weve also invested resources in defining development pathways across our business from operational into management and strategic roles to clearly illustrate the potential development opportunities available to our people, whatever their level within the organisation.
In addition to the activity weve undertaken this year internally, we were keen to contribute to the wider debate INTERSERVES OMAN-BASED CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS, about skills, productivity and pay.
We wanted to investigate DOUGLAS OHI, PARTNERED WITH LEADING STEEL ways to unlock untapped potential in the workforce by giving PROVIDER, THE HADLEY GROUP, TO OFFER CLIENTS the right support and opportunities to progress.
We recognised LIGHT GAUGE STEEL LGS GALVANISED STEEL this was a challenge that was bigger than any single company SHEETS ROLLED INTO DIFFERENT SECTIONS TO FORM or sector and joined forces with the Social Market Foundation A BUILDINGS STRUCTURAL FRAMEWORK.
SMF to examine how skills could be put at the heart of tackling the low wage limited opportunities cycle.
As a The majority of the light-weight framing solution is result a report was launched in April calling for a radical new government-backed Skills for Progress scheme to manufactured from recycled steel with cold rolled boost the skills and wages of those trapped in low pay.
sections of steel supplied in pre-cut bespoke lengths, reducing material wastage.
LGS takes less time to We co-founded the FM Supply Chain Sustainability School, construct and uses fewer natural resources than the which was set up last year.
This has enabled us to work in traditional steel alternative.
On-site noise pollution collaboration with our supply chain and help it to help is also vastly reduced because cutting is virtually us achieve our targets.
The use of LSG also 2 In December, we acquired The Employment and Skills Group reduces construction time by around 30 per cent and has esg, further strengthening our focus on education and long-term environmental benefits, with better thermal skills.
esg is one of the UKs largest private-sector providers insulation compared to a traditional build.
Steel is of training and employment services and also provides 100 per cent recyclable and uses 60 per cent less energy vocational training in three new further education colleges to convert from scrap than iron ore. Douglas OHI and the in Saudi Arabia under the Kingdoms Colleges of Excellence Hadley Group recycle all galvanised steel removed in the programme.
With approximately 700 employees, esg supports production process and only source from suppliers who over 65,000 people a year into work or training.
can prove the use of old steel to make new.
38 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED NATURAL CAPITAL Working with clients in the built environment, we take our social and environmental responsibilities very seriously and through our SustainAbilities Plan have made a commitment to go beyond compliance and aim to make a positive difference both through our own operations and the work we undertake for clients.
We have identified the following key environmental risks opportunities for our SustainAbilities programme to address: CO e emissions from our use of energy including electricity, gas, fuel and travel 2 Waste management generation, treatment and disposal Water use and scarcity D amage to natural ecosystems biodiversity, air, land and water Absolute 2014 Performance vs. 2013 Natural Capital Target 2014 2013 Absolute Relative Total carbon emissions UK 65.2 61.3 6.3% -0.1% 50% reduction by 2020 Metric: tonnes CO e 000s ROW 224.1 223.6 0.2% -7.1% 2 Emissions from energy use on permanent sites UK 8.7 8.5 2.6% -3.5% 50% reduction by 2020 Metric: tonnes CO e 000s ROW 54.9 50.7 8.3% 0.4% 2 Emissions from business travel UK 49.7 46.1 7.9% 1.5% 30% reduction by 2016 Metric: tonnes CO e 000s ROW 89.0 70.8 25.8% 16.5% 2 Emissions from construction site-based UK 1.5 2.0 -25.8% -30.2% electricity generation 30% reduction by 2016 Metric: tonnes CO e 000s ROW not currently available 2 we are developing processes to report this Total water consumption UK 20% reduction by 2016 50.3 52.5 -4.3% -10.0% 3 Metric: m 000s ROW 1,741.6 1,542.9 12.9% 4.6% Construction waste UK 40.1 38.8 4.7% -1.6% 25% reduction by 2016 Metric: tonnes 000s ROW 165.2 183.5 -10.0% -16.6% Office waste UK 1.2 1.3 -5.7% -11.3% 50% reduction by 2016 Metric: tonnes 000s ROW 3.9 3.6 8.5% 0.5% Previously quoted 2013 figures have been restated to take into account significant acquisitions and include our international operations.
These figures form our 2013 baseline for measuring performance against SustainAbilities targets.
Our overall environmental performance has shown some positive outcomes during 2014.
Total carbon emissions including emissions from our international subsidiaries and associates increased 1.5 per cent to 289,251 tonnes CO e in 2014 2013: 284,883, this equates 2 to a 4.8 per cent relative reduction.
This figure can be broken down as 53 per cent Scope 1 152,559 tonnes, 19 per cent Scope 2 54,505 tonnes and 28 per cent Scope 3 82,184.
Scope 1 emissions are the direct emissions associated with fuel that we use and fugitive emissions.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions associated with the energy we use, predominantly emissions from the generation of the electricity we use.
Scope 3 emissions are indirect supply chain emissions from goods and services we use, including flights, rail and grey fleet mileage.
In the UK we have achieved absolute reductions in our water consumption down 4.3 per cent and carbon emissions from construction site-based electricity down 25.8 per cent.
Emissions from business travel and fixed locations have remained broadly consistent despite organic growth.
Our international operations, where we include natural capital impacts of accommodation for our c30,000 staff, account for the majority of our environmental impact.
However, this has been the first year we have had detailed data from this region and we consider this to be an area of considerable opportunity for future reductions.
We also recognise achieving the behavioural and operational changes required to meet our targets will take time.
From an international perspective, there was significant progress made during 2014 in terms of employee engagement and understanding of our sustainability strategy.
Every business has processes in place to report on its performance and a more comprehensive set of data to use to take decisions on during 2015.
Our Khansaheb business in the UAE has reduced construction waste produced by over 20,000 tonnes compared to its 2013 baseline.
This has been achieved in part through better planning for materials and site logistics due to the implementation of the K standard and improved working practices through the introduction of the trade training school.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 39 The achievements in the UK Construction site-based electricity OUR PEOPLE emissions reductions are as a result of innovation and adopting Health and safety new working practices and technologies.
Our construction Interserve adopts a formal and proactive approach to the business developed and implemented a hybrid power system management of health and safety throughout our operations.
that enables us to reduce generator capacity on site and Senior directors have responsibility for health and safety in to further supplement it with photovoltaic, wind and other each division and together with divisional Heads of Safety renewable sources.
meet quarterly to review performance and the various health We have developed a travel plan framework that can be used and safety initiatives being undertaken.
During the year we across the Group and provides a hierarchy for travel choices.
established a Board-level Serious Health and Safety Incident We are also targeting local emission vehicles within our fleet Committee to review our incident investigations and oversee and improving our IT infrastructure to support the use of the implementation of any improvement recommendations.
alternatives to travel including desktop and video conferencing where practicable.
Our standard is for all operating businesses to implement safety management systems that meet the OHSAS 18001 standard.
Working with Smiths Gore, Jacobs SKM and the University Across the world 93 per cent of our employees work under safety of Exeter, Landmarc has developed a pilot natural capital management systems certified to this standard.
To support our decision support tool that enables more intelligent land-use and management systems, in the Middle East we have launched our environmental resource planning for our work on the Ministry Brownfield Hotwork Gold Standard and our Life Saving Rules to of Defence's MoD 220,000 hectare training estate.
The first provide clear guidance on standards to operating staff.
operational tool of its kind, it contains a mixture of natural capital, ecosystem services and constraint datasets covering Safety performance is clearly defined as a line-management two pilot training areas, Barry Budden in Scotland and Dartmoor responsibility and, together with formal management systems, in the South West.
we provide appropriate training and professional support to ensure managers are able to effectively discharge their duties.
We are committed to helping our clients by delivering our Proactive site visits and safety inspections are carried out by services in a way that minimises energy use and offers them directors, management teams and safety advisers.
Members ideas, expertise and solutions to build their resilience to energy of the Executive Board carried out a total of 126 site safety outages, price spikes and scarcity.
visits during the year and across the Group a total over 1,300 FINANCIAL CAPITAL management safety tours were recorded.
As a result of these and other inspections over 126,000 unsafe conditions were identified Alongside financial performance, our commercial and and corrected, preventing potential incidents.
procurement decisions have a significant influence over our achievement of the goals and targets within the SustainAbilities We are regularly recognised for our contributions to delivering Plan.
Over the past year we have focused on strengthening high standards of health and safety and in 2014 this included: sustainable procurement policies and procedures.
All UK operating divisions have incorporated sustainable procurement I ndustrial Services achieved the British Safety Council requirements into their supplier codes of conduct and have Sword of Honour reviewed or adopted sustainable, ethical and responsible Madina received RasGas certificate of appreciation for procurement policies.
commitment to achieving 25 million man hours without During 2014 sustainability was further embedded into our a lost-time incident tendering processes, which now includes more rigorous supplier G ulf Contracting received recognition from JGC Barzan selection criteria and relationship management, audits and Onshore Project for contribution to 250,000 observations risk management.
Sustainability targets have also been 31 RoSPA awards: three Presidents Award for between integrated into the annual performance appraisals of 10 and 14 Gold Awards, 10 Gold Medals for between central procurement staff.
Our Al Manjara joinery business in five and nine Gold Awards, and 12 Gold Awards Gulf Contracting achieved Forest Stewardship Council FSC certification during 2014 for supply of timber products.
Carys Marwood received a RoSPA Guardian Angel Award.
The result of this proactive approach is that over the year our Ultimately, sustainable growth recognises that value represents overall accident rates have reduced by eight per cent for lost-time more than money that a profitable business is one that takes injuries and 18 per cent for fatal and major injuries.
However, our into account the true cost and wider considerations of business reportable injury incidence rate increased by five per cent and to deliver sustained value for all.
It is an aspiration increasingly during the year we suffered one incident in the Middle East in shared by our customers and our stakeholders, and one which which an individual suffered fatal injuries.
A full investigation was we have proven, through successive periods of improving carried out into the circumstances of the incident to ensure that financial results.
lessons could be learned to prevent recurrence.
40 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Equal opportunities Interserve is committed to eliminating discrimination among our All labour AIR 255 242 298 310 377 workforce in order that we may offer employees an environment UK and RMDK globally where there is no unlawful discrimination and all decisions are AIR including associates 209 201 239 260 326 based on merit.
Target 195 224 240 302 310 Our policy is to promote equality and fairness for all in our Lost Time Accident LTA 426 474 524 n a n a employment.
The Group aims to ensure that no job applicant or Incident Rate employee receives less favourable treatment or is disadvantaged by imposed conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to The Accident Incident Rate AIR is based on the number be justifiable, on the grounds of gender including sex, marital or of injuries meeting the RIDDOR reporting requirements per civil partner status, gender re-assignment, race including ethnic 100,000 workforce.
origin, colour, nationality and national origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief, age, and pregnancy or maternity.
Employee consultation and participation We believe in involving our people in matters affecting them as We take every step to ensure working environments are free employees and keeping them informed of all relevant factors from harassment and bullying, where all individuals are treated concerning the Groups performance, strategy, financial status, equally and fairly and that selection for employment, promotion, charitable activities and other issues.
We achieve this through training or any other benefit will be taken solely on merit and formal and informal briefings, our Group newspaper Focus and ability against job-based criteria.
We avoid discrimination in our intranet.
working conditions and terms of employment and are committed to making reasonable adjustments for disabled employees.
We During the reporting period we launched a new web-based oppose all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination.
com, specifically aimed at reaching our thousands of front-line employees.
The portal has Employee diversity been designed to be accessible on mobile devices, giving staff In 2014 we signed up to the National Equality Standard fines access to company news, the ability to participate in discussion further strengthening our commitment to achieving our equality forums, and to give days of their time in support of good causes, and diversity goals.
The fines is a cross-industry recognised standard as well as access to staff discounts at a range of retailers and covering all areas of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion EDI in leisure outlets.
Interserve already works with a variety of different organisations who are helping us put in place programmes and We operate two all-employee HMRC-approved share schemes in practices that build our diversity culture by providing access to order to support our Employer of Choice goal and to encourage opportunities.
These include BITC Business in the Community, our employees to share in the future of the Group.
In our Investors in Diversity IiD, Leonard Cheshire and Two Ticks for Sharesave Scheme, employees save small amounts each month disability.
The fines will be the consolidating standard that binds which can be then used to purchase Company shares at a discount all our activities together and through their process will help our to the market price.
In our Share Incentive Plan, employees can selection of partner organisations moving forward.
purchase Company shares through lump-sum or monthly payments which are deducted from their salaries before income tax and As at 31 December 2014, 32,830 of our global workforce of national insurance liabilities are assessed.
59,829 were male and 26,999 were female.
Further information is provided in the table below.
2 Subsidiary directors and Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibility at year end.
3 Employees of wholly-owned subsidiaries included within Group consolidation at year end.
Throughout our worldwide operations we strive to operate to high standards of human rights in accordance with our values and all appropriate legislation.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW 41 CASE STUDY 3D MODELLING KEY TO NEW ABU DHABI AIRPORT TERMINAL CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION, THE NEW MIDFIELD TERMINAL COMPLEX MTC AT ABU DHABI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT WILL HAVE THE CAPACITY TO HANDLE MORE THAN 20 MILLION PASSENGERS A YEAR WHEN IT OPENS IN JULY 2017.
Our Equipment Services business, RMD Kwikform, has This process included the design of a heavy-duty support provided a range of shoring, propping and formwork system for the erection of the steel arches and a jacking solutions for the complex design and geometry of the frame.
To ensure the frame was able to cope with the large 630,000 square metre main terminal building, which loading forces and high winds and heat, the engineering features a huge curved roof.
teams used the latest modelling technology before components were then fabricated and tested.
Curving horizontally and vertically, construction of the terminal building relies on achieving millimetre accuracy RMD Kwikform also designed and supplied the support for the installation of specially fabricated segments to form towers, which varied in height from 15 to 45 metres.
steel arches and a central girder.
As part of the construction planning process, RMD Kwikform engineers - working with the steel roof sub-contractor - used 3D modelling to design bespoke components for the phased erection of the arches.
