History and development X Details of incorporation In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp. Amec Foster Wheeler plc formerly AMEC plc is a public limited a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides company that is incorporated in England and Wales with the support to existing nuclear utilities.
Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in SPIE, AMEC plc changed its name to Amec Foster Wheeler plc on which provided electrical engineering, communications services 13 November 2014 when it took control of Foster Wheeler AG.
and specialist activities in the energy and rail industries, predominantly in France.
The Companys registered office is situated at Booths Park, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
Developments during 2014 Acquisition of Foster Wheeler The Company operates under English law.
In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster The Companys agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, US.
and project management contractor and power equipment supplier, by way of a public tender offer.
Origins AMEC plc was formed in 1982, when Fairclough Construction Foster Wheeler AG was a Swiss-registered company that merged with William Press Group.
The Matthew Hall Group was listed on NASDAQ in the US.
At 31 December 2014, the of Companies was acquired in 1988.
As a business, we can Company owned, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, 95.3% trace our history back over 150 years to the origins of these of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
the acquisition are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subsequent transformation In recent years, the Groups activities have been transformed During January 2015, the Company acquired the remaining shares in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a so-called squeezeby exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, engineering and project management business.
We have out merger conducted under Swiss law and Foster Wheeler AG merged with and into one of the Companys wholly-owned achieved this transformation through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities.
X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc. a North American At the time of the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had around environmental, engineering and construction services 12,000 employees and operated in over 30 countries.
Foster company, and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services Wheeler operates through two business groups: Co. Inc. a US environmental consulting company.
X E&C Services, which designs, engineers and constructs X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc. onshore and offshore upstream oil and gas processing a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company, facilities, natural gas liquefaction facilities and receiving and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and terminals, gas-to-liquids facilities, oil refining, chemical and engineering business.
petrochemical, pharmaceutical and biotechnology facilities and related infrastructure, including power generation X In 2007, we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
facilities, distribution facilities, gasification facilities and X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc. a Californiaprocessing facilities associated with the minerals and based technical consulting and engineering firm: Rider Hunt metals sector, and is also involved in the design of facilities International Limited, a project services company to the oil, in developing market sectors, including carbon capture and gas, chemical, energy and process industries: and Bower storage, solid fuel-fired integrated gasification combined-cycle Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
power plants, coal-to-liquids, coal-to-chemicals and biofuels: and X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
X Global Power Group, which designs, manufactures and installs X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project steam generators and auxiliary equipment for electric power delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the generating stations, district heating and power plants and design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
industrial facilities worldwide and also provides a wide range X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based of aftermarket services.
environmental and engineering consultancy company.
Acquisition of Scopus X In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc. a US engineering and In December 2014, the Company acquired Scopus Group environmental services company: and QED International Holdings Limited Scopus.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has commissioning services company.
around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear X In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants industries.
Details of the acquisition are set out in note 24 UK Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services to the consolidated financial statements.
business, Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, engineering and technical services company serving Australias energy, resources and infrastructure sectors, and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 163 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
