Other information Holders of ADSs Dividends ADSs and ADRs The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other The Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of ADSs distributions it or the custodian receives on the Companys on the NYSE.
Each ADS represents one ordinary share.
shares after deducting its fees and expenses.
ADS holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by Deutsche Bank the Companys shares the ADSs represent at the record date Trust Company Americas as Depositary under a deposit which will be as close as practicable to the record date for the agreement dated 2 October 2014.
The ADRs are issued in Companys ordinary shares set by the Depositary with respect respect of ordinary shares deposited with State Street Bank to the ADSs.
& Trust Company, as custodian for the Depositary.
The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR a certificate cash distribution on the Companys shares or any net proceeds evidencing a specific number of ADSs registered in your from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, entitlements into US dollars.
Before making a distribution to or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution.
If you ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder.
The Companys ADSs must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the are issued through the Direct Registration System unless the Depositary, will be deducted.
investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
ADS enquiries A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment the Depositary.
The registered holder is considered the owner of of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary: record.
A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, Deutsche Bank Shareholder Service bank or nominee.
American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Peck Slip Station ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct P. O.
Box 2050 the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the New York, NY 10272-2050 number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
US Role of the Depositary Telephone toll free : 1 866 706 0509 The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders: Telephone international : 1 718 921 8137 X distributes company circulars and documents in relation Email: db@amstock.
com to general meetings of the Company including the AGM : DB Global Direct X distributes dividends in US dollars: US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to invest directly in the Companys ADSs with reduced brokerage X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights commissions and service costs.
Registered ADS holders may of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company: reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Companys X issues and cancels the Companys ADSs: ADSs through DB Global Direct.
X acts as the stock transfer agent: and For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact Deutsche Bank as above or visit www.
X records and maintains the register of ADS holders.
ADS price The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of The latest price of the Companys ADSs can be found on meetings of the Companys shareholders and other reports our website and may also be obtained from the NYSEs website, and communications that are made available to the Companys www.
com in both cases the live ADS price is updated shareholders.
The Depositary makes such notices, reports and with a 15-minute delay.
communications available for inspection by recorded holders of ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded Fees payable by ADS holders ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries the Depositary at general meetings of the Company.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors, including payment of dividends ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Companys by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts latest annual report on request by writing to our registered distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property office or by filling in the form on our website.
The Depositary may collect its annual fee for depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting from them.
The Depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services are paid.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 177 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Share capital Service Fees As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised To any person to whom ADSs are issued Up to US$0.05 share capital.
The Companys share capital may be increased, per ADS issued or to any person to whom a distribution consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to meeting of the Company.
share dividends or other free distributions As at 25 March 2015, the Companys issued share capital of shares, bonus distributions, stock was 196,565,907 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares splits or other distributions except where of 50 pence each.
Of this number, 4,291,115 ordinary shares converted to cash were registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of Cancellation of ADSs including in the case Up to US$0.05 388,840,698 ordinary shares with voting rights.
of termination of the deposit agreement per ADS cancelled All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid or were Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 issued as fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of per ADS held capital may be required by the Company from the holders of those shares.
Distribution of cash entitlements Up to US$0.05 other than cash dividends and or cash per ADS held The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional proceeds, including proceeds from the sale share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable of rights, securities and other entitlements bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise Up to US$0.05 Companys shares, other than securities granted to directors, of rights per ADS held senior management and employees under the Companys share-based compensation plans.
Information on these plans Depositary services Up to US$0.05 is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
per ADS held on the applicable As at 25 March 2015, there were 5,976,299 share options record date s outstanding under the Companys UK and International SAYE established by schemes and 5,783,597 shares reserved for share awards under the Depositary the Companys share-based compensation plans in relation to which 2,015,070 shares were held in the Companys Employee ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and Share Trust.
expenses incurred by the Depositary such as: The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own X fees for the transfer and registration of the Companys shares shares.
A resolution passed at the Companys General Meeting charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in on 23 October 2014 provides the directors with the authority the UK: to purchase up 35,896,172 of the Companys ordinary shares in the market, such authority to expire at the end of the X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into US Companys next AGM or 1 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
dollars: and A resolution will be proposed at the Companys AGM in May X expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission and 2015 to extend the authority of the directors to make market for delivery of securities.
purchases of up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares within prescribed limits.
The Company may repurchase shares Since the Companys ADSs were first issued in November only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits 2014, a fee of US$0.01 per ADS was levied on the 2014 interim or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose dividend that was paid in January 2015. of the repurchase.
The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% or Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company more of any class of the Companys share capital must be by The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related The Company may reduce its share capital, share to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its expenses associated with being a company listed in the US.
shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the Court of Justice in England and Wales.
Depositary will reimburse the Company.
Further, the Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable Markets to the Depositary by ADS holders.
The primary trading market for the Companys ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed In the period from 2 October 2014 the date of the deposit since the Companys formation in 1982.
The Company has a agreement with the Depositary to 25 March 2015, the premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary Company did not receive any amounts from the Depository but shares are admitted to the main market.
The Companys SEDOL it expects to receive reimbursement of certain costs incurred in number is 0028262 ISIS Code GB0000282623 and its that period during the fourth quarter of 2015. trading symbol is AMFW.
Amec Foster Wheeler 178 Annual report and accounts 2014 As at 25 March 2015, the Companys total market capitalisation Shareholdings was approximately 3.8bn and it was a constituent of The As at 25 March 2015, 17,130,827 ADSs equivalent to 4.4% of Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index FTSE 250. the number of the Companys ordinary shares in issue were outstanding and were held by 1,321 registered holders.
Since November 2014, the Companys ordinary shares have been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Companys As at 25 March 2015, 154,517 ordinary shares were held CUSIP code is 00167X205 ISIN Code US00167X2053 and its by 386 registered holders with a registered address in the ticker symbol is AMFW.
Since certain of the ordinary shares were registered in the names of nominees, the number of shareholders with Share price history a registered address in the US may not be representative For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and of the number of beneficial owners of ordinary shares who lowest middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary are resident in the US.
shares on the London Stock Exchange as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the highest In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders and lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE as reported are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in on the NYSE composite tape were as follows: 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
On the basis of notifications received under the DTRs DTR 5 1 per ordinary share US$ per ADS and other notifications received by the Company from Year ended 31 December High Low High Low shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more of the voting 2010 11.68 7.34 n a n a rights in the Company were as follows: 2011 12.51 7.41 n a n a 2012 11.72 9.23 n a n a Percentage of voting rights held 2013 12.07 9.66 n a n a As at 31 December 2014 2013 2012 2011 2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership n a 5.20% n a n a Mondrian Investment 1 per ordinary share US$ per ADS Partners Limited 5.28% 5.15% n a n a Quarter High Low High Low 1 BlackRock, Inc. 5.01% n a 9.97% 9.94% 2013 First quarter 11.24 10.10 n a n a Legal & General Second quarter 10.98 9.66 n a n a Assurance n a n a 3.98% 3.96% Third quarter 11.10 10.02 n a n a Fourth quarter 12.07 10.40 n a n a 1 In r esponse to a disclosure request under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Blackrock, Inc. advised the Company on 19 December 2012 that 2014 their holding had reduced to 5.52%.
First quarter 11.24 10.20 n a n a On 23 March 2015, pursuant to DTR 5, BlackRock, Inc. notified Second quarter 12.62 11.65 n a n a the Company of their interest in 5.63% of the voting rights in Third quarter 12.45 10.59 n a n a the Company.
Otherwise, there were no notifications received Fourth quarter 11.05 7.89 16.97 12.25 under DTR 5 between 31 December 2014 and 25 March 2015.
2015 2 Each of the Companys ordinary shares, including those held First quarter 9.95 7.77 14.83 12.75 by major shareholders, carries equal voting rights.
Purchase of ordinary shares 1 per ordinary share US$ per ADS In February 2013, the Company completed a 400m share buyMonth High Low High Low back programme.
During 2014, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares in the market and no purchases of the September 2014 11.20 10.59 n a n a Companys shares were made by trustees of the Companys October 2014 10.92 9.90 n a n a employee share schemes.
November 2014 11.05 9.35 16.97 14.47 December 2014 9.36 7.90 14.47 12.25 Options and awards made under the Companys employee January 2015 8.62 7.77 13.11 11.89 share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2014 were February 2015 9.03 8.31 13.83 12.39 satisfied by the transfer to the participants of the shares held 2 March 2015 9.95 8.73 14.79 13.00 by the Company in treasury or by the trustee of the relevant scheme.
Details of the Companys employee share schemes 1 From 13 November 2014. are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
2 Up to and including 25 March 2015.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 179 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Restrictions on voting Articles of Association We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or and applicable English law.
The summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material interest other than by virtue of that persons interests in the Articles.
Please refer to Documents on display on page 187 for information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
Companys ordinary shares or other securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to proposals: In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of members as the holder X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security of a share or shares.
or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company: Principal objects The Articles of Association do not restrict the Companys X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or objects or purposes.
a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity Directors or guarantee: The board Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities: law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders.
X concerning any other company in which the director together Appointment, retirement and re-election with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or Directors may be appointed by the board at any time.
Any is otherwise interested, provided that the director together director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until with any connected person is not interested in 1% or more of the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for any class of such other companys equity share capital or the election by shareholders.
voting rights available to its shareholders: Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which eligible for re-election every three years.
However, in line with the director will share equally with other employees: and the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, X relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and is renews for its directors or any group of people including considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself or directors.
herself for re-election at every AGM.
Compensation awarded to the executive directors is Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a persons determined by the remuneration committee.
qualification to hold office as a director.
A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present at a general meeting of the Companys shareholders in relation to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries may not exceed two times the adjusted capital and reserves as defined in the Articles.
Shareholding requirements Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any shares of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the shareholders.
Amec Foster Wheeler 180 Annual report and accounts 2014 On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or Rights attaching to ordinary shares In accordance with English law, the Companys ordinary shares by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.
A poll may be demanded by the following: rank equally in all respects.
Dividends X the chairman of the meeting: or The Companys ordinary shares carry the right to receive X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled dividends and distributions that have been declared by the to vote: or Company.
Except in relation to dividends that have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, ordinary X a member or members present in person or by proxy and shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights Company.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits X a member or members present in person or by proxy and available for distribution, as determined in accordance with holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been restricts a public company from making a distribution if paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid that would reduce the net assets of the company below the up on all the shares conferring that right.
aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains undistributable reserves.
unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member Dividends are proposed by the directors.
Dividends are is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the Rights in a winding up Companys shareholders at a general meeting of the Company.
If the Company is liquidated whether the liquidation is Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the voluntary or court-supervised, the liquidator is obliged to amount proposed by the directors.
The directors may declare realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Companys to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that financial position justifies such payments.
may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed to Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid-up for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
on the shares held by them.
Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date Pre-emption rights on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
apply on an allotment of equity securities which include the If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive Companys ordinary shares.
a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
Such a Voting rights resolution was passed at the Companys General Meeting on Holders of the Companys ordinary shares have the right to 23 October 2014 and provides the directors with the authority receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or of the Company.
to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount of 59,228,684.5, of which up to 8,974,043 could be allotted for Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, such meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any authority to expire at the end of the Companys next AGM or of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a Variation of rights poll is duly demanded and held.
Under English law, shareholders Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class written consent.
can only be changed either: On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters in person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding of shares held.
shares held as treasury shares : or X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equally with them.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 181 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a General meetings An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested in the Companys shares requiring such person to confirm and within a period of six months of the day following the Companys accounting reference date which is 31 December.
whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the interest and any other interest in the Companys shares of Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever which he is aware.
they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the Under the DTRs, persons discharging managerial Company carrying voting rights excluding shares held as responsibilities primarily directors and some senior treasury shares.
executives and their connected persons are required to notify the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions General meetings may be held at such place, date and time conducted on their own account in the Companys shares, as may be decided by the directors.
or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days those shares within four business days of the day on which the notice.
Other general meetings must also be convened by giving transaction occurred.
not less than 21 days notice unless shareholder approval has Mandatory bids been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect 14 days notice such approval has been given by the Companys of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is Company.
proposed that it should be renewed.
However, under the UK City Code on Takeovers & Mergers, if an General meetings may be called on shorter notice if, in the acquisition of the Companys shares increases the aggregate case of an AGM, all of the members entitled to attend and vote holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying at that meeting so agree, or if, in the case of other general 30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer meetings, 95% of the members entitled to attend and vote and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, at that meeting so agree.
would be required except with the consent of the Panel on For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to Takeovers & Mergers to make a cash offer for the remainder of attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such persons the Companys shares at a price not less than the highest price may cast, the Company must specify in the notice of the paid for the Companys shares by the acquirer or its concert meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for parties during the previous 12 months.
Such an offer would also the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
together with its concert parties shares carrying between 30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless of such acquisition were to increase that persons percentage a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to of the voting rights.
Two shareholders present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
Amendments Under English law, the Companys shareholders may, by special The directors may require attendees to submit to searches resolution, alter, delete, substitute amend or add to the Articles.
or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
Any member, proxy or other person who fails to Material contracts comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused During the last two years, the Group entered into the following entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
material contracts other than contracts entered into in the Limitations on voting and shareholding ordinary course of business : Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on the Acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own the Pursuant to an implementation agreement between AMEC Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights to hold and Foster Wheeler entered into on 13 February 2014 as or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
amended by the letter agreement dated 28 March 2014, Disclosure of interests in the Companys ordinary shares the deed of amendment dated 28 May 2014 and the Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in deed of amendment dated 2 October 2014, together, the writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights Implementation Agreement, AMEC commenced an offer to which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect acquire all outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares on 6 October holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the 2014 the Offer.
The Offer closed on 13 November 2014 and, voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls upon completion of the Offer, AMEC had acquired 95.3% of the below each 1% threshold thereafter.
outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares.
Amec Foster Wheeler 182 Annual report and accounts 2014 Taxation information for US Holders Following completion of the Offer, on 8 December 2014, AMEC through its subsidiaries and Foster Wheeler entered into a Background A summary is provided below of the material US federal income merger agreement, which provided for the squeeze-out merger of Foster Wheeler AG under Swiss law.
The squeeze-out merger tax and UK tax consequences for a US Holder defined below of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the was subject to the approval of the merger agreement by at least 90% of the outstanding voting rights of Foster Wheeler AG, Company.
This section addresses only the tax position of a US Holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
which was received on 19 January 2015.
Agreements with former Foster Wheeler directors This section does not consider the provisions of the IRC known Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, AMEC entered into as the Medicare Contribution tax or the tax consequences for letters of appointment with Kent Masters and Stephanie Newby holders subject to other special rules, such as: regarding their appointment as non-executive directors of Amec X certain financial institutions: Foster Wheeler following the completion of the acquisition.
X Amec Foster Wheeler also entered into a co-ordination and insurance companies: settlement agreement with Kent Masters relating to his X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market termination arrangements as CEO of Foster Wheeler.
method of tax accounting: Credit facility agreement X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or credit facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the International Limited as facility agent and Bank of America ordinary shares or ADSs: Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland X persons whose functional currency for US federal income tax plc as original lenders.
In July 2014, the facility was amended purposes is not the US dollar: to increase the financing available to US$2,260m.
The credit X partnerships or other entities classified as partnerships for facility comprises three loan facilities totalling US$1,910m US federal income tax purposes: and a multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$350m.
Further details of the terms and conditions of the credit X persons liable to the alternative minimum tax: facility agreement are set out in note 19 to the consolidated X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual financial statements.
retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts: Exchange controls and other limitations affecting X persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful security holders permanent residents of the US: There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that X restrict or affect the export or import of capital or that affect the tax-exempt organisations: payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK X persons who acquired the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs resident holders of the Companys securities, except for certain pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options restrictions imposed from time to time by the UK Treasury or otherwise in connection with employment: or pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1964 and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the government or X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own 10% residents of certain countries.
or more of the Companys voting stock.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents to does not deal with the position of a US Holder who is resident hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Companys or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares document to an overseas address.
It is, however, the Companys or ADSs are attributable, i. e. those who are referred to below as current practice to send every notice or other document to all trading in the UK.
shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register of members, with the exception of details of the Companys DRIP, which are not sent to shareholders with recorded addresses in the US or Canada.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 183 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Taxation of dividends As used herein, a US Holder is a person who, for the purposes of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of UK taxation Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required to ordinary shares or ADSs and is: withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
X a citizen or individual resident of the US: A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes X a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Companys political subdivision thereof: ADSs or ordinary shares.
X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax US federal income taxation regardless of its source: A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust: or federal income tax purposes.
Distributions in excess of the Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits will X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holders trust for US federal income tax purposes.
basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, existing Because the Company has not historically maintained, and does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015.
These laws, and that practice, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
As a result, the This section is further based in part upon the representations of Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit to the IRS as dividends.
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For US federal income tax purposes, Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term ADSs.
For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares income.
A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has represented by those ADSs.
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for date.
The Company expects that the dividends paid by the ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve constitute qualified dividend income.
US Holders should consult tax may arise as described below.
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are favourable rates.
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, Holders of ADSs.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be for qualified dividend income.
Accordingly, the availability of eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income could be to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs are preUS corporations.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, released.
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and outside the US.
We outline below the consequences for The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be the US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding at the spot sterling US dollar exchange rate on the date the the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from sources within the US.
Amec Foster Wheeler 184 Annual report and accounts 2014 Inheritance and estate taxes Taxation of capital gains UK taxation UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for years preceding death.
For UK inheritance tax purposes, a transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or retains some benefit in the shares.
Special UK inheritance tax Companys ordinary shares or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs the individual owns assets situated in the UK.
Whilst UK tax law during that period may, for the year of assessment when the is unclear as to whether the Companys ADSs are considered individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC on capital gains subject to any available exemption or relief, is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Companys notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated as ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
However, HMRC considers that the US UK Double Taxation US federal income taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal the purposes of the US UK Double Taxation Convention and income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of adjusted tax basis of the securities.
Any capital gain or loss will the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has held applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the the securities for more than one year.
The capital gain or loss ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property of will generally be income or loss from sources within the US a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of capital losses is subject to limitations.
Where the ordinary shares PFIC status or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC for be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a UK 31 December 2014.
Management reviews the Companys national.
PFIC status annually and it is subject to change.
A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled on the sale or other disposal of the Companys ordinary to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital Companys ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability gain.
Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder to UK inheritance tax.
Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit for ordinary shares or ADSs were held.
Any gain that is allocated UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Companys to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary federal estate tax.
Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also apply.
Similar rules would apply to any excess distribution as determined for US federal income tax purposes received on the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The preferential rates for qualified dividend income received by certain non-corporate US Holders would not apply to dividends received in any year in which the Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately following a year in which the Company was a PFIC.
If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may be required by the US Treasury Department.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 185 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT US information reporting and back-up withholding Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the with respect to the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported shares concerned on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under applicable regulations.
service or their nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs.
In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged to fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited against shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt the US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US EU law.
In HMRCs view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate duty charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into a refund claim with the IRS.
clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they are Foreign financial asset reporting an integral part of the issue of share capital.
HMRCs view is US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including currently being challenged in further litigation.
debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year or, for certain the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing to a holder of the Companys ADSs.
joint returns, certain higher thresholds may be required to file an information report with respect to such assets with their US Foreign currency translation federal income tax returns.
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average exchange rate between Sterling and the US dollar, calculated by The Companys ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business financial assets subject to these requirements unless they in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, are held in an account at a financial institution in which case were as follows: the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign financial institution.
Year ended 31 December 1 US$ UK stamp duty and SDRT 2010 1.54 UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including 2011 1.60 instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary 2012 1.59 shares.
Transfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to UK 2013 1.57 stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration rounded 2014 1.65 up to the nearest 5.
SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement to For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as moneys worth.
SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% follows: of the agreed consideration rounded up to the nearest penny.
The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already 1 US$ paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional Month High Low agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC and September 2014 1.66 1.61 the appropriate stamp duty paid.
October 2014 1.62 1.59 Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase November 2014 1.60 1.56 or transfer of the Companys ADSs, provided that the ADSs and December 2014 1.57 1.55 any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are January 2015 1.54 1.50 executed and remain at all times outside the UK.
At the close of business in London on 25 March 2015, the sterling US dollar exchange rate was 1 US$1.49.
Amec Foster Wheeler 186 Annual report and accounts 2014 NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating corporate Significant differences between corporate governance practices and NYSE listing standards governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals qualified to become members of the Board and to recommend Background Our corporate governance practices are designed to be to the Board a set of corporate governance principles.
The Code requires companies to have a nominations committee compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our statement of compliance with but does not require a corporate governance committee.
Our Nominations Committee is concerned only with the the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 44. membership of the Board.
Corporate governance issues We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the Board.
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to to a foreign private issuer.
We disclose below the significant comprise at least three independent directors.
Whilst our Audit differences between our corporate governance practices and Committee comprises independent non-executive directors those that are required of US companies that are listed on the and currently has five members, it should be noted that only NYSE.
two members of the committee need be present for there to be a quorum.
Corporate governance guidelines Compliance certification The Code contains a series of principles and provisions.
It is not, however, mandatory for companies to follow these principles.
NYSE rules require that the CEO of a US company must Instead, companies must disclose how they have applied certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is not aware of them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain the reasons any violation by the Company of any of the NYSEs corporate for any areas of non-compliance.
By comparison, the NYSE governance listing standards.
As the Company is a foreign listing standards require US companies to adopt and disclose private issuer, the CEO is not required to make this certification.
However, the CEO is required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing if any of the Companys executive officers become aware Independence of any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance Different tests of independence for directors are applied under listing standards that are applicable to the Company.
the Code and the NYSE listing standards.
The Board has carried out an assessment based on the independence requirements Documents on display of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each of The Company is subject to the information requirements of the non-executive directors except Kent Masters is independent the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign within the meaning of those requirements.
As the Company is private issuers.
In accordance with these requirements, the a foreign private issuer, the Board is not required to take into Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related consideration the definition of independence set out in the documents with the SEC.
Certain other announcements made NYSEs listing standards.
by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K.
Committees Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at nominating corporate governance committee, an audit 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549.
Information on the committee and a compensation committee, each composed operation of the public reference room can be obtained by entirely of independent directors.
Each of these committees calling the SECs Office of Investor Education and Advocacy is required to have a written charter which addresses on 1 800 732 0330. the committees purpose and responsibilities and the You may also access information submitted by the Company compensation committee must have sole authority and to the SEC through the SECs website, www.
gov adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, independent legal counsel and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, each of which complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for inspection on our website.
Whilst these terms of reference are generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 187 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Cross reference to Form 20-F Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n a 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n a 3 Key information A Selected financial data Five-year record 192 Foreign currency translation 186 B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n a C Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n a D Risk Factors Risk Factors 164-168 4 Information on the Company A History and development of the Company History and Development 163 Note 24 Acquisitions and disposals 148-151 B Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5 Chief Executives statement 8-11 Our business model 14-15 Delivering excellence 16-19 Our markets 26-27 Financial review Seasonality 31 C Organisational structure Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 190-191 D Property, plant and equipment Financial review Property, plant and equipment 38 4A Unresolved staff comments None 5 Operating and financial review and prospects A Operating results Financial review Operating results 30-35 Prior year operating results 173-175 B Liquidity and capital resources Financial review Liquidity and capital resources 35-37 Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 134-139 Note 23 Analysis of net debt cash 147 C Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review Research and development 37 D Trend information Global market trends 25 Financial review Operating results 30-35 E Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements 39 Note 25 Commitments Operating lease 152 commitments Note 26 Contingent liabilities 153 F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review Contractual obligations 39 G Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 194 6 Directors, senior management and employees A Directors and senior management Our board of directors 45-47 B Compensation Directors remuneration report 68-73 Note 27 Related party transactions 154 C Board practices Our board of directors 45-47 Directors remuneration report 66 Audit committee 51 Remuneration committee 60 D Employees Note 6 Staff costs and employee numbers 117 E Share ownership Note 22 Share capital and reserves 144 Share-based payments Note 27 Related party transactions 154 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions A Major shareholders Other information Shareholdings 179 B Related party transactions Note 27 Related party transactions 154 C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n a Amec Foster Wheeler 188 Annual report and accounts 2014 Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 8 Financial information A Consolidated financial statements and other Consolidated financial statements 96-155 financial information Report of independent registered public 95 accounting firm Legal proceedings Note 26 Contingent liabilities 153 Dividends Financial Review Dividend 33 B Significant changes None n a 9 The offer and listing A Offer and listing details Other information Share price history 179 B Plan of distribution Not applicable n a C Markets Other information Markets 178-179 D Selling shareholders Not applicable n a E Dilution Not applicable n a F Expenses of the issue Not applicable n a 10 Additional information A Share capital Not applicable n a B Memorandum and articles of association Other information Articles of Association 180-182 C Material contracts Other information Material contracts 182-183 D Exchange controls Other information Exchange controls and other 183 limitations affecting security holders E Taxation Other information Taxation information for US 183-186 Holders F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n a G Statement by experts Not applicable n a H Documents on display Other information Documents on display 187 I Subsidiary information Not applicable n a 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 134-139 12 Description of securities other than equity securities A Debt securities Not applicable n a B Warrants and rights Not applicable n a C Other securities Not applicable n a D American depositary shares Other information Holders of ADSs Fees 177-178 payable by ADS holders 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies None n a 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders and use of proceeds None n a 15 Controls and procedures Accountability Internal controls 82 16A Audit Committee financial expert Audit committee Members 51 16B Code of ethics Leadership Board role and responsibilities 49 16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee External audit 54 16D Exemptions from the listing standards for audit Not applicable n a committees 16E Purchase of equity securities Other information Purchase of ordinary shares 179 16F Change in registrants certifying accountant Not applicable n a 16G Corporate governance Other information Significant differences 187 between corporate governance practices and NYSE listing standards 16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n a 17 Financial statements Not applicable n a 18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 96-155 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 189 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
