Notes to the consolidated accounts 1 Significant accounting policies On 13 November 2014, following Amec plc acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the company changed its name from Amec plc to Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
The primary market for Amec Foster Wheelers shares is the London Stock Exchange where we have a premium listing and our shares are admitted to the main market.
Since the completion of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the companys securities have also been traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Statement of compliance The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year, and the Groups share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method of accounting.
In accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002, the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2014 adopted IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 156 to 162.
From the Groups perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Accounting standards adopted in the year There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements.
It also carries forward guidance on recognition and derecognition on financial instruments from IAS 39.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective.
Under IFRS 15 an entity recognises revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied.
That is when the control of goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
The standard provides far more prescriptive guidance with regards to specific scenarios and requires extensive disclosures.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early application permitted.
The application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 in the future may have a material impact on the amounts reported and disclosures made in the Groups accounts.
However it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 until the Group performs a detailed review.
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share, are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 103 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from: X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 Business Combinations: X long-term contracts under IAS 11 Construction Contracts: X intangible assets including goodwill under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets: X provisions under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets: and X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits.
In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits and in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations During the year the Group acquired Foster Wheeler.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3.
Determining the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates.
This involved the use of valuation models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash flows of Foster Wheeler: the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for key customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts.
Further information about the assumptions used for calculating provisions and goodwill are documented below.
IAS 11 Construction Contracts A significant amount of the Groups activities is undertaken via long-term contracts.
These contracts are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues.
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed contract valuations.
In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span more than one reporting period.
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved.
The estimates of contract costs and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures.
In particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims.
The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts.
Due to the nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts.
IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The determination of carrying value involves significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and estimates including the future cash flows of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those cash flows.
See note 12 for further details of the impairment reviews performed during the year.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is the fair value of the asset at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Amec Foster Wheeler 104 Annual report and accounts 2014 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action.
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed.
The Group has a significant asbestos related provision.
Some of the Groups US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Groups subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Groups best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue up until 2050.
The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US Treasury yield curve discount rate.
See note 21 for further details of the Groups provisions.
IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations.
For Amec Foster Wheeler, these assumptions are important given the relative size of the schemes that remain open for future accrual.
See note 14 for further details of the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007, SPIE, which was sold in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013.
The cash flows of discontinued operations are fully consolidated within Amec Foster Wheeler up to the date of sale.
The results and other disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are shown in note 9.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future.
During the year, the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG was partially funded by utilising committed banking facilities.
This resulted in the Group having net debt of 803m as at 31 December 2014 31 December 2013: net cash of 121m.
In addition, as at 31 December 2014 the Group had committed banking facilities of 1,863m.
As at 31 December 2014, the undrawn portion of the Groups committed facilities was 440m.
The Group has complied with all applicable covenant requirements and has assessed it will be able to meet expected mandatory interest and repayment of its banking facilities in place.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and its committed banking facilities.
The Groups policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
If for any reason the Group is unable to continue as a going concern, it could impact the Groups ability to realise assets at their recognised values: in particular goodwill and other intangible assets and to extinguish liabilities in the normal course of business at the amounts stated in the consolidated accounts.
Accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated accounts.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 105 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2014.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
The Groups investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly: X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation: X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation: and X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly.
Bid costs Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed as the preferred bidder.
Subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder, bid costs are capitalised and held on the balance sheet provided the award of the contract is virtually certain and it is expected to generate sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the bid costs.
Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, the proceeds are applied first against the balance of costs included in the balance sheet, with any additional amounts treated as deferred income and released to profit over the period of the contract.
Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
Amec Foster Wheeler 106 Annual report and accounts 2014 1 Significant accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition: convertible without an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheelers cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits more than three months.
Development expenditure Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess of the amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets have been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete and the asset is available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
During the period of development, the asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area.
An operation is classified as a discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met.
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value: and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face of the consolidated income statement.
In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying performance and to provide consistency with internal management reporting.
Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: acquisitionrelated costs: restructuring costs: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets: and gains and losses on the disposal or closure of businesses.
Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs including external advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs, the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 107 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value.
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value i. e. proceeds received net of directly attributable transaction fees.
Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The gain or loss of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies The Groups consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
An entitys functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction.
Entities which have multiple foreign currency transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly average exchange rate.
The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, or forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve.
They are recycled and recognised as a profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Impairment The carrying values of all of the Groups assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there are indications of an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
Amec Foster Wheeler 108 Annual report and accounts 2014 1 Significant accounting policies continued Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands trademarks, order backlog, patents and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Customer relationships Two to 18 years Brand trademarks Up to 20 years Order backlog Three to five years Patents 15 years Software Three to seven years Other Up to six years Inventories Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the development.
Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses net of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease.
The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Net financing expense Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment, until the relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 109 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 26 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada.
These are judged to have characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption.
Credits are recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes, can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including the Groups share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations.
Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value added tax and other sales taxes.
The Groups revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts.
Contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period.
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked, and is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue.
Flow-through costs on cost reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the  method, measured by reference to physical completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs.
If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract.
Variations are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to the contract price can be measured reliably.
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design and disputed variations in contract work.
Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can be measured reliably.
Amec Foster Wheeler 110 Annual report and accounts 2014 1 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded.
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, less provision for recognised losses and progress billings.
Progress billings that have not been settled by customers including retentions related to contracts in progress are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any doubtful debts.
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances.
Advances are amounts received by the customer before the related work is performed.
Share-based payments There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler shares: these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler.
The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended that they will be settled on a net basis.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 111 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy and related sectors.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Group Leadership Team for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014, the Groups continuing operations comprised of four operating segments: Americas, Europe, Growth Regions and Investment Services.
For the short period between its acquisition and the end of 2014, Foster Wheelers results were presented to the Group Leadership Team analysed by its existing operating segments: E&C Services and Global Power Group.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three new geographical operating segments: Americas: Northern Europe & CIS: and Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe: with Foster Wheelers E&C Services segment being merged into these segments.
Foster Wheelers Global Power Group continues to be reported as a separate operating segment.
Investment Services also continues to be reported separately.
Details of the services offered by each segment and the end markets in which they operate are given on pages 3 to 5 and 26 to 27.
The Group Leadership Team uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Trading profit is, therefore, the measure of the segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Trading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items: the amortisation of intangible assets: and asbestos-related costs net of insurance recoveries.
Trading profit includes the Groups share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results Revenue Profit loss 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 m m m m m m Americas 2,072 2,247 2,500 207 241 233 Europe 1,119 1,227 1,080 101 93 95 Growth Regions 590 536 531 30 33 32 E&C Services 221 4 Global Power Group 53 2 Investment Services 6 6 9 8 11 7 4,061 4,016 4,120 352 378 367 Internal revenue 68 42 32 External revenue 3,993 3,974 4,088 1 Corporate costs 31 35 33 2 Trading profit 321 343 334 3 Net financing expense 4 11 7 Adjusted profit before tax 317 332 327 4 Tax on results of joint ventures 6 5 5 311 327 322 Intangible amortisation 49 47 44 Exceptional and asbestos related items 107 25 24 Profit before income tax 155 255 254 1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2 T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation, pre-tax exceptional items and asbestos related items of 299m 2013: 315m: 2012: 311m, but including joint venture trading profit of 22m 2013: 28m: 2012: 23m.
3 Net financing expense includes Amec Foster Wheelers share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Trading profit 22 28 23 Net financing expense 4 9 6 Tax 6 5 5 12 14 12 Amec Foster Wheeler 112 Annual report and accounts 2014 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued Transactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 113 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 3 Revenue 2014 2013 2012 m m m Construction contracts 917 342 414 Services 3,076 3,632 3,674 3,993 3,974 4,088 The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11 and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheelers role is as a service provider, for example project management.
4 Profit before net financing expense continuing operations 2014 2013 2012 m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 12 11 Minimum payments under operating leases 87 96 92 Research and development government credits 23 22 5 There are no material receipts from subleases.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Fees paid to the auditor and its associates: The auditing of the accounts 3.9 0.3 0.3 The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.5 1.1 1.0 Taxation compliance services 0.4 0.3 0.3 All taxation advisory services other than compliance 0.1 0.1 All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 6.4 1.6 0.2 All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 0.1 12.3 3.5 2.0 Amec Foster Wheeler 114 Annual report and accounts 2014 5 Amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos-related items 2014 2013 2012 m m m Continuing operations: Administrative expenses exceptional items 86 18 24 Administrative expenses intangible amortisation 49 47 44 135 65 68 Loss on business disposals and closures 16 7 Net financing expense 5 156 72 68 Taxation credit charge on exceptional items of continuing operations 6 6 9 Taxation charge on restructuring 16 Taxation credit on intangible amortisation 12 20 12 18 2 21 Post-tax amortisation and exceptional items of continuing operations 138 74 47 Exceptional items of discontinued operations posttax 19 5 Post-tax amortisation and exceptional items 157 74 42 Post-tax exceptional items for 2014 are further analysed as follows: 2014 Profit in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals Asbestosexceptional disposals closures and closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 21 5 16 9 82 107 Discontinued operations 23 23 23 Loss before tax 44 5 39 9 82 130 Taxation on exceptional items 5 5 5 10 Loss after tax 39 5 34 9 77 120 During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit.
This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 23m associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of 44m.
This includes a provision 11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS business which was sold in 2007.
There was a credit of 5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year and classified as continuing.
Other exceptional items of 82m includes transaction costs of 37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, 35m costs of integrating the two businesses and 4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition.
Integration costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of 18m which includes associated internal labour, plus 17m costs of achieving cost synergies including 14m redundancy costs.
In addition 6m was incurred in completing the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units.
There was a charge of 8m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and 1m in respect of unwinding the discount.
Out of the 82m of other exceptional items 58m was paid in cash during the year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 115 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 5 Amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued Post-tax exceptional items for 2013 are further analysed as follows: 2013 Loss in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals exceptional disposals closures and closures items Total m m m m m Continuing operations 7 7 18 25 Discontinued operations 6 6 6 Loss before tax 6 7 13 18 31 Taxation charge on restructuring 16 16 Taxation on exceptional items 6 6 6 Loss after tax 7 7 40 47 Additional indemnity provisions of 10m and costs in respect of businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued were offset by the release of a 5m litigation provision and indemnity provisions no longer required, and give a pre-tax exceptional loss on disposals of 6m.
There were additional litigation provisions of 9m offset by releases of 2m in respect of businesses closed in a prior year and classified as continuing.
Exceptional costs of 18m in continuing operations includes 14m restructuring costs associated with the management reorganisation into geographic business units and transaction costs of 4m which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income statement.
A tax provision of 16m has been established for potential withholding tax following a Group restructuring that resulted in a significant amount of cash being repatriated from foreign subsidiaries.
Post-tax exceptional items for 2012 are further analysed as follows: 2012 Loss in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals exceptional disposals closures and closures items Total m m m m m Continuing operations 24 24 Discontinued operations 11 11 17 6 Loss before tax 11 11 7 18 Taxation on exceptional items 3 3 5 8 Loss after tax 8 8 2 10 A loss on disposals of 11m arose from adjustments to provisions held in respect of a business sold in prior years and classified as discontinued and foreign exchange movements on provisions established on the disposal of SPIE.
Exceptional costs of 24m in continuing operations included the 11m costs of funding a joint venture which was part of a recent acquisition, costs of 11m associated with restructuring following the management reorganisation into geographic business units and transaction and deferred compensation costs which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income statement.
Transaction costs of 2m were incurred in the year.
The exceptional gain in discontinued operations of 17m arises from the recognition of an insurance receivable following the UK Supreme Court judgement on mesothelioma liability, a provision against which was established a number of years ago.
Amec Foster Wheeler 116 Annual report and accounts 2014 6 Staff costs and employee numbers continuing operations 2014 2013 2012 m m m Wages and salaries 1,466 1,459 1,424 Social security costs 100 98 94 Equity-settled share-based payments note 22 8 14 15 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 37 36 34 Defined benefit pension scheme expense note 14 31 32 32 1,642 1,639 1,599 2014 2013 2012 number number number The average number of people employed was as follows: Americas 11,839 13,046 13,516 Europe 7,154 7,216 7,294 Growth Regions 3,295 3,070 2,348 E&C Services 1,357 Global Power Group 322 Investment Services Centre 258 240 221 24,225 23,572 23,379 The average number of people employed by E&C Services and Global Power Group relates to the period following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Details of directors remuneration are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 74.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
7 Net financing expense continuing operations 2014 2013 2012 m m m Financial income Interest income on bank deposits 3 7 7 Other interest and similar income 5 3 2 Pension financing income 2 1 Foreign exchange gains 1 1 1 11 12 10 Financial expense Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 10 9 5 Other interest and similar expense 4 3 2 Pension finance expense 3 Foreign exchange losses 1 2 1 Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision 1 16 14 11 Net financing expense 5 2 1 The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of 1m and the amortisation of facility fees of 4m included within interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts have been presented as exceptional items in the income statement.
There were no exceptional items included in net financing expense in the year ended 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 117 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 8 Income tax continuing operations Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Income tax expense on continuing operations before amortisation, exceptionals and asbestos related items 67 67 68 Income tax credit on amortisation 12 20 12 Income tax charge on restructuring 16 Income tax credit charge in respect of other exceptional items 6 6 9 Total income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 49 69 47 2014 2013 2012 m m m Current tax UK corporation tax at 21.5% 2013: 23.25%: 2012: 24.5% 21 18 16 Double tax relief 2 3 4 Overseas tax 53 80 56 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6 26 7 66 69 61 Deferred tax UK deferred tax at 20.0% 2013: 20.0%: 2012: 23.0%, pension surplus at 20.0% 2013: 20.0%: 2012: 35.0% origination and reversal of temporary differences 1 16 4 Overseas deferred tax 14 14 15 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4 2 3 17 14 Total income tax expense for continuing operations 49 69 47 In his budget speeches on 21 March 2012 and 20 March 2013, the UK Chancellor of the Exchequer announced reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 23% from 1 April 2013, 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, the reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 20% had been substantively enacted.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Profit before income tax from continuing operations 155 255 254 Expected income tax expense 34 59 62 Non-deductible expenses pre-exceptional 13 12 9 Non-deductible expenses exceptional 11 1 Non-taxable income pre-exceptional 6 6 5 Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 20.0% 2013: 20.0%: 2012: 35.0% 21 1 Impact of change in UK tax rate to 20.0% 2013: 20.0%: 2012: 23.0% on deferred tax 3 Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than 21.5% 2013: 23.25%: 2012: 24.5% 7 25 3 Change in recognition of deferred tax assets 2 28 11 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 10 24 10 Effects of results of joint ventures 2 4 4 Total income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 49 69 47 Amec Foster Wheeler 118 Annual report and accounts 2014 8 Income tax continuing operations continued 2014 2013 2012 m m m Tax recognised directly in equity Current tax 1 Deferred tax note 15 11 21 27 Tax credit charge recognised directly in equity 11 21 26 As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, the deferred tax liability arising on the UK pension surplus has been measured at the substantively enacted UK tax rate of 20%.
It was measured as at 31 December 2012 at 35% being the tax rate that would be applied if the surplus was refunded.
The change in 2013 reflected the fact there was no longer any reasonable expectation of a refund of the pension surplus in advance of anything that may have become due on the eventual winding-up of the scheme.
The impact of the change was a deferred tax credit in respect of continuing operations of 21m, a deferred tax credit in respect of discontinued operations of 4m and a deferred tax charge of 12m recognised in other comprehensive income during the year ended 31 December 2013.
9 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years, as well as the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Revenue 13 15 70 Cost of sales and net operating expenses 3 25 74 Loss before exceptional items and income tax 10 10 4 Attributable tax 2 2 1 8 8 3 Loss on disposal 23 6 11 Tax on disposals 4 6 3 Other exceptional items 17 Tax on exceptional items 4 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations 27 8 2 The negative revenue of 13m and loss of 10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 relates to the settlement of final accounts and additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK conventional power business.
The loss on disposals of 23m 2013: 6m relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years.
Other exceptional items in 2012 related to the recognition of an insurance receivable, following the UK Supreme Court judgement on mesothelioma liability.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 3 12 12 Net cash flow from investing activities 3 2 4 14 16 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 119 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 10 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement.
The calculation of the average number of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Performance Share Plan and those held in treasury by the company.
2014 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average shares Earnings shares Earnings shares Earnings Earnings number per share Earnings number per share Earnings number per share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic earnings from continuing operations 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 206 315 65.2 Share options 2 0.2 2 0.4 2 0.4 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.8 4 0.9 4 0.8 Diluted earnings from continuing operations 109 311 35.1 187 299 62.5 206 321 64.0 Basic loss earnings from discontinued operations 27 302 8.9 8 293 2.7 2 315 0.6 Share options 2 0.1 2 2 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.2 4 4 Diluted loss earnings from discontinued operations 27 311 8.6 8 299 2.7 2 321 0.6 Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Profit for the year from continuing operations 106 186 207 Loss profit attributable to non-controlling interests 3 1 1 Basic and diluted profit from continuing operations 109 187 206 Amec Foster Wheeler 120 Annual report and accounts 2014 10 Earnings per share continued In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos related items, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
2014 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average shares Earnings shares Earnings shares Earnings Earnings number per share Earnings number per share Earnings number per share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic earnings from continuing operations 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 206 315 65.2 Exceptional items and asbestos related items post-tax 101 33.4 47 16.0 15 4.7 Amortisation post-tax 37 12.3 27 9.2 32 10.2 Basic earnings from continuing operations before amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos related items 247 302 81.8 261 293 89.0 253 315 80.1 Share options 2 0.5 2 0.6 2 0.5 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 1.8 4 1.2 4 1.0 Diluted earnings from continuing operations before amortisation, exceptional items and asbestos related items 247 311 79.5 261 299 87.2 253 321 78.6 Basic loss earnings from discontinued operations 27 302 8.9 8 293 2.7 2 315 0.6 Exceptional items post-tax 19 6.3 5 1.4 Basic loss earnings from discontinued operations before exceptional items 8 302 2.6 8 293 2.7 3 315 0.8 Share options 2 2 2 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.1 4 4 Diluted loss from discontinuing operations before exceptional items 8 311 2.5 8 299 2.7 3 321 0.8 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 121 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2014 30 95 125 Exchange and other movements 5 1 4 Acquired through business combinations 84 34 118 Additions 6 8 14 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2014 124 133 257 Depreciation As at 1 January 2014 17 69 86 Exchange and other movements 2 2 Provided during the year 6 10 16 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2014 24 76 100 Cost As at 1 January 2013 32 103 135 Exchange and other movements 2 4 6 Additions 2 8 10 Disposals 2 12 14 As at 31 December 2013 30 95 125 Depreciation As at 1 January 2013 17 75 92 Exchange and other movements 1 3 4 Provided during the year 3 9 12 Disposals 2 12 14 As at 31 December 2013 17 69 86 Net book value As at 31 December 2014 100 57 157 As at 31 December 2013 13 26 39 As at 1 January 2013 15 28 43 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m The net book value of land and buildings comprised: Freehold 68 5 Short leasehold 32 8 100 13 The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2014 was 6m 2013: nil.
The amount acquired through business combinations was 6m 2013: nil.
Additions during the year include nil 2013: nil under finance leases.
Amec Foster Wheeler 122 Annual report and accounts 2014 12 Intangible assets Customer Brands Order Goodwill relationships trademarks backlog Patents Software Total m m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2014 792 192 23 9 66 1,082 Exchange and other movements 15 8 1 1 2 27 Acquired through business combinations 1,617 372 155 127 110 5 2,386 Additions 51 51 Disposals and retirements 3 1 1 5 As at 31 December 2014 2,424 569 179 136 110 123 3,541 Amortisation As at 1 January 2014 35 85 19 7 29 175 Exchange and other movements 1 2 1 2 Provided during the year 24 3 6 1 15 49 Disposals and retirements 3 1 4 As at 31 December 2014 34 108 22 12 1 45 222 Cost As at 1 January 2013 831 197 35 12 53 1,128 Exchange and other movements 52 5 1 1 59 Acquired through business combinations 13 5 1 19 Additions 15 15 Disposals and retirements 5 12 3 1 21 As at 31 December 2013 792 192 23 9 66 1,082 Amortisation As at 1 January 2013 40 61 27 10 21 159 Exchange and other movements 5 2 1 1 1 10 Provided during the year 31 5 1 10 47 Disposals and retirements 5 12 3 1 21 As at 31 December 2013 35 85 19 7 29 175 Net book value As at 31 December 2014 2,390 461 157 124 109 78 3,319 As at 31 December 2013 757 107 4 2 37 907 As at 1 January 2013 791 136 8 2 32 969 The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at 31 December 2014 was 30m 2013: nil.
Additions during the year include 33m 2013: nil of software held under deferred payment arrangements.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 123 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 12 Intangible assets continued The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed against the three core geographies of Americas, Europe and Growth Regions, along with the two new reportable segments of Foster Wheeler, E&C Services and Global Power Group being the lowest level of cash-generating units CGU monitored for goodwill purposes.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler has been allocated to the CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
This has resulted in an allocation of goodwill generated by the acquisition to the Americas, Europe and Growth Regions CGUs.
The recoverable amount of the CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections included in the financial budgets approved by the Board for 2015 and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table below.
For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include no growth in 2016 and 2017, 10% growth in 2018, 2019 and 2020 and 3% growth per annum thereafter.
In 2013 financial budgets approved by management covering a two-year period were used together with a 2% growth thereafter.
The long-term growth rates are in line with long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The value in use has been compared to the carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of any of the CGUs.
The financial budgets reflect managements judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations 1 of future performance.
The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin and the conversion of trading profit into cash cash conversion.
Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book remains strong at 6.3 billion as at 31 December 2014 2013: 4.1 billion.
The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins being generated on contracts in progress and managements view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with Amec Foster Wheelers growth strategy.
The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
Goodwill is as follows: Goodwill Pre-tax Goodwill Pre-tax 31 December discount rate 31 December discount rate 2014 2014 2013 2013 m % m % Americas 635 11 431 12 Europe 399 11 250 12 Growth Regions 203 11 76 12 E&C Services 675 11 Global Power Group 478 12 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional items but including joint venture trading profit, as a percentage of revenue.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed, at the individual CGU level, in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions.
For example, a 10% decrease in volume, with all other assumptions held constant, or a 1% decrease in margin, with all other assumptions held constant, did not identify any impairments.
Similarly, zero growth after the initial two-year period, with all other assumptions held constant or a 2% increase in discount rate, did not identify any impairments in the Americas, Europe.
E&C Services or Global Power Group CGUs.
The value in use calculation referred to above showed headroom of 100m in the Growth Regions CGU.
However, applying zero terminal growth, a 1% reduction on margin or a 2% increase in discount rate would eliminate the headroom in this CGU.
Amec Foster Wheeler 124 Annual report and accounts 2014 13 Interests in joint ventures Interests in joint ventures The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint ventures in either the current or prior year.
Details in aggregate of the Groups interests in all individually immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method are as follows: m Net book value As at 1 January 2014 52 Acquired through business combinations 73 Disposal of businesses 2 Additions 1 Total comprehensive income 12 Dividends received 14 As at 31 December 2014 122 As at 1 January 2013 47 Exchange and other movements 1 Additions 1 Reclassifications 1 Total comprehensive income 14 Dividends received 8 As at 31 December 2013 52 During 2013 total comprehensive income of 14m was net of provisions of 15m taken against the comprehensive income of one joint venture entity, where the corresponding increase in the carrying value of the joint venture was not recoverable.
This joint venture was disposed during the current year.
Principal Group companies are listed on pages 190 to 191.
PPP service concessions Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows: Financial Equity Concession Net equity close stake period invested Transport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years 13m Power Petropower Energa Limitada, Chile 1998 85% 20 years 54m Interests in joint operations The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 125 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, there are three principal defined benefit schemes.
In the UK these are the AMEC Staff pension scheme, which also has an associated executive top-up scheme and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan and in the US, The Foster Wheeler Inc.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are closed to new members but remain open to further accrual.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is a hybrid benefit arrangement.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and further accrual, but the defined contribution section remains open to further accrual.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan is also closed to new members and further accrual.
Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are average salary plans for UK employees.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan was a final salary pension plan.
All three schemes require contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
These schemes are governed by the employment laws of the UK.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and salary each year.
Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year relative to the UKs Retail Prices Index for the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is adjusted each year relative to the UKs Consumer Price Index.
Each scheme is established under trust law and are governed by a Board of Trustees, which consists of employers and employees representatives.
In addition, the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes have two independent trustees.
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the Board of Trustees is required by legislation to review the level of funding in the pension plans.
The Board of Trustees decides the contribution levels in consultation with the employers based on the results of this triennial review.
In the event that there is a funding deficit, the Trustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short a period as is reasonably affordable.
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plans are exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
The valuations used have been based on the preliminary valuation of AMEC Staff pension scheme and the final valuation of the AMEC Executive pension scheme as at 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2011 respectively.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plans most recent valuation took place as at 1 April 2013.
These schemes have been updated by the schemes actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes as at 31 December 2014.
The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2014.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan provides pension benefits to certain full-time employees.
Under the pension plan, retirement benefits are primarily a function of both years of service and level of compensation.
The pension plan is closed to new members and further accrual.
Amec Foster Wheeler 126 Annual report and accounts 2014 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2012 % % % The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme Rate of discount 3.6 4.6 4.5 Rate of inflation 3.0 3.3 2.9 Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.3 2.9 Rate of increase in pensions in payment service before after 1 January 2008 2.9 2.0 3.2 2.2 2.8 2.0 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Rate of discount 3.7 Rate of inflation 3.0 Rate of increase in salaries 1.9 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 1.1 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Rate of discount 3.6 Rate of inflation 2.5 Rate of increase in salaries N A Rate of increase in pensions in payment N A In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes.
For the three principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2014 2013 2013 2012 2012 Male Female Male Female Male Female years years years years years years The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme Member aged 65 current life expectancy 22.5 24.6 22.9 24.4 22.8 24.3 Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 24.2 26.5 24.7 26.3 24.6 26.2 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy 23.5 23.2 N A N A N A N A Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 25.3 25.1 N A N A N A N A The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy 21.6 23.7 N A N A N A N A Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 23.2 25.4 N A N A N A N A The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 127 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2012 m m m Retirement benefit assets 102 102 86 Retirement benefit liabilities 188 62 93 Retirement benefit net liability asset 86 40 7 The retirement benefit net liability asset is analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2012 m m m The AMEC Staff and the AMEC Executive pension scheme 65 102 86 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 37 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan 57 Other smaller pension schemes 131 62 93 86 40 7 The retirement benefit liabilities of 188m 2013: 62m: 2012: 93m reflect primarily the deficits on the smaller overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2012 % % % Equities 35.4 41.3 39.8 Bonds including gilts 52.6 47.6 51.8 Property 8.4 8.8 8.2 Other 3.6 2.3 0.2 100.0 100.0 100.0 The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments.
There is a small investment in privately held pooled fund investments and the property other investments are unquoted.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Current service cost and administrative expenses 33 33 29 Interest cost 84 72 75 Interest income 86 73 72 Total amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs note 6 31 32 32 Settlement gain 3 4 Total amount recognised in the income statement 28 32 28 The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows: Cost of sales 20 19 15 Administrative expenses 10 14 10 Net financing income expense 2 1 3 Total amount recognised in the income statement 28 32 28 Amec Foster Wheeler 128 Annual report and accounts 2014 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m As at 1 January 1,743 1,652 1,618 Exchange and other movements 3 14 6 Acquired through business combinations 898 Current service cost 29 31 29 Interest cost 84 72 75 Plan participants contributions 12 12 12 Actuarial charges arising from changes in financial assumptions 278 58 8 Actuarial gains charges arising from changes in demographic assumptions 19 7 Settlements 12 4 13 Benefits paid 85 71 71 As at 31 December 2,931 1,743 1,652 The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans participants as follows: 2014 2013 2012 % % % Active plan participants 22.0 25.2 23.4 Deferred plan participants 31.3 33.8 32.5 Retirees 46.7 41.0 44.1 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17 years.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m As at 1 January 1,783 1,645 1,569 Exchange and other movements 3 8 3 Acquired through business combinations 826 Interest income 86 73 72 Actuarial gains 201 105 45 Employer contributions 32 29 30 Plan participants contributions 12 12 12 Administrative expenses 4 2 Settlements 9 9 Benefits paid 85 71 71 As at 31 December 2,845 1,783 1,645 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 129 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The movement in the scheme net liability asset during the year is as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m Scheme net asset liability as at 1 January 40 7 49 Exchange and other movements 6 3 Acquired through business combinations 72 Total charge as per note 6 31 32 32 Employer contributions 32 29 30 Settlements 3 4 4 Actuarial losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income 58 40 37 Scheme net liability asset as at 31 December 86 40 7 The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions as at 31 December 2014 is shown below: The AMEC Staff The Foster Wheeler and the Inc.
Salaried AMEC Executive The Foster Wheeler Employees pension schemes Pension Plan Pension Plan m m m Discount rate -10 bps 32 9 3 10 bps 32 9 3 Inflation -10 bps 26 6 10 bps 26 6 Salary increase -10 bps 4 1 10 bps 4 1 Mortality 1 year 61 13 10 - 1 year 61 15 10 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2014.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit schemes.
Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes.
Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows: m Year 1 126 Year 2 128 Year 3 132 Year 4 136 Year 5 140 Next five years 751 1,413 The Group expects to contribute 33m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2015.
This includes special contributions of 6m.
Amec Foster Wheeler 130 Annual report and accounts 2014 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 26 15 14 2 Intangible assets 3 233 33 Retirement benefits 68 8 46 20 Derivative financial instruments 2 1 1 Provisions 118 46 Employee share schemes 1 3 Other items 5 13 27 18 Tax losses carried forward 20 3 Tax credits carried forward 2 Deferred tax assets liabilities 245 89 320 74 Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to income tax levied by the same taxation authority 184 54 184 54 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 61 35 136 20 As at Exchange As at 1 January and other Recognised Recognised 31 December 2014 movements Acquisitions in income in equity 2014 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 13 5 4 12 Intangible assets 33 3 202 8 230 Retirement benefits 12 28 5 11 22 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Provisions 46 2 72 2 118 Employee share schemes 3 2 1 Other items 5 19 2 22 Tax losses carried forward 3 6 11 20 Tax credits carried forward 1 1 2 15 1 117 17 11 75 As at Exchange As at 1 January and other Recognised Recognised 31 December 2013 movements Acquisitions in income in equity 2013 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 10 1 4 13 Intangible assets 48 1 14 33 Retirement benefits 11 2 21 20 12 Provisions 60 2 12 46 Employee share schemes 4 1 3 Other items 3 2 10 5 Tax losses carried forward 15 1 11 3 33 3 6 21 15 The deferred tax credit of 17m 2013: 6m recognised in income consists of a credit of 16m 2013: nil relating to continuing operations and a 1m credit 2013: 6m in respect of discontinued operations.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 131 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Factors affecting the tax charge in future years There are a number of factors that may affect the Groups future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Deductible temporary differences 259 33 Tax losses 103 20 362 53 In addition, claims have been made to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to offset tax losses of up to 79m against the Groups UK taxable profits.
These losses were generated in a legacy German business in accounting periods up to 31 December 2002.
If successful, the claims will result in a refund of UK corporation tax.
The amount and availability of the refund depends on a number of factors which are currently being discussed with HMRC.
This potential refund is not included as an asset in the accounts.
As at 31 December 2014 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows: Deductible temporary Tax losses differences Total m m m Expiring within 5 years 5 28 33 Expiring within 6-10 years 2 55 57 Expiring within 11-20 years 51 51 Unlimited 45 176 221 103 259 362 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of 1,440m 2013: 355m of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be 29m 2013: 16m.
16 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Raw materials and consumables 14 Development land and work in progress 3 14 3 Amec Foster Wheeler 132 Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Current trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts expected to be recovered within one year Gross amounts due from customers 544 385 Trade receivables 784 471 Amounts owed by joint ventures 20 22 Other receivables 63 18 Prepayments and accrued income 60 56 Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor note 21 13 1,484 952 Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year Trade receivables 6 2 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 2 Other receivables 15 22 4 1,506 956 Trade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of 56m 2013: 34m relating to contracts in progress.
Trade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of 5m 2013: 2m relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses for all long-term contracts in progress for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was 16,082m 2013: 4,960m.
Trade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amounts expected to be settled within one year Trade payables 597 449 Gross amounts due to customers 361 76 Other taxation and social security costs 37 59 Other payables 139 134 Accruals 236 75 1,370 793 Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year Trade payables 1 Gross amounts due to customers 5 Other payables 4 3 Accruals 1 5 11 8 1,381 801 Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of nil 2013: 3m.
Trade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 133 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management Capital management The objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the business and to maximise shareholder value.
The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and equity.
The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group is currently in a net debt position.
The long-term net debt is targeted to be no more than two times trading profit.
The Group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it.
However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the Group.
The Group has committed banking facilities of 1,863m 2013: 477m.
This consists of a $56m 37m project debt and a 377m multi-currency revolving facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012.
The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes.
In 2014, the Group entered into acquisition facilities totalling $2,260m 1,449m.
This comprises of the following: X $250m 160m bridge to cash facility maturing August 2015: X $830m 532m bridge facility which matured February 2015 with two further six month extensions at the Groups option see below : X $830m 532m term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017, 2018 and 2019: and X $350m 225m revolving credit facility maturing May 2016.
The Group extended the $830m 532m bridge facility for 6 months in February 2015 and it is the intention to refinance this facility in the capital markets during 2015.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a 100m Sterling term loan.
This was settled in full during the year.
As at 31 December 2014, 1,267m 2013: 120m of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and 156m 2013: nil was utilised by way of Letter of Credit.
In February 2012, the board approved a share buyback programme of 400m.
A total of 37 million shares were purchased under this programme.
During 2012 and 2013, this included the use of forward share purchase contracts through close periods.
The Group completed the buyback programme on 8 February 2013 and no further purchases took place during 2014.
In November 2014, as part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the Group issued 85 million of ordinary shares.
This increased share capital by 42m and generated a share premium of 877m.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during 2014 or 2013.
Financial risk management The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk: funding and liquidity risk: counterparty credit risk: and interest rate risk.
The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are reviewed annually.
The Groups treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in October 2014.
The treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Amec Foster Wheeler 134 Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Foreign currency exchange risk The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling.
The majority of the Groups trading income is denominated in the local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base.
Where commercial contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable.
This is achieved through the use of forward currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options.
There are currently no material transactional exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged.
The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Groups earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies.
Such overseas profits are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year.
There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros.
With the introduction of the acquisition facilities detailed above the Group hedges translation exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of its borrowing either directly or via derivatives to the currency of its net assets and future free cash flow.
As a result in 2014, the Group has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships.
In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time enter into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks.
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures of a portion of borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges.
Based on the Groups net debt as at 31 December 2014, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Groups net debt would increase by 44m 2013: 26m increase in net cash.
This represents a 134m increase in foreign currency borrowings 2013: nil, a 47m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings 2013: nil and a 43m increase in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 2013: 26m.
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings, as at 31 December 2014 would decrease by 57m 2013: 8m.
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve or translation reserve.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk cash flow hedges The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded in, or involve costs in, non-local currency.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose and are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Non-current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 105 Total non-current assets 105 Current assets cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 15 56 3 Current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 318 1 Total current assets 333 56 1 3 Current liabilities cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 44 12 1 Total current liabilities 44 12 1 482 68 3 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 135 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss: 2014 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Forward exchange contracts Assets 1 438 332 106 Liabilities 1 44 44 482 376 106 Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk cash flow hedges 2013 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Forward exchange contracts Assets 3 56 55 1 Liabilities 12 12 3 68 67 1 There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2014 or 2013.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk fair value through income statement Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes in their fair value are recognised through the income statement.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Current assets 229 36 2 2 Current liabilities 422 13 12 651 49 10 2 Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk net investment hedges The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core subsidiaries in Canada, the US and Europe.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows: 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Non-current assets 105 2 Current assets 318 8 423 10 A net foreign exchange loss for the year of 4m 2013: 1m was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of these forward foreign exchange contracts and currency interest rate swaps.
Amec Foster Wheeler 136 Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Other financial derivative assets and liabilities The Group has other financial derivative assets of 1m 2013: 1m and financial derivative liabilities of 6m 2013: 1m.
Funding and liquidity risk The Groups policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and the 440m undrawn portion of the Groups committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2014.
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year.
This includes discussions with the Groups main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments.
The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Groups risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2014 was 10m, being the total net debit fair values per derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
A 60 basis point deterioration in the credit quality of the Groups derivative counterparties would have no impact on the Groups 2014 income statement 2013 nil.
Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the board approved treasury policy.
The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Groups exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit.
These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and are based primarily on credit ratings set by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Credit ratings are monitored continually by the Group treasury department.
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits more than three months at 31 December 2014 was 516m 2013: 241m.
The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through contract payment terms.
Where appropriate, payment security is sought.
Credit control practices are applied thereafter during the project execution phase.
A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
The ageing of trade receivables at the year end was: Gross Gross receivables Impairment receivables Impairment 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Not past due 402 234 Past due 0 to 30 days 163 107 Past due 31 to 120 days 99 79 1 Past due 121 to 365 days 46 6 28 10 More than one year 33 8 5 5 743 14 453 16 The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of 56m 2013: 34m expected to be recovered within one year and 5m 2013: 2m expected to be recovered after one year.
Net receivables as at 31 December 2014 include 25m 2013: nil in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 137 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk continued The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 m m As at 1 January 16 15 Increase in impairment allowance 7 3 Decrease in impairment allowance 9 2 As at 31 December 14 16 Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
Trade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings of these organisations are monitored.
Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Groups most significant customer in 2014 accounted for around 8% 2013: 8% of continuing revenues, and around 4% 2013: 4% of current trade and other receivables.
The revenue was generated in the Americas.
Interest rate risk The 377m multi-currency revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage.
The $250m 160m bridge to cash facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The $830m 532m bridge facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin which increases over time.
The $830m 532m term loan is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage.
The $350m 225m revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The $56m 37m project debt is subject to a mixture of fixed and variable interest rates.
$49m 31m is subject to an interest rate of EURIBOR plus a margin.
The remainder is subject to fixed rates of interest.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings.
Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus used to repay credit facilities.
When required the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting borrowing costs within parameters set by the Board.
The Groups policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are designated as cash flow hedges of the Groups borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2014, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, approximately 23% of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest 2013: nil.
The year-end position which was below the lower threshold has been rectified in early 2015.
Based on the Groups gross borrowings as at 31 December 2014, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by 9m 2013: 1m.
A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect.
Amec Foster Wheeler 138 Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Interest rate risk contractual maturity and effective interest rates In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature: 2014 Effective 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over 5 interest rate Total or less months years years years % m m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.80 21 18 2 1 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 1.24 495 495 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 4 1 2 2 Bank overdrafts 1.00 Bank loans 1.49 1,267 633 73 5 545 11 Finance leases 6.54 61 3 6 9 26 17 803 119 78 10 568 28 2013 Effective 6 months 6 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 interest rate Total or less months years years % m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.56 18 13 3 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 0.82 232 232 Bank overdrafts 0.21 9 9 Bank loans 1.25 120 120 121 116 3 1 1 Interest payments of 11m are expected to be paid within one year, 13m between one and two years, 22m between two and five years and 1m over five years.
Group borrowing The Groups bank overdrafts are all denominated in US Dollars 2013: US Dollars and the bank loans are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars 2013: Sterling.
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years.
Fair values Fair values are determined using observable market prices level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as follows: X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate: and X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates.
All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks.
There are no material credit valuation adjustments CVA or debit valuation adjustments DVA required on the derivatives outstanding at 31 December 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 139 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 20 Other non-current receivables and payables Other non-current receivables 2014 2013 m m Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor 90 12 Indemnities receivable 13 12 Insurance receivables 4 Lease incentives 28 Other non-current receivables 14 149 24 Other non-current payables 2014 2013 m m Deferred consideration on acquisition 2 3 Lease incentives 7 8 Other payables 35 Other post employment benefits 11 Other non-current accruals 28 83 11 21 Provisions Obligations Asbestosrelating to Property related Project disposed related litigation litigation businesses provisions Other Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2014 12 37 71 8 35 163 Exchange and other movements 3 3 1 1 4 Acquired through business combinations 347 100 82 4 533 Transfer out to trade payables 13 13 Utilised 3 1 3 1 11 19 Provided 4 2 20 4 30 Released 8 3 11 Change in discount rate 8 8 Unwinding of discount 1 1 As at 31 December 2014 372 120 87 85 32 696 Amec Foster Wheeler 140 Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Provisions continued Asbestos-related litigation Certain of the Companys subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during the 1970s or earlier.
We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and or similar suits and that new claims will be filed in the future.
Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014.
Management worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed.
Asbestos-related liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open claims.
Managements estimates were based on the following information and or assumptions: the number of open claims, the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type mesothelioma, lung cancer and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments the zero pay rate, as well as other factors.
Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred.
Asbestos-related insurance recoveries under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 2050.
Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers.
We do not recognise insurance recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings.
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet were as follows: 2014 2013 US UK Total US UK Total m m m m m m Asbestos-related provision Gross provision 446 37 483 12 12 Effect of discounting 76 76 1 Net provision 370 37 407 12 12 Insurance recoveries Gross recoveries 75 36 111 12 12 Effect of discounting 4 4 Net recoveries 71 36 107 12 12 Net asbestos-related liabilities 299 1 300 1 The net asbe stos provision is made up of 372m included in provisions and 35m in respect of asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables.
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in significant changes in the current estimates.
Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes.
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 141 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 21 Provisions continued Project litigation As described in note 26, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions by and against the Group.
Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood of success of the claim or action.
Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management considers are probable of success.
Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can be reliably estimated.
Provision is made for managements best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and of the likely settlement costs and or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely to be successful.
Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2014, there were two significant ongoing disputes.
Both of these disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were ongoing at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, in measuring Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, management established provisions in respect of these disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount of the related receivables.
Power Plant Arbitration US Foster Wheeler is involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US.
Foster Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC Longview, the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation equipment.
Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. Siemens for the supply of the turbine, electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. Kvaerner for the erection of the plant.
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview.
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview.
In December 2014, various settlement agreements were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved.
Kvaerners total claims against Foster Wheeler amount to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged delays, disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster Wheelers performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract.
Foster Wheeler has claimed approximately US$26m from Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, as well as the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures by Kvaerner.
Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler received from Kvaerner a parental guarantee securing its claims against Kvaerner.
Arbitration of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner is being conducted by the American Arbitration Association.
We intend to vigorously defend the claims against us in the arbitration and pursue our claims against Kvaerner.
Management considers that the arbitration process is likely to be concluded during 2015.
Refinery Project Arbitration India In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against Indian Oil Corporation Limited IOCL seeking collection of unpaid invoices arising from services performed on a reimbursable basis for IOCL in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India.
IOCL rejected the claims and has submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 70 billion Indian rupees for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax benefits due to delay in the execution of the project.
IOCL has also withheld payment of Foster Wheeler invoices on account of delay liquidated damages.
We strongly dispute IOCLs claims.
Any liability for delay liquidated damages is capped under the contract at a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately 12m, an amount already retained by IOCL.
Moreover, the contract also excludes liability for special damages and consequential damages, including lost profits or product, and contains an overall cap on liability for claims in the aggregate of up to a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately 29m.
An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and held a number of hearings during 2014.
A partial award was made to Foster Wheeler in March 2014, but IOCL have petitioned the court for its annulment.
We will continue to defend strenuously the claims made by IOCL and pursue the collection of unpaid invoices.
As the project is still in execution, the unpaid amount that we are seeking to collect has increased to the equivalent of approximately 54m and may increase further should IOCL continue to withhold amounts from our invoices.
Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Amec Foster Wheeler 142 Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Provisions continued Indemnities and retained obligations As described in note 26, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
As at 31 December 2014, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling 87m 2013: 71m.
Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the Built Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007.
During 2014, the Group recognised additional indemnity provisions of 20m in relation to businesses sold in previous years, which included a provision of 11m in respect of a new claim received relating to a contract completed by the Built Environment business.
Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances.
Largely as a consequence of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities.
It is likely that, as a result of the Groups current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities are or were situated.
The Group also have received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and or remediation.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group held provisions totalling 33m 2013: nil for the estimated future environmental clean-up costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates.
Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, the Group expect that certain of our remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Property-related provisions Property-related provisions comprise provisions for onerous leases, certain leases held by acquired businesses and dilapidation of leasehold buildings.
On the acquisition of a business, provisions are recognised to the extent that the terms of any property leases held by the acquired business are unfavourable relative to prevailing market terms.
During 2014, the Group recognised provisions for unfavourable leases totalling 65m on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, which are expected to be utilised by 2024.
The Group has discounted the provision using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Other provisions Other provisions include 2m 2013: 2m in respect of the Groups legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making joint ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of 28m 2013: 27m relating to the potential liabilities in the Groups captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims.
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 143 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 22 Share capital and reserves Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 99 to 101.
Share capital The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.
To the companys knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows: Number m As at 1 January 2013 307,997,570 154 Cancellation of shares acquired under the buyback programme 4,174,716 2 As at 31 December 2013 303,822,854 152 Issued during the year 85,052,989 42 As at 31 December 2014 388,875,843 194 Share buyback programme During 2013, 4m ordinary shares were purchased at an average price of 10.84 and a total cost of 45m, this completed the 400m share buyback programme.
Of the shares acquired, 34 million, including all of the share acquired in 2013 were subsequently cancelled.
Reserves As at 1 January 2014, there were 6,186,965 shared held in treasury 2013: 7,291,522, during the year 755,651 shares were transferred to share scheme participants 2013: 1,104,557 leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2014 of 5,431,314 2013: 6,186,095.
57m 2013: 62m has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge the companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Share-based payments Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria.
Grants of share options are made to participating employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of the shares at the time of offer.
In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period.
Detailed terms of this plan are included in the Directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 74.
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards are made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheelers Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheelers employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement of Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards will be equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and or affiliates, its non-employee directors, and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
As at the date of acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are equity settled and, other than in defined good leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Amec Foster Wheeler 144 Annual report and accounts 2014 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of 2014 options 2013 options pence 2014 pence 2013 Outstanding on 1 January 794 6,691,883 751 6,954,967 Lapsed cancelled 822 777,995 789 901,776 Exercised 777 765,267 644 1,127,999 Granted 874 2,563,374 866 1,766,691 Outstanding on 31 December 819 7,711,995 794 6,691,883 Exercisable on 31 December 902 200,948 760 283,867 Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year and the average share price for the year was 1,102 pence 2013: 1,070 pence.
Options outstanding on 31 December 2014 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual life Number of contractual life Number of 2014 options 2013 options years 2014 years 2013 600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 2,391,513 0.4 2,711,612 700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 683,313 800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 1.1 3,807,935 0.7 1,488,608 Over 900.00 pence 0.2 1,512,547 0.4 1,808,350 7,711,995 6,691,883 The numbers of shares held under the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan are as follows: Number of Number of shares shares 2014 2013 As at 1 January 4,194,248 3,923,198 Lapsed 1,110,559 766,743 Vested 250,328 591,863 Granted 3,883,876 1,629,656 As at 31 December 6,717,237 4,194,248 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 145 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair value of those instruments.
For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs on a weighted average basis where appropriate into those models are as follows: Foster Wheeler Savings-related Share Option Scheme Performance Share Plan Restricted Share Plan Omnibus Black-Scholes model Monte Carlo model Monte Carlo model plan 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 Weighted average fair value at measurement date 198p 217p 239p 1,006p 948p 1,053p 949p 960p 990p 1,027p Weighted average share price at measurement date 1,014p 1,061p 1,103p 1,105p 1,060p 1,139p 1,082p 1,070p 1,106p 1,081p Exercise price 874p 866p 927p n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected share price volatility 27% 27% 28% 26% 28% 29% n a n a n a n a Option life 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.1 2.8 3.0 2.7 2.7 2.7 years years years years years years years years years n a Expected dividend yield 3.5% 4.0% 3.3% n a n a n a 3.5% 3.0% 3.0% 3.5% Risk-free interest rate 1.0% 1.0% 1.0% n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Comparator share price volatility n a n a n a 32% 33% 35% n a n a n a n a Correlation between two companies in comparator group n a n a n a 50% 50% 50% n a n a n a n a The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the companys share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder return of the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share growth.
The former is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards.
On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted.
There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2014 of 28.5 pence per share, which will absorb an estimated 107m of equity.
Subject to approval, it will be paid on 2 July 2015 to shareholders on the register of members on 29 May 2015.
This dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences for the company.
This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 14.8 pence 2013: 13.5 pence: 2012: 11.7 pence per share results in a total dividend for the year of 43.3 pence per share 2013: 42.0 pence: 2012: 36.5 pence.
2014 2013 2012 m m m Dividends charged to reserves and paid Interim dividend in respect of 2013 of 13.5 pence 2013: interim dividend in respect of 2012 of 11.7 pence: 2012: interim dividend in respect of 2011 of 10.2 pence per share 40 36 34 Final dividend in respect of 2013 of 28.5 pence 2013: final dividend in respect of 2012 of 24.8 pence: 2012: final dividend in respect of 2012 of 20.3 pence per share 84 72 64 124 108 98 The amount waived by trustees of the Performance Share Plan in respect of the interim and final dividends was 1m 2013: 1m: 2012: 1m.
Amec Foster Wheeler 146 Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Analysis of net debt cash As at Exchange and As at 1 January other non-cash 31 December 2014 Acquisition Cash flow movements 2014 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 153 239 9 6 377 Bank deposits less than three months 79 29 10 118 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 232 268 1 6 495 Bank overdrafts 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 223 268 10 6 495 Bank deposits more than three months 18 3 21 Bank loans 120 39 1,102 6 1,267 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 13 4 9 Finance leases 32 4 33 61 Net debt cash as at the end of the year 121 197 1,072 49 803 As at Exchange and As at 1 January other non-cash 31 December 2013 Cash flow movements 2013 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 169 5 21 153 Bank deposits less than three months 89 11 1 79 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 258 6 20 232 Bank overdrafts 26 17 9 Cash and cash equivalents 232 11 20 223 Bank deposits more than three months 17 1 18 Bank loans 150 30 120 Net cash as at the end of the year 99 42 20 121 The fair value of bank loans is 1,268m 2013: 120m compared to a carrying value of 1,267m 2013: 120m.
The fair value of finance leases is 66m 2013: nil compared to a carrying value of 61m 2013: nil.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2014 includes 60m 2013: 25m that is held in countries from which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad.
There are restrictions on the use of 7m 2013: 7m of cash held on behalf of joint venture arrangements and 28m 2013: nil held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees.
In addition, there are restrictions on the use of a further 16m 2013: 16m of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the Groups captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 147 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 24 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions in 2014 Foster Wheeler Background On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG, the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler.
Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 95.3% of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
Foster Wheeler is a leading international engineering, construction and project management contractor and power equipment supplier with approximately 12,000 employees in more than 30 countries.
Management believes that the combination of Foster Wheeler with the Groups existing operations will complement the Groups growth strategy and low-risk, cash-generative business model and will position the Group to take advantage of, and create, new growth opportunities.
Specifically, management expects that the addition of Foster Wheeler will enable the Group to expand its operations in the mid and downstream oil and gas markets, to increase its presence in growth regions such as the Middle East and Latin America, and benefit from Foster Wheelers strong profitable power equipment business.
Under the terms of the tender offer, Foster Wheeler shareholders were offered US$16 in cash and 0.8998 ordinary shares or ADSs in the Company for each share in Foster Wheeler AG held.
Foster Wheeler shareholders were able to elect to receive either US$32 in cash or 1.7796 ordinary shares or ADSs in the Company for each share in Foster Wheeler AG held, subject to limitations on the total amount of the consideration permitted to be settled in cash or in the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs.
On completion of the offer, US$1,540m was paid in cash and 29 million ordinary shares and 56 million ADSs were issued.
Cash consideration was financed by a combination of the Groups existing cash resources and by drawing on new debt financing facilities.
Whilst the tender offer did not extend to employee-held options and awards over shares in Foster Wheeler AG, separate arrangements were made whereby certain of these options and awards were replaced by options and awards over ordinary shares or ADSs in the Company.
Purchase price allocation Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to 1,915m measured at fair value at the acquisition date, of which 979m was settled in cash, 919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and 17m was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards.
Due to the relatively short period of time that has elapsed since the acquisition date, management has not yet finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of certain of Foster Wheelers property, plant and equipment, equity-accounted investments, and property-related, legal and environmental obligations.
Management expects to substantially complete the fair value assessment during the first half of 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill of 1,583m was recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Management considers that the goodwill is attributable to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster Wheelers highly skilled, customer-oriented and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are expected to result from the integration of Foster Wheeler with the Groups existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling 37m were recognised within administrative expenses during 2014.
Costs of issuing the Companys ordinary shares and ADSs in relation to the acquisition amounting to 877m were set against the Companys share premium account.
On 19 January 2015, the Group acquired the 4.7% non-controlling interest in Foster Wheeler by way of a squeeze-out merger under Swiss law for consideration of 85m, of which 51m was paid in cash and 34m was settled by the issue of 5 million of the Companys ADSs.
Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Subsequent to its acquisition, Foster Wheeler contributed 274m to the Groups revenue and 1m to the Groups trading profit.
After amortisation of the acquired intangibles, exceptional items and asbestos related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss of 44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler 148 Annual report and accounts 2014 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Summary of financial effect Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: m Assets acquired Property, plant and equipment 117 Identifiable intangible assets 738 Interests in joint ventures 73 Current tax asset 11 Deferred tax assets 27 Inventories 11 Trade and other receivables 771 Gross contractual amounts receivable 801 Allowance for doubtful debts 30 Derivative financial instruments 12 Cash and cash equivalents 265 Liabilities assumed Bank loans 39 Finance lease obligations 32 Trade and other payables 772 Current tax liability 53 Net retirement benefit liabilities 72 Deferred tax liabilities 138 Provisions 533 Net identifiable assets acquired 362 Non-controlling interests 30 Goodwill 1,583 1,915 Consideration Share based payments 17 Cash paid on completion 979 Shares issued including share premium 919 1,915 Management estimates that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Groups revenue for the year would have been 1,814m higher than reported at 5,807m.
Management is, however, unable to estimate reliably what the Groups profit or loss for the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant purchase accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its acquisition date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Scopus On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group Holdings Limited Scopus for 68m with 67m paid on completion and 1m deferred for one year.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
Due to the relative short period of time that has elapsed since the acquisition date, management has not yet finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of 15 December 2014.
Management expects to complete the fair value assessment during the first half of 2015.
As at 31 December 2014, provisional goodwill of 34m was recognised on the acquisition which management considers is principally attributable to its skilled workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date of acquisition.
This specialist expertise will complement Amec Foster Wheelers existing project delivery capability across the lifecycle of a project.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 149 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Summary of financial effect Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: m Identifiable intangible assets 31 Property, plant and equipment 1 Trade and other receivables 7 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Trade and other payables 2 Deferred tax liability 6 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 34 Goodwill on acquisition 34 68 Consideration Cash paid on completion 67 deferred 1 68 Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Groups results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been acquired on 1 January 2014.
Acquisitions in 2013 Automated Engineering Services Corp. On 15 November 2013, the Group acquired all of the shares in Automated Engineering Services Corp. AES for up to US$35m, of which US$29m 18m was paid on completion and up to $6m 4m will be paid after three years dependent on the achievement of certain performance targets.
AES is a professional design engineering nuclear services firm based in Naperville, Illinois, US.
It provides plant design modification engineering, engineering analysis, safety, licensing and regulatory services, and engineering programme support to existing nuclear utilities, primarily in the US.
We acquired AES to build on the Groups position in the nuclear industry in the US, allowing us to better serve our clients and providing a strong platform from which to achieve further growth in nuclear services.
Goodwill of 12m was recognised on the acquisition of AES.
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: m Intangible assets 6 Trade and other receivables 6 Trade and other payables 2 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 10 Goodwill 12 Consideration 22 Amec Foster Wheeler 150 Annual report and accounts 2014 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2012 Unidel On 30 May 2012, the Group acquired all of the shares in Unidel Group Pty Limited Unidel for 16m in cash.
Unidel operates in Australias energy, resources and infrastructure sectors and provides a range of environmental and infrastructure services.
Unidel has experience of projects involving gas field exploration, development, production and transmission, coal seam methane and water pipelines.
We acquired Unidel to build to expand the Groups capabilities to allow us to better serve customers in the oil & gas, mining, and clean energy markets in one of the key growth regions.
Goodwill of 5m was recognised on the acquisition of Unidel.
Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants On 29 June 2012, the Group acquired all of the shares in Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants UK Limited ESRC for 137m in cash.
ESRC was Serco Group plcs nuclear technical services business.
It is based at a number of sites in the UK and provides consultancy and project solutions for customers including the UK Ministry of Defence, EDF, Magnox and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.
We acquired ESRC to build the Groups footprint and capabilities in the clean energy market.
ESRCs team of highly skilled professionals will complement the Groups existing expertise in nuclear support activities.
Goodwill of 75m was recognised on the acquisition which was attributed to the value of ESRCs assembled workforce and the significant growth opportunities for the combined business.
Other acquisitions During 2012, other acquisitions were made for total consideration of 8m, of which 6m was paid on completion and the balance of 2m will be paid dependent on the achievement of earnings targets.
Goodwill of 6m was recognised on these acquisitions.
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: ESRC Unidel Other Total m m m m Property, plant and equipment 1 1 Intangible assets 74 11 6 91 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 2 Trade and other receivables 13 7 2 22 Trade and other payables 7 5 2 14 Deferred tax liabilities 20 3 2 25 Net identifiable assets acquired 62 11 4 77 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Goodwill 75 5 6 86 Consideration 137 16 8 161 Net cash outflow on acquisitions The net cash out flow on acquisitions was as follows: 2014 2013 2012 m m m 1 Cash consideration paid Current year acquisitions 1,049 18 159 Acquisitions in prior years 2 2 1,049 20 161 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 268 2 Net cash outflow 781 20 159 1 The 1, 049m includes 3m exchange loss for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This was created due to the movement in exchange rates between the date the Group acquired Foster Wheeler AG and the date when the liability was settled, net of cash flow hedges.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 151 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 25 Commitments Operating lease commitments The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m In one year or less 99 66 Between one and five years 249 157 Over five years 124 61 472 284 Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires: leases for motor vehicles and office equipment with lease periods of two to five years: and longer-term property leases.
None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases for software.
These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: 2014 2013 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m In one year or less 12 9 Between one and five years 47 35 Over five years 20 17 Total minimum lease payments 79 61 Less amounts representing finance charges 18 Present value of minimum lease payments 61 61 Amec Foster Wheeler 152 Annual report and accounts 2014 26 Contingent liabilities Legal claims and actions From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred in excess of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments.
As described in note 21, we have recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against the Group.
We do not expect known and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees and indemnities Guarantees The Group have guaranteed certain performance obligations in a refinery electric power generation plant located in China in which we hold a non-controlling interest.
Borrowings of joint ventures are generally without recourse to the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Indemnities and retained obligations We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the Group prior to the sale of such businesses and or asset.
As described in note 21, we have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim.
We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Mount Polley The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, and is located near the town of Lively, British Columbia, Canada.
On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment.
The dam was in the process of being raised at the time of the failure.
One of our subsidiaries, along with other parties, had various design and quality assurance responsibilities associated with the expansion of this facility.
Our subsidiary was the engineer at the time of the breach, but did not perform the original design.
An Independent Review Panel issued its report on 30 January 2015 concluding that the cause of failure was shearing along a zone containing a weak soil layer along with other contributory factors.
At this time, no litigation has commenced against the Group and managements opinion is that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with the standard of care for a competent engineer on a project of this nature.
Management has taken external legal advice and in light of this advice and, given the early stages of this matter, it is not considered probable that there will be an outflow in respect of this issue.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 153 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27 Related party transactions During 2014 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary companies.
Transactions with the senior management group Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in late 2014, the senior management group now consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the Americas, Europe and Growth Regions geographies along with the presidents of the Foster Wheeler segments of E&C Services and Global Power Group.
In 2013 the senior management group consisted of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the Americas, Europe and Growth Regions geographies.
The senior management group and relatives controlled 0.64% of the voting rights of the company as at 31 December 2014.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and they receive share awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf of certain executive directors.
Details of their compensation are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 6 Pension costs Equity-settled share-based payments 1 3 6 9 Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows: Value of transactions Outstanding balance in the year as at 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Services received 3 Services rendered 26 38 12 15 Provision of finance 9 8 16 41 In September 2012, the UK governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit.
An additional audit exemption has been introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt from annual audit if certain conditions are met.
The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiarys shareholders to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the subsidiarys outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
Amec Foster Wheeler 154 Annual report and accounts 2014 27 Related party transactions continued Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures continued The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2014 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts: Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited Registered number: 6205760.
AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited Registered number: 07870120.
AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited Registered number: 4530056.
Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited Registered number: 1580678.
AMEC USA Finance Limited Registered number: 5299446.
AMEC USA Holdings Limited Registered number: 4041261.
AMEC USA Limited Registered number: 4044800.
PI Energy & Emissions Limited Registered number: SC209704.
Sandiway Solutions No 3 Limited Registered number: 5318249.
Sigma Financial Facilities Limited Registered number: 3863449.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2014 155 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
