Information for shareholders Registrars Our website Our website, amecfw.
com, is the best source of useful, The Companys registrars are Capita Asset Services.
They maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and handle up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other all administration related to it.
They should be your first port of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email For DRIP, electronic communications and general enquiries alerts of such announcements.
co. uk Information made available on our website, or other websites Website www.
com mentioned in this annual report, are not, and should not be Postal address Capita Asset Services considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual The Registry report or our annual report on Form 20-F. 34 Beckenham Road Financial calendar Beckenham We published the Groups full-year 2014 results and the Kent BR3 4TU 2014 annual report later than usual as a consequence of the United Kingdom acquisition of Foster Wheeler having completed so close to the 1 2 Telephone UK 0871 664 0300 Groups year-end date.
Management expects to move towards Others 44 20 8639 3399 the Groups normal financial calendar during 2015 as follows: Payment of dividends overseas 1 Telephone 44 20 8639 3405 1 Annual General Meeting 14 May 2015 Email ips@capita.
co. uk 2 Payment of final dividend for 2014 2 July 2015 1 Line s open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday Half-year 2015 results issued 27 August 2015 excluding public holidays.
2 Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras.
Payment of interim dividend for 2015 January 2016 Electronic shareholder communication Full-year 2015 results issued 10 March 2016 The majority of our shareholders now receive information from 3 2015 annual report published March 2016 us electronically.
If you have elected to do so and have provided an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever 1 Information on the Companys AGM is provided in the Directors report.
any new shareholder information is published.
If you have not 2 Subject to approval by shareholders.
provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes 3 O ur annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic details of where the information can be found on our website.
results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. You can register for electronic shareholder communication Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates and also manage your personal shareholding online at of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses www.
You will need your Investor Code and can be found on our website.
IVC which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
Share price The latest price of the Companys shares can be found on Printed copies of the annual report our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Companys Exchanges website, www.
com in both latest annual report on request by writing to our registered cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay.
office or by filling in the form on our website.
Dividends Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with our Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any half-year results in August and it is paid in the following January.
unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly We propose our final dividend for the year with the full-year profitable investment opportunities.
Typically these investments results and, subject to shareholder approval at the subsequent turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist.
Such AGM, it is paid in the following July.
approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building society account and can also be paid in local currency in If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy certain overseas territories.
Shareholders should contact the shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend Companys registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
that you obtain the name of the person and organisation that has contacted you and check whether they are properly We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more of authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its the Companys shares rather than receive cash dividends.
The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries.
You can find out more on our website or by contacting the If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised Companys registrars.
organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer helpline on 44 0 800 111 6768 or email consumer.
Amec Foster Wheeler 176 Annual report and accounts 2014
