com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation In this section...
This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, and whether they are effective in 2014 or later years.
We explain how these changes are expected to impact the financial position and performance of the Group.
The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Group and include the Groups interests in associates and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company is domiciled in the Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern United Kingdom.
basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and Groups accounts have been prepared in accordance with special purpose entities International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly the EU IFRS, and approved by the Directors.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of The financial statements are principally prepared on the the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In basis of historical cost.
Where other bases are applied these assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently are identified in the relevant accounting policy.
exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the Group financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Going concern Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic As at the year end the Group was in a positive net cash activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts for position, and its continued generation of significant free its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Under cash flows has enabled further acquisitions and the payment the equity method the investment in the entity is stated as of a special dividend.
The Group has also sought to gain one line item at cost plus the investors share of retained further efficiencies in the balance sheet by repurchasing post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
debt where it is economically beneficial to do so, and has An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint established flexible financing through new, longer term venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
revolving credit facility arrangements see section 4 for Significant influence is the power to participate in, but details on capital structure and financing.
not control or jointly control, the financial and operating The Group continues to review forecasts of the television decisions of an entity.
These investments are also accounted advertising market to determine the impact on ITVs for using the equity method.
The Groups forecasts and projections, For investments where the Group has concluded it does not taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading have significant influence, then the asset is held at cost in performance, show that the Group will be able to operate non-current assets.
within the level of its current funding.
The Group also continues to focus on development of the non-advertising business, and evaluates the impact of further investment in acquisitions against the strategy and cash headroom of the business.
