ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued viii Contingent liabilities x Related party transactions Under a Group registration, the Company is jointly and Transactions with key management personnel severally liable for VAT at 31 December 2014 of 58 Key management consists of ITV plc Executive Directors.
The Company has Key management personnel compensation, on an guaranteed certain finance and operating lease obligations accounting basis, is as follows: of subsidiary undertakings.
2014 2013 m m There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation Short-term employee benefits 3 3 and guarantees, broadcasting issues, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of Share-based compensation 2 2 businesses.
None of these items are expected to have a 5 5 material effect on the Groups results or financial position.
Total emoluments and gains on share options received by Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to key management personnel in the year were: guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, 2014 2013 the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and m m accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats Emoluments 3 3 the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as Gains on exercise of share options 2 7 it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make Gains on release of restricted share a payment under the guarantee.
awards 3 8 10 ix Capital and other commitments There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2014 2013: none.
xi Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2014, all of which are wholly owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning of television programmes ITV Rights Limited Rights ownership ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile ITV Consumer Limited services SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes 1 ITV Studios, Inc. Production of television programmes ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group Carlton Communications Limited Holding company 1,2 Leftfield Entertainment, Inc. Production of television programmes 1.
Incorporated and registered in the USA.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
