ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Performance and Financials Key Performance Indicators We have defined our KPIs to align EBITA before Adjusted EPS our performance and accountability exceptional items to our strategy.
These KPIs are the key measures of success and cover all three strategic priorities.
Following the renewal of Related Priority Related Priority our strategic priorities our KPIs remain unchanged.
2 3 2 3 Definition Definition This is the key profitability measure Adjusted EPS represents the adjusted used across the whole business.
profit for the year attributable to Earnings before interest, tax and equity shareholders.
Adjusted profit amortisation before exceptional is defined as profit for the year items EBITA reflects our attributable to equity shareholders Our Strategic Priorities performance in a consistent manner before exceptional items, impairment and in line with how the business is of intangible assets, amortisation of managed and measured on a dayintangible assets acquired through Maximise audience and to-day basis.
business combinations, net financing revenue share from cost adjustments and other tax free-to-air broadcast Performance adjustments.
and VOD business In 2014 EBITA increased by 110 It reflects the business performance million or 18%.
This increase was a of the Group in a consistent manner result of the 8% increase in Group Grow international 2 and in line with how the business is external revenue which was driven content business managed and measured on a dayby a 6% increase in net advertising to-day basis.
revenue, a 30% increase in Online, Pay & Interactive revenue and a 34% Performance increase in US productions within Build a global pay and Adjusted EPS increased by 23% 3 ITV Studios.
We continued to retain distribution business or 2.6p to 13.8p.
This reflects tight control over our cost base, the increase in EBITA before delivering a further 15 million of exceptionals of 18%, and a reduction cost savings in 2014. in adjusted financing costs.
