com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation In this section...
This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, and whether they are effective in 2014 or later years.
We explain how these changes are expected to impact the financial position and performance of the Group.
The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Group and include the Groups interests in associates and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Company is domiciled in the Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern United Kingdom.
basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and Groups accounts have been prepared in accordance with special purpose entities International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly the EU IFRS, and approved by the Directors.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of The financial statements are principally prepared on the the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In basis of historical cost.
Where other bases are applied these assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently are identified in the relevant accounting policy.
exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which the Group financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Going concern Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic As at the year end the Group was in a positive net cash activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts for position, and its continued generation of significant free its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Under cash flows has enabled further acquisitions and the payment the equity method the investment in the entity is stated as of a special dividend.
The Group has also sought to gain one line item at cost plus the investors share of retained further efficiencies in the balance sheet by repurchasing post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
debt where it is economically beneficial to do so, and has An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint established flexible financing through new, longer term venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
revolving credit facility arrangements see section 4 for Significant influence is the power to participate in, but details on capital structure and financing.
not control or jointly control, the financial and operating The Group continues to review forecasts of the television decisions of an entity.
These investments are also accounted advertising market to determine the impact on ITVs for using the equity method.
The Groups forecasts and projections, For investments where the Group has concluded it does not taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading have significant influence, then the asset is held at cost in performance, show that the Group will be able to operate non-current assets.
within the level of its current funding.
The Group also continues to focus on development of the non-advertising business, and evaluates the impact of further investment in acquisitions against the strategy and cash headroom of the business.
113 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued A special purpose entity SPE is a legal entity which Classification of financial instruments the Group may establish to fulfil a specific trading The financial assets and liabilities of the Group are and investment purpose.
Judgement is required when classified into the following financial statement captions determining if an SPE should be consolidated and involves in the statement of financial position in accordance with the evaluation of the substance of its relationships with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the Group and the SPEs risks and rewards.
Those SPEs Loans and receivables separately disclosed as cash and controlled by the Group are established under terms that cash equivalents excluding gilts over which unfunded impose strict limitations on the decision-making powers of pension commitments have a charge and trade and their management and that result in the Group receiving the other receivables: majority of the benefits related to their operations and net assets, being exposed to the majority of risks incidental to Available for sale financial assets measured at fair value their activities and receiving the majority of the residual or through other comprehensive income.
Includes gilts over ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
which unfunded pension commitments have a charge: Financial assets liabilities at fair value through profit SPEs are used in limited circumstances by the Group.
The or loss separately disclosed as derivative financial only significant SPEs are the pension funding partnerships instruments in assets liabilities and included in nonthat were established in 2010 and March 2014 between the current other payables contingent consideration : and Group and the Trustee of the ITV Pension Scheme as a way of establishing payment streams to the pension scheme.
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost The partnerships, both Scottish Limited Partnerships, are separately disclosed as borrowings and trade and other controlled and consolidated by the Group.
Current non-current distinction Judgement is required when determining the appropriate Current assets include assets held primarily for trading classification of the Groups financial instruments.
Details purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected on the accounting policies for measurement of the above to be realised in, or intended for sale or use in, the course of instruments are set out in the relevant note.
All other assets are classified as Recognition and derecognition of financial assets non-current assets.
and liabilities Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of becomes a party to the contract.
Financial instruments are the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within no longer recognised in the statement of financial position one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are when the contractual cash flows expire or when the Group classified as non-current liabilities.
no longer retains control of substantially all the risks and rewards under the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits with a maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet certain finance lease commitments and gilts in respect of which a charging deed was executed on the unfunded pension commitments of four former Granada executives.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents is considered to approximate fair value.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Foreign currencies Accounting judgements and estimates The primary economic environment in which the Group The preparation of financial statements requires operates is the UK and therefore the consolidated financial management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups statements are presented in pounds sterling.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, Where Group companies based in the UK transact in liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ foreign currencies, these transactions are translated into from these estimates.
pounds sterling at the exchange rate on the transaction date.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an translated into pounds sterling at the year end exchange ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in rate.
Where there is a movement in the exchange rate which the estimates are revised and in any future periods between the date of the transaction and the year end, affected.
a foreign exchange gain or loss is recognised in the income The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or statement.
complexity are set out below and in more detail in the Hedge accounting is implemented on certain foreign related notes: currency firm commitments, which allows for the effective Revenue recognition note 2.1 portion of any foreign exchange gains or losses to be Classification of financial instruments included in recognised in other comprehensive income note 4.3. this note Where a forward currency contract is used to manage foreign exchange risk and hedge accounting is not Business combinations note 3.3 and note 3.4 applied, any movement in currency is taken to the The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and income statement.
assumptions that are significant to the financial statements are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into pounds sterling at the exchange Defined benefit pension schemes, including the related rate on the date of the transaction.
longevity swap note 3.7 The assets and liabilities of Group companies outside of Taxation note 2.3 the UK are translated into pounds sterling at the year Provisions note 3.6 end exchange rate.
The revenue and expenses of these companies are translated into pounds sterling at the Business combinations note 3.4 average monthly exchange rate during the year.
Where Impairment of assets note 3.2 and note 3.3 differences arise between these rates, they are recognised in the translation reserve within other comprehensive Financial instruments note 4.1 income.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates are recognised in the translation reserve within other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a subsidiary outside the UK or an interest in a joint venture or an associate, the related translation reserve is released to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
115 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 1: Basis of Preparation continued New or amended EU endorsed accounting standards The table below represents new or amended EU endorsed accounting standards relevant to the Groups results that are effective in 2014: Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IAS 32 Financial The amendments clarify the offsetting criteria, such The amendments have not had any impact Instruments as when an entity has a legal right to offset and on the net asset position of the Group.
when gross settlement is equivalent to net settlement.
IAS 36 Impairment The amendments modify some of the disclosure The amendments have not had any impact of Assets requirements regarding measurement of the on the assets currently held by the Group.
recoverable amount of impaired assets.
IAS 39 Financial The amendments remove the need to discontinue The amendments have not had any impact Instruments: hedge accounting if a hedging derivative is novated, on the hedging contracts held by the Group Recognition and provided certain criteria are met.
Measurement IFRS 10 IFRS 10 replaces a portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and A review of the Groups investments was carried Separate Financial Statements that addresses the out in the context of IFRS 1012 in order to accounting for consolidated financial statements.
ensure that their classification and accounting It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 treatment remains appropriate.
There is Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
no impact on the accounting treatment of investments currently held within the Group IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that and appropriate disclosures have been made in applies to all entities including special purpose notes 3.4 and 3.5 to the financial statements.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
IFRS 11 IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly Controlled Entities Non-Monetary Contributions by Venturers.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
The Directors also considered the impact on the Group of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
There are none that are effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 that are expected to have a significant impact on the Groups results.
