ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities In this section...
This section shows the assets used to generate the Groups trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result.
Liabilities relating to the Groups financing activities are addressed in Section 4.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in note 2.3.
On the following pages there are notes covering working capital, non-current assets and liabilities, acquisitions and disposals, provisions and pensions.
The net book value of distribution rights at the year are as 3.1 Working capital follows: 2014 2013 m m Keeping it simple... Distribution rights 13 10 Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activity.
The The movement during the year comprises additions of 21 Group therefore defines working capital as distribution million 2013: 16 million and amounts charged to the rights, programme rights and production costs, trade income statement of 18 million 2013: 23 million.
and other receivables and trade and other payables.
2 Programme rights and other inventory Careful management of working capital ensures Accounting policies that the Group can meet its trading and financing Rights are recognised when the Group controls the obligations within its ordinary operating cycle.
respective rights and the risks and rewards associated Working capital is a driver of the profit to cash with them.
conversion, a key performance indicator for the Group.
Programme rights and production costs not yet written off The Groups target profit to cash ratio on a rolling are included in the statement of financial position at the three year basis is at least 90%.
lower of cost and net realisable value.
In the following section you will find further Broadcast programme rights information regarding working capital management Acquired programme rights which include films, and and analysis of the elements of working capital.
sports rights, are purchased for the primary purpose of broadcasting on the ITV network.
1 Distribution rights within current assets as payments are made or when the Accounting policies rights are ready for broadcast.
The Group generally expenses Distribution rights are programme rights the Group buys these rights through operating costs over a number of from producers to derive future revenue, principally through transmissions reflecting the pattern and value in which the licensing to broadcasters.
These are classified as non-current right is consumed.
assets as these rights are used to derive long-term economic Commissions, which primarily comprise programmes benefit for the Group.
purchased based on editorial specification and over which Distribution rights are recognised initially at cost and the Group has some control, are recognised in current charged through operating costs in the income statement assets as payments are made and are generally expensed over a maximum five-year period that is dependent on to operating costs in full on first transmission.
Where a either cumulative sales and programme genre, or based on commission is repeated, incremental costs are included in forecast future sales.
Advances paid for the acquisition of operating costs distribution rights are disclosed as distribution rights as soon Where a repeat of a programme is broadcast, the Group as they are contracted.
These advances are not expensed recognises the incremental costs associated with the until the programme is available for distribution.
Up to that broadcast in operating costs.
point they are assessed annually for impairment through the reassessment of the future sales expected to be earned from that title.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements In assessing net realisable value for acquired and 3.1.
4 Trade and other receivables commissioned rights, the net realisable value assessment is Accounting policies based on estimated airtime value, with consideration given Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of to whether the number of transmissions purchased can be the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the efficiently played out over the licence period.
amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Where payments are not due for more than one year, they are Studios production costs shown in the financial statements at their net present value Production inventory comprises the costs incurred by ITV to reflect the economic cost of delayed payment.
The Group Studios in producing a programme, where the programme provides goods and services to substantially all its customers is part way through the production process and not yet on credit terms.
available for delivery to a broadcaster.
They are recognised within current assets at production cost as incurred and are Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables recognised in operating costs on delivery of episodes.
that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected.
These estimates include such factors as historical Also included here are dramas that have been commissioned experience, the current state of the UK and overseas straight to series.
Although more expensive than producing economies and industry specific factors.
A provision for a pilot, this method attracts high profile talent to the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is production and raises the profile of the series to support its sufficient evidence that the Group will not be able to collect distribution.
The production cost is partly funded by network all amounts due.
pre-sales, while the remainder, the deficit, is carried internally and covered by future sales.
The carrying value of trade receivables is considered to approximate fair value.
In assessing net realisable value for programmes in production, judgement is required when considering the Trade and other receivables can be analysed as follows: contracted sales price and estimated costs to complete.
2014 2013 m m The programme rights and other inventory at the year end Due within one year: are shown in the table below: Trade receivables 271 295 2014 2013 Other receivables 27 40 m m Prepayments and accrued Acquired programme rights 101 110 income 87 53 Commissions 57 46 385 388 Sports rights 40 57 Due after more than one year: Production costs 169 109 Trade receivables 7 11 367 322 Other receivables 17 3 Total trade and other receivables 409 402 Programme rights and other inventory written down in the year were 1 million 2013: 1 million.
3 Programme commitments These are operating commitments in respect of programming entered into in the ordinary course of business with programme suppliers, sports organisations and film distributors in respect of rights to broadcast on the ITV network.
Commitments in respect of these purchases, which are not reflected in the statement of financial position, are due for payment as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 464 444 Later than one year and not more than five years 462 431 More than five years 58 3 984 878 127 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Other receivables due after more than one year include 3.1.
6 Trade payables due after more than one year 11 million 2013: nil relating to 2014 acquisitions see note Trade payables due after more than one year can be 3.4 for details.
analysed as follows: 2014 2013 278 million 2013: 306 million of total trade receivables m m that are not impaired are aged as follows: Trade payables 27 42 2014 2013 m m This primarily relates to film creditors for which payment is Current 263 296 due after more than one year.
7 Working capital management Between 30 and 90 days overdue 4 2 Cash and working capital management continues to be a Over 90 days overdue 4 key focus.
During the year the cash outflow from working 278 306 capital was 69 million 2013: outflow of 15 million derived as follows: The balance above is stated net of a provision of 7 million 2013: 7 million for impairment of trade receivables.
Of 2014 2013 m m the provision total, 3 million relates to balances overdue by Increase in programme rights and more than 90 days 2013: 3 million and 4 million relates other inventory and distribution to current balances 2013: 4 million.
rights 39 42 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade Decrease increase in receivables 18 15 receivables can be shown as follows: Decrease increase in payables 48 42 2014 2013 Working capital outflow 69 15 m m At 1 January 7 7 The working capital outflow for the year excludes the impact Charged during the year 2 1 of balances acquired on the purchase of new subsidiaries Receivables written off during the see note 3.4. year as uncollectable utilisation of The outflow is largely driven by the increase in production provision 1 inventory as a result of increased investment in scripted Unused amounts reversed 2 content, predominantly in the US.
At 31 December 7 7 Read more on our investment in scripted content in the Financial 3.1.
5 Trade and other payables due within one year and Performance Review on pages 42 and 43.
Accounting policies Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
The carrying value of trade payables is considered to approximate fair value.
Trade and other payables due within one year can be analysed as follows: 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 49 43 VAT and social security 68 67 Other payables 159 156 Accruals and deferred income 423 436 699 702 128 slugline Financial Statements ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Determining whether a lease is a finance lease requires 3.2 Property, plant and equipment judgement as to whether substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership have been transferred to the Group.
Estimates used by management in making this assessment Keeping it simple... include the useful economic life of assets, the fair value The following section shows the physical assets used of the asset and the discount rate applied to the total by the Group to operate the business, generating payments required under the lease.
Assets held under such revenues and profits.
These assets include office leases are included within property, plant and equipment buildings and studios, as well as equipment used in and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated broadcast transmission, programme production and useful lives.
Outstanding finance lease obligations, which comprise The cost of these assets is the amount initially paid the principal plus accrued interest, are included within for them.
A depreciation expense is charged to the borrowings.
The finance element of the agreements is income statement to reflect annual wear and tear and charged to the income statement over the term of the lease the reduced value of the asset over time.
Depreciation on an effective interest basis.
is calculated by estimating the number of years the Group expects the asset to be used useful economic All other leases are operating leases, the rentals on which life.
If there has been a technological change or are charged to the income statement on a straight-line decline in business performance the Directors review basis over the lease term see note 2.1 for further details the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen of operating lease commitments.
If an assets value falls Depreciation below its depreciated value an additional one-off Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, impairment charge is made against profit.
plant and equipment less estimated residual value, on a This section also explains the accounting policies straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The followed by ITV and the specific estimates made in annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated arriving at the net book value of these assets.
useful life of each asset and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: Accounting policies Property, plant and equipment Asset class Depreciation policy Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Freehold land not depreciated accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain Freehold buildings up to 60 years items of property, plant and equipment that were revalued Leasehold improvements shorter of residual lease to fair value prior to 1 January 2004 the date of transition term or estimated useful life to IFRS are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being 1 Vehicles, equipment and fittings 3 to 20 years the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of 1.
Equipment includes studio production and technology assets.
Impairment of assets Leases Property, plant and equipment that is subject to Finance leases are those which transfer substantially all the depreciation is reviewed for impairment whenever events risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Certain service or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying contracts involve the use of specific assets e. g. transmission amount may not be recoverable.
Indicators of impairment or studio equipment and therefore contain an embedded may include changes in technology and business lease.
129 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment can be analysed as follows: Freehold land Improvements to leasehold Vehicles, equipment and buildings land and buildings and fittings Total Long Short Owned Finance leases m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 14 76 16 203 16 325 Additions 58 24 1 23 106 Reclassification of acquired property 32 32 Reclassification from assets held for sale 33 1 8 42 Disposals and retirements 13 13 At 31 December 2013 137 69 17 221 16 460 Additions 26 26 Reclassification of property fittings 2 2 Disposals and retirements 17 12 29 At 31 December 2014 120 67 17 237 16 457 Depreciation At 1 January 2013 3 16 15 121 14 169 Charge for the year 1 1 22 24 Reclassification of acquired property 7 7 Reclassification from assets held for sale 12 1 8 21 Disposals and retirements 13 13 At 31 December 2013 23 11 15 138 14 201 Charge for the year 1 2 24 27 Disposals and retirements 7 12 19 At 31 December 2014 17 13 15 150 14 209 Net book value At 31 December 2014 103 54 2 87 2 248 At 31 December 2013 114 58 2 83 2 259 There are additions of 5 million in 2014 relating to Capital commitments acquisitions made in the year 2013: nil.
There are 2 million of capital commitments at 31 December 2014 2013: 3 million.
Included within property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction of 10 million 2013: 66 million.
In 2013 this included construction costs in relation to the new Coronation Street set, which was completed in early 2014.
During the year, the Group sold a freehold property in Cardiff for proceeds of 15 million, representing a gain on sale of 5 million.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Accounting policies 3.3 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from assets that are not capable of being individually Keeping it simple... identified and separately recognised.
The goodwill The following section shows the non-physical assets recognised by the Group has all arisen as a result of business used by the Group to generate revenue and profits.
Goodwill is stated at its recoverable amount These assets include brands, customer contracts and being cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is relationships, contractual arrangements, licences, allocated to the business to which it relates.
software development, film libraries and goodwill.
Due to changes in accounting standards goodwill has been The cost of these assets is the amount that the calculated using three different methods depending on the Group has paid or, where there has been a business date the relevant business was purchased.
combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise Method 1: All business combinations that have occurred from legal rights.
In the case of goodwill, its cost is the since 1 January 2009 were accounted for using the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over acquisition method.
Under this method, goodwill is and above the fair value of the individual assets and measured as the fair value of the consideration transferred liabilities acquired.
The value of goodwill is intangible including the recognition of any part of the business not value that comes from, for example, a uniquely strong yet owned non-controlling interests, less the fair value market position and the outstanding productivity of of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, its employees.
all measured at the acquisition date.
Any contingent consideration expected to be transferred in the future The value of intangible assets, with the exception of will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and goodwill, reduces over the number of years the Group recognised within Other payables.
Contingent consideration expects to use the asset, the useful economic life, classified as an asset or liability that is a financial instrument via an annual amortisation charge to the income is measured at fair value with changes in fair value statement.
Where there has been a technological recognised in the income statement.
The determination change or decline in business performance the of fair value is based on discounted cash flows.
The key Directors review the value of assets, including assumptions take into consideration the probability of goodwill, to ensure they have not fallen below their meeting each performance target and the discount rate.
Should an assets value fall below its amortised value an additional one-off impairment Where less than 100% of a subsidiary is acquired, and call charge is made against profit.
and put options are granted over the remaining interest, a non-controlling interest is initially recognised in equity at This section explains the accounting policies applied fair value, which is established based on the value of the put and the specific judgements and estimates made by option.
A call option is recognised as a derivative financial the Directors in arriving at the net book value of these instrument, carried at fair value.
The put option is recognised assets.
as a liability within Other payables, carried at the present value of the put option exercise price, and a corresponding charge is included in Merger and Other Reserves.
Any subsequent remeasurement of the call option and the put option liability is recognised within finance income or cost.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair value of net assets acquired can only be made within 12 months of the acquisition date, and only if fair values were determined provisionally at an earlier reporting date.
These adjustments are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
131 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for Other intangible assets as transactions with owners and therefore no goodwill is Intangible assets other than goodwill are those which are recognised as a result of such transactions.
Transaction costs identifiable and can be sold separately or which arise from incurred in connection with those business combinations, legal rights.
such as legal fees, due diligence fees and other professional Within ITV there are two types of intangible assets: those fees, are expensed as incurred.
acquired and those that have been internally generated Method 2: All business combinations that occurred between such as software licences and development.
1 January 2004 and 31 December 2008 were accounted Intangible assets acquired directly by the Group are stated for using the purchase method in accordance with IFRS at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Goodwill on those identified intangible assets acquired as part of a business combinations represents the difference between the cost combination are shown at fair value at the date of of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable net acquisition less accumulated amortisation.
assets acquired and did not include the value of the nonThe main intangible assets the Group has valued are brands, controlling interest.
Transaction costs incurred in connection licences, contractual arrangements, customer contracts and with those business combinations, such as legal fees, due relationships and libraries.
diligence fees and other professional fees, were included in the cost of acquisition.
Each class of intangible assets valuation method on initial recognition, amortisation method and estimated useful life Method 3: For business combinations prior to 1 January is set out in the table below: 2004, goodwill is included at its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP at that time less accumulated amortisation up to 31 December 2003.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations occurring prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has not been reconsidered as permitted under IFRS 1.
Class of intangible asset Valuation method Amortisation method Estimated useful life Brands Applying a royalty rate to the expected future revenue Straight-line up to 14 years over the life of the brand.
Customer contracts Expected future cash flows from those contracts and Straight-line up to 6 years for and relationships relationships existing at the date of acquisition are or reducing balance customer contracts estimated.
If applicable, a contributory charge is as appropriate deducted for the use of other assets needed to exploit 5 to 10 years the cash flow.
The net cash flow is then discounted back for customer to present value.
relationships Contractual Expected future cash flows from those contracts existing Straight-line up to 10 years arrangements at the date of acquisition are estimated.
If applicable, depending on the a contributory charge is deducted for the use of other contract terms assets needed to exploit the cash flow.
The net cash flow is then discounted back to present value.
Licences Start-up basis of expected future cash flows existing at Straight-line 11 to 17 years the date of acquisition.
If applicable, a contributory depending on term charge is deducted for the use of other assets needed of licence to exploit the cash flow.
Libraries and other Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less Sum of digits or up to 20 years accumulated amortisation.
straight line as appropriate Software licences Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less Straight-line 1 to 5 years and development accumulated amortisation.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Determining the fair value of intangible assets arising An impairment test is performed by assessing the on acquisition requires judgement.
The Directors make recoverable amount of each asset, or for goodwill, the cashestimates regarding the timing and amount of future cash generating unit or group of cash-generating units related flows derived from exploiting the assets being acquired.
Total assets which includes goodwill are The Directors then estimate an appropriate discount rate grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately to apply to the forecast cash flows.
Such estimates are identifiable cash flows cash-generating unit or CGU.
based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value an appropriate period taking into account growth rates, less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use is based operating costs and the expected useful lives of assets.
on the present value of the future cash flows expected to Judgements are also made regarding whether, and for how arise from the asset.
long, licences will be renewed: this drives our amortisation policy for those assets.
The Group applies cautious assumptions for impairment testing.
Estimates are used in deriving these cash flows and The Directors estimate the appropriate discount rate using the discount rate.
Such estimates reflect current market pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the assessments of the risks specific to the asset and the time time value of money and the risks specific to the assets or value of money.
The estimation process is complex due to businesses being acquired.
the inherent risks and uncertainties.
If different estimates Amortisation of the projected future cash flows or a different selection of Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate were estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives made, these changes could materially alter the projected are judged to be indefinite.
Indefinite life assets, such as value of the cash flows of the asset, and as a consequence goodwill, are not amortised but are tested for impairment materially different amounts would be reported in the at each year end.
Impairment Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss annually for impairment and when circumstances indicate is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used that the carrying value may be impaired.
to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and does not exceed the carrying amount that would have are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no in circumstances indicate that the amount carried in the impairment loss had been recognised.
statement of financial position is less than its recoverable amount.
Determining whether the carrying amount of intangible assets has any indication of impairment requires judgement.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
133 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Intangible assets Intangible assets can be analysed as follows: Customer contracts Software and Contractual Libraries licences and Goodwill Brands relationships arrangements Licences and other development Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 3,411 175 332 10 121 79 78 4,206 Additions 58 4 20 2 84 Foreign exchange 2 2 At 31 December 2013 3,467 179 352 10 121 81 78 4,288 Additions 146 21 30 16 11 224 Foreign exchange 14 1 3 18 At 31 December 2014 3,627 201 385 10 121 97 89 4,530 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2013 2,654 143 306 74 43 48 3,268 Charge for the year 16 20 2 9 7 12 66 At 31 December 2013 2,654 159 326 2 83 50 60 3,334 Charge for the year 18 21 3 7 7 11 67 At 31 December 2014 2,654 177 347 5 90 57 71 3,401 Net book value At 31 December 2014 973 24 38 5 31 40 18 1,129 At 31 December 2013 813 20 26 8 38 31 18 954 All intangible asset additions in the year, excluding software, Cash flow projections are based on the Groups current five are due to the acquisition of three production companies, year plan.
Beyond the five year plan these projections are as detailed in note 3.4 2013: four production companies extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate of acquired.
The growth rate used is consistent with the long-term average growth rates for both the industry and Goodwill impairment tests the country in which they are located and is appropriate The following CGUs represent the carrying amounts of because these are long-term businesses.
goodwill: The discount rate has been revised for each CGU to reflect 2014 2013 m m the latest market assumptions for the Risk-Free rate, the Broadcast & Online 342 342 Equity Risk Premium and the net cost of debt.
There is SDN 76 76 currently no reasonably possible change in discount rate ITV Studios 555 395 that would reduce the headroom in any CGU to zero.
973 813 Broadcast & Online The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition There has been no impairment charge for the year 2013: of broadcasting businesses since 1999, the largest of which nil.
was the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form When assessing impairment, the recoverable amount ITV plc, which was treated as an acquisition of Carlton for of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
calculations require the use of estimates, specifically: pre-tax No impairment charge arose in the Broadcast & Online CGU cash flow projections: long-term growth rates: and a pre-tax during the course of 2014 2013: nil.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flow ITV Studios projections for this CGU are based include: the share of the The goodwill for ITV Studios has arisen as a result of the television advertising market: share of commercial impacts: acquisition of production businesses since 1999.
Significant programme and other costs: and the pre-tax market balances were created from the acquisition by Granada of discount rate.
United News and Medias production businesses in 2000 and the merger of Granada and Carlton in 2004 to form ITV plc.
The key assumption in assessing the recoverable amount ITV Studios goodwill also includes all of the goodwill arising of Broadcast & Online goodwill is the size of the television from recent acquisitions in 2012 to 2014, with the largest advertising market.
In forming its assumptions about addition being Leftfield in 2014. the television advertising market, the Group has used a combination of long-term trends, industry forecasts and No impairment charge arose in the ITV Studios CGU during in-house estimates, which place greater emphasis on recent the course of 2014 2013: nil.
The latest range of forecasts for the advertising The key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were market is 2-5% for 2015.
Also based include revenue including international revenue and as part of the review, a sensitivity of up to -10% was applied the ITV Studios share of ITV output, growth in commissions to 2015 for the purposes of the impairment test, again with and hours produced, margin growth and the pre-tax market no impairment identified.
These assumptions have been determined A pre-tax market discount rate of 10.6% 2013: 11.3% has by using a combination of extrapolation of historical trends been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
within the business, industry estimates and in-house estimates of growth rates in all markets.
The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible change in these assumptions would reduce the headroom in A pre-tax market discount rate of 11.7% 2013: 12.2% has this CGU to zero.
been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
SDN The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible Goodwill was recognised when the Group acquired SDN the change in the income and availability assumptions would licence operator for DTT Multiplex A in 2005.
It represented reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
the wider strategic benefits of the acquisition specific to the Following the acquisitions made by ITV Studios in 2014, the Group, principally the enhanced ability to promote Freeview Directors considered how assets and resources are shared as a platform, business relationships with the channels across the Studios division and the level of integration within which are on Multiplex A and additional capacity available the management structure for the purposes of reporting from 2010. and strategic decision-making.
They concluded that a single No impairment charge arose on the SDN goodwill during the Studios CGU continues to remain appropriate.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based are: income to be earned from medium-term contracts: the market price of available multiplex video streams in the period up to and beyond digital switchover: and the pre-tax market discount rate.
These assumptions have been determined by using a combination of current contract terms, recent market transactions and in-house estimates of video stream availability and pricing.
A pre-tax market discount rate of 12.6% 2013: 13.1% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
135 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued The acquisition of Leftfield makes ITV the largest unscripted 3.4 Acquisitions independent producer in the US and represents a significant contribution to the Groups strategy of building a strong international content business, particularly in the US.
Its New Keeping it simple... York base gives ITV Studios a significant presence on both The following section outlines what the Group has the east and west coasts and strengthens and complements acquired in the year.
All of the deals are structured so that a large part of Key terms the payment made to the sellers is determined based Cash consideration of 214 million $360 million was paid at on future performance consideration.
This is done acquisition and the maximum total consideration for 100% so that the Group can both align incentives for growth, of the business, including the initial payment, is 496 million while reducing risk so that total consideration reflects $800 million, undiscounted.
The remaining consideration actual performance, not expected.
of up to 282 million $440 million will be assessed at two IFRS accounting standards require some of this stages in the next five years, and the full amount will only be consideration to be included in the purchase due should Leftfield deliver exceptional earnings growth.
price used in determining goodwill contingent There is a two way adjustment mechanism used at the first consideration.
Examples of contingent consideration stage which will result in a payment or receivable in 2016 include top-up payments and recoupable performance and is based on average performance across 2014 and adjustments.
Any remaining consideration is required 2015 against stretching growth earnings targets.
Up to 69 to be recognised as a liability or expense outside million $107 million, undiscounted maximum would be of acquisition accounting put option liabilities and payable to the seller where the business outperforms the employment-linked contingent payments known as performance target.
If the minimum threshold performance earnout payments.
targets are not met, the Group would be entitled to receive The Group considers the income statement impact a performance adjustment of up to 30 million $50 of all consideration to be capital in nature and are million, undiscounted.
The adjustment is accounted for as therefore excluded from adjusted profit.
Therefore, for each acquisition below, the distinction The second stage payment comes in the form of a call and between the types of consideration has been put option that has been granted over the remaining 20% explained in detail.
The call option is first exercisable in the first half of 2017 and then again following expiry Read more on how each of these businesses plays an of the vendors put option, which is exercisable in 2019. important role in helping the Group execute its strategy in the Financial and Performance Review on page 44.
The maximum amount that the Group could pay for the remaining 20% equity interest is the residual of the 282 million less any amounts paid in 2016 $440 million in total, Acquisitions undiscounted.
Final payment will be entirely dependent on During 2014 the Group completed three acquisitions, all future performance of the business, which would need to be of which have been included in the results of the Studios exceptional for the maximum to be achieved.
Each of the businesses fit with the There are also call and put options over the non-controlling strategy of growing the Groups international content interests of Leftfields two start-up operations that are business and to work with other parts of the Studios exercisable in 2019.
The final payout is dependent on segment to exploit that content globally.
The following future performance over the next five years and is linked to sections provide a summary of each.
The maximum consideration payable Leftfield Entertainment Group by the Group is 8 million $13 million, undiscounted.
On 7 May the Group acquired 80% of the membership interests in New York-based producer Leftfield Entertainment Group Leftfield.
Leftfield owns Sirens Media and has established two start-up operations: Loud Television and Outpost Entertainment.
Together these businesses produce unscripted programming for over 30 US networks.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Acquisition accounting On 27 February 2014, the Group acquired 100% of United The Group consolidates all of the earnings of the business Productions, a company based in Denmark specialising in and the vendors remaining interest is recognised as a nonfactual, entertainment and reality programmes.
Contingent controlling interest in equity.
consideration includes a performance-based payment of 1 million maximum 3 million, undiscounted due to be Intangibles, being the value placed on brands, customer paid in 2018 and an earnout payment capped at 1 million contracts, non-compete arrangements and libraries, of undiscounted.
Other fair value adjustments have been made to the opening balance sheet, Key contractual arrangements of 2 million were identified though none of them are individually significant.
across the two acquisitions and goodwill, which represents the value placed on the opportunity to grow the content Goodwill represents the value placed on the opportunity to produced by the Group, has been provisionally valued at expand the Groups creative pipeline in the United States 7 million.
The goodwill amortisation attributable to DiGa is and exploiting that offering internationally.
It also reflects expected to be deductible for US tax purposes.
the value of the assembled workforce of creative talent who will develop that content.
The amortisation of goodwill is Acquisitions in 2013 expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
In 2013 the Group made four acquisitions.
Two were US producers High Noon and Thinkfactory, where total Based on the Groups projections at acquisition, which initial consideration net of 4 million of cash acquired of were adjusted as part of the finalisation of the acquisition 31 million was paid for 60% and 65% membership interests accounting, a revision of 41 million was made to goodwill respectively.
Call and put options were granted over the nonand reflects the performance adjustment and fair value of controlling interest and the discounted put option liability the non-controlling interest.
The expected value of the put at the acquisition date totalled 13 million.
The maximum option at the date of acquisition was 18 million $30 million, consideration which the Group could pay for the remaining discounted.
interest across both businesses is 93 million $144 million, At the year end, the Group has shown the gross put option undiscounted.
Final payment will be entirely dependent on liability of 21 million, net of the performance adjustment future performance of the business.
receivable of 32 million, on the Statement of Financial A 100% equity interest was acquired in UK-based producers Position.
The Garden and Big Talk, for total initial consideration net Any future changes in the fair value of the put option liability of 6 million of cash acquired of 25 million.
The maximum or performance adjustment arising from a reassessment additional amount payable is 45 million undiscounted, and of projections will be reported within financing costs on the is being accounted for as an earnout payment.
income statement, and excluded from adjusted profit.
Intangibles of 26 million were identified, largely reflecting Other acquisitions the value placed on brands, customer contracts and The Group made an initial payment of 6 million for two contractual arrangements.
smaller acquisitions in the period with a view that these acquisitions will strengthen and complement ITVs existing position as a producer for major television networks in both the US and the Nordics.
On 14 February 2014, the Group acquired 51% of the membership interest in DiGa Vision, a US-based producer that specialises in reality and scripted programming.
The Group consolidates all the earnings of this business and the vendors remaining interest will be recognised as a noncontrolling interest in equity.
A call and put option has been granted over the 49% non-controlling interest, with the put and call options both being exercisable over three to six years.
The maximum additional consideration that the Group could pay for the remaining interest is 28 million $42 million, undiscounted.
137 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Effect of acquisition The acquisitions noted above had the following impact on the Group assets and liabilities: 2014 2013 m Leftfield Other Total Total Consideration transferred: Initial consideration net of cash acquired Note A 209 5 214 56 Contingent consideration Note B 30 1 29 6 Total consideration 179 6 185 62 Fair value of net assets acquired: Property, plant and equipment 5 5 Intangible assets 65 2 67 26 Trade and other receivables 30 2 32 32 Trade and other payables 42 3 45 41 Fair value of net assets 58 1 59 17 Non-controlling interest measured at fair value Note C 18 2 20 13 Goodwill 139 7 146 58 Other information: Present value at acquisition of the liability on options 18 2 20 13 Present value at acquisition of the earnout payment 2 2 4 15 Contributions to the Groups performance: Revenue acquisition to date 57 5 62 61 Profit after tax acquisition to date 14 14 3 Revenue January to December 83 5 88 96 Profit after tax January to December 20 20 6 Note A: Cash of 5 million was acquired with Leftfield and 1 million with DiGa.
Note B: At year end the Leftfield contingent consideration was valued at 32 million due to currency translation see note 4.5 Note C: Non-controlling interest arises where the Group acquires less than 100% of the equity interest in a business, but obtains control.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Accounting policies 3.5 Investments For joint ventures and associates the Group applies equity accounting.
Under this method, it recognises the investment in the entity at cost and subsequently adjusts this for its Keeping it simple... share of profits or losses, which are recognised in the income The Group holds minority interests in a number of statement within non-operating items and included in different entities.
Accounting for these investments, adjusted profit.
For fixed asset investments no share of and the Groups share of any profits and losses, profits or losses are recognised.
depends on the level of control or influence the Group is granted via its interest.
The three principal The carrying value of all investments are shown as nontypes of non-consolidated investments are: joint current assets on the Statement of Financial Position.
arrangements joint ventures or joint operations, The 10 million increase in the year comprises 7 million associates and fixed asset investments.
A joint venture in relation to the acquisition of associates and fixed asset is an investment where the Group has joint control, investments and 3 million of funding to existing joint with one or more third parties.
An associate is an ventures.
entity over which the Group has significant influence Principal investments i. e. power to participate in the investees financial and The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2014 the operating decisions.
Any other investment is a fixed following holdings in significant joint ventures, associates asset investment.
and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2014 2013 Name % % Principal activity Joint ventures Provision of a standard and high definition enabled Freesat UK Limited 50.0 50.0 digital satellite proposition Digital 3 & 4 Limited 50.0 50.0 Operates the Channel 3 & 4 digital terrestrial multiplex Associates Independent Television News ITN Supply of news services to broadcasters in the UK Limited 40.0 40.0 and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited 25.0 25.0 Production of scripted content 1 Tomorrow ITV Studios Production of scripted content 2 Indigenous Media Production of content for digital distribution Fixed asset investments 3 Believe Entertainment Production of content for digital distribution 4 Zealot Networks Digital-first media company 1.
139 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Other provisions of 15 million primarily relate to potential 3.6 Provisions liabilities that may arise as a result of Boxclever having been placed into administrative receivership, most of which relate to pension arrangements.
In 2011 the Determinations Panel Keeping it simple... of The Pensions Regulator determined that Financial Support A provision is recognised by the Group where an Directions FSDs should be issued against certain companies obligation exists relating to events in the past and it within the Group in relation to the Boxclever pension scheme.
is probable that cash will be paid to settle it.
The Group immediately referred this decision to the Upper A provision is made where the Group is not certain Tribunal thereby effectively appealing it.
An FSD would how much cash will be required to settle a liability, so require the Company to put in place financial support for the an estimate is required.
The main estimates relate to Boxclever scheme: however, it cannot be issued during the the cost of holding properties that are no longer in period of the reference.
The reference process is ongoing and use by the Group, the likelihood of settling legal claims aside from procedural issues there were no substantive case and contracts the Group has entered into that are now developments in the period.
The Directors have obtained unprofitable.
leading counsels opinion and extensive legal advice in connection with the proceedings and continue to believe that the provision held is appropriate.
Accounting policies A provision is recognised in the statement of financial 3.7 Pensions position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation arising from past events, it is probable cash will be paid to settle it and the amount can be estimated Keeping it simple... reliably.
Provisions are determined by discounting the Historically, the Group offered its employees the expected future cash flows by a rate that reflects current opportunity to participate in a number of defined market assessments of the time value of money and the benefit schemes, but these collectively referred to as risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is the Scheme closed to new members in 2006.
Since recognised as a financing cost in the income statement.
The then a defined contribution pension scheme has been value of the provision is determined based on assumptions made available to all new employees and, where taken and estimates in relation to the amount and timing of actual up, the Group makes fixed payments into a separate cash flows which are dependent on future events.
fund on their behalf, and has no further obligation.
The Provisions risks and rewards associated with this type of scheme The movements in provisions during the year are as follows: are assumed by the members rather than the Group.
It is the members responsibility to make investment RestrucContract turing Property Other decisions relating to their retirement benefits.
provisions provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m m In this note we explain the accounting policies At 1 January 2014 7 1 4 15 27 governing the Groups pension schemes, followed by Utilised 4 1 1 6 analysis of the components of the net defined benefit At 31 December pension deficit, including assumptions made, and 2014 3 3 15 21 where the related movements have been recognised in the financial statements.
In addition, we have Provisions of 17 million are classified as current liabilities 2013: placed text boxes to explain some of the technical 19 million.
Unwind of the discount is nil in 2014 and 2013. terms used in the disclosure.
Contract provisions comprise onerous sports rights commitments that are expected to be utilised over the Accounting policies remaining contract period and onerous commitments on Defined contribution scheme transmission infrastructure.
Obligations under the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an operating cost in the income statement Property provisions principally relate to onerous lease as incurred.
For 2014, total contributions expensed were contracts due to empty space created by the ongoing 14 million 2013: 8 million.
review and rationalisation of the Groups property portfolio.
Utilisation of the provision will be over the anticipated life of the leases or earlier if exited.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Defined benefit scheme The level of retirement benefit for the Scheme is principally The Groups obligation in respect of the Scheme is calculated based on pensionable salary at retirement.
The latest by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees triennial valuation of the Scheme was undertaken as at have earned in return for their service in the current and 1 January 2011 by an independent actuary appointed by the prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its Trustee of the Scheme and agreed in 2012.
The next triennial present value and the fair value of scheme assets is then valuation will be as at 1 January 2014 and is expected to be deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield at the valuation agreed in 2015.
This will drive subsequent contribution rates.
date on high quality corporate bonds of a similar duration to An unfunded scheme in relation to previous Directors is the timing of the future expected benefit payments.
accounted for under IAS 19 and the Group is responsible The liabilities of the Scheme are measured by discounting for meeting the pension obligations as they fall due.
It is the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid using the securitised by assets held outside of the ITV Pension Scheme projected unit method.
This method is an accrued benefits in the form of gilts and included within cash and cash valuation method that makes allowance for projected earnings.
These calculations are performed by a qualified actuary.
The defined benefit pension deficit Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period The net pension deficit at 31 December 2014 was 346 in which they arise through the statement of comprehensive million 2013: 445 million.
The assets and liabilities of the Scheme are recognised in Defined benefit schemes the consolidated statement of financial position and shown within non-current liabilities.
The totals recognised in the current and previous years are: Keeping it simple... 2014 2013 m m In a defined benefit scheme, members receive cash Total defined benefit scheme payments during retirement, the value of which obligations 3,687 3,315 is dependent on factors such as salary and length Total defined benefit scheme of service.
The Group manages the necessary assets 3,341 2,870 investment, mortality and inflation risks in order to meet these obligations.
In the event of poor Net pension deficit 346 445 returns the Group needs to address this through a The remaining sections provide further detail of the value of combination of increased levels of contribution or the Schemes assets and liabilities, how these are accounted by making adjustments to the Scheme.
Schemes for and the impact on the income statement.
can be funded, where regular cash contributions are made by the employer into a fund which is invested, or unfunded, where no regular money or assets are required to be put aside to cover future payments.
The Group makes contributions to the Scheme, a separate trustee-administered fund that is not consolidated in these financial statements, but is reflected on the defined benefit pension deficit line on the consolidated statement of financial position.
It is the responsibility of the Trustee to manage and invest the assets of the Scheme and its funding position.
The Trustee, appointed according to the terms of the Schemes documentation, is required to act in the best interest of the members and is responsible for managing and investing the assets of the Scheme and its funding position.
141 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Total defined benefit scheme obligations The movement in the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligation is analysed below: 2014 2013 m m Keeping it simple... At 1 January 3,315 3,244 The section below describes the key areas that impact Current service cost 7 8 the defined benefit obligation the pension scheme liabilities position at the year end.
Each area can be Interest cost 144 133 defined as: Actuarial loss 366 70 Benefits paid 145 140 Current service cost the cost to the Group of At 31 December 3,687 3,315 future benefits earned by members which are attributable to the members service in the current Of the above total defined benefit obligation at period.
This is charged to operating costs in the 31 December 2014, 48 million relates to unfunded schemes income statement.
Interest cost future pension obligations are stated Assumptions in present value, and therefore a discount factor is used to state the current worth of a future cost.
This interest cost is the unwinding of the discount Keeping it simple... on the present value of the obligation.
Broadly, it Assumptions used to calculate the best estimate of is determined by multiplying the discount rate at future cash flows to be paid out by the Scheme include: the beginning of the period by the present value of future salary levels, future pensionable salary levels, the obligation during the period.
This is recognised an estimate of increases in pension payments, the life through net financing costs in the income expectancy of members, the effect of inflation on all statement see note 4.4. these factors and ultimately the discount rate used to Actuarial gains or losses arise from differences estimate the present day fair value of these obligations.
between the actual and expected outcome in the IFRS requires that we estimate a discount rate by valuation of the obligation.
These can be experience reference to high quality fixed income investments in adjustments, which are differences between the the UK that match the estimated term of the pension assumptions made and what actually occurred, or obligations.
The discount rate has therefore been they can result from changes in assumptions, such obtained using the yields available on AA rated corporate as movements in high quality corporate bond rates.
bonds over a term of 15 years 2013: 15 years, which is the Actuarial gains or losses are recognised through Groups estimate of the weighted average term of the other comprehensive income.
Benefits paid any cash benefits paid out by the The inflation assumption has been set by looking at the Scheme will reduce the obligation.
difference between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds.
The inflation assumption is used as a basis for the remaining financial assumptions, except where caps have been implemented.
The Group takes independent actuarial advice relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions used.
It is important to note that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements The principal assumptions used in the Schemes valuations at the year end were: 2014 2013 Discount rate for: Past service liabilities 3.50% 4.45% Future service liabilities 3.70% 4.60% Inflation assumption for: Past service liabilities 3.00% 3.35% Future service liabilities 3.05% 3.40% Rate of pensionable salary increases 0.9% 0.9% 1 Rate of increase in pension payment LPI 5% pension increases 2.90% 3.25% Rate of increase to deferred pensions CPI 2.00% 2.35% 1.
Limited Price Index Both the discount rate and the inflation assumption have been selected by reference to yield curves with terms and cash flow weightings consistent with the pension obligations.
The table below reflects published mortality investigation data in conjunction with the results of investigations into the mortality experience of Scheme members.
The assumed life expectations on retirement are: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Retiring today at age 60 65 60 65 Males 27.9 23.1 27.8 23.0 Females 30.5 25.6 30.4 25.5 Retiring in 20 years at age 60 65 60 65 Males 29.9 24.9 29.8 24.8 Females 32.5 27.5 32.4 27.4 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the defined benefit obligation are set out below: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 270 million 310 million Rate of inflation Retail Price Index Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 100 million 90 million Rate of inflation Consumer Price Index Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 50 million 40 million Life expectations Increase by one year Increase by 100 million The sensitivities above consider the impact of the single change shown with the other assumptions unchanged.
The inflation sensitivities allow for the consequential impact on the relevant pension increase assumptions.
The sensitivity analyses have been determined by extrapolating the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another assumption although this is not always the case.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the market value of scheme assets, which may or may not offset the changes in assumptions.
The sensitivity for life expectations excludes the longevity swap see the following Keeping it Simple box for the definition.
It is estimated that a 75 million benefit would arise on the value of the longevity swap from a one year increase in the market-based assumption of mortality.
143 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Section 3: Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Total defined benefit scheme assets Keeping it simple...
The Scheme holds assets across a number of different classes which are managed by the Trustee, who consults with the Group on changes to its investment policy.
Financial instruments are in place in order to provide protection against changes in market factors interest rates and inflation which could act to increase the pension deficit.
One such instrument is the longevity swap which the Scheme transacted in 2011 to obtain protection against the effect of increases in the life expectation of the majority of pensioner members at that date.
Under the swap, the Trustee agreed to make pre-determined payments in return for payments to meet the specified pension obligations as they fall due, irrespective of how long the members and their dependants live.
The difference in the present values of these two streams of payments is reflected in the Scheme assets.
The swap has a nil valuation at inception and, using market-based assumptions, is subsequently adjusted for changes in the market life expectancy and market discount rates.
Defined benefit scheme assets are measured at their fair value and can change due to the following: Interest income on scheme assets this is determined by multiplying the fair value of the Scheme assets by the discount rate, both taken as of the beginning of the year.
This is recognised through net financing costs in the income statement.
Return on assets arise from differences between the actual return and interest income on Scheme assets and are recognised through other comprehensive income.
Employers contributions are paid into the Scheme to be managed and invested.
Benefits and administrative expenses paid out by the Schemes will lower the fair value of the Schemes assets.
The movement in the fair value of the defined benefit Market value Market value 2014 2013 schemes assets is analysed below: m m 2014 2013 Quoted equities 654 747 m m Quoted bonds 2,329 1,711 Fair value of Scheme assets at Total quoted assets 2,983 2,458 1 January 2,870 2,693 Property 51 49 Interest income on Scheme assets 128 113 Infrastructure 77 65 Return on assets, excluding Hedge funds alternatives 183 165 interest income 390 118 Insurance policies 42 38 Employer contributions 103 91 Cash and cash equivalents 50 110 Benefits paid 145 140 Other 22 8 Administrative expenses paid 5 5 Longevity swap fair value 67 23 Fair value of Scheme assets at Total unquoted assets 358 412 31 December 3,341 2,870 Total Scheme assets 3,341 2,870 The actual return on the Schemes assets, being the sum Quoted bonds include interest rate and inflation swaps.
of the interest income on Scheme assets and return on Scheme assets, for the year ended 31 December 2014 was Included in the above are overseas assets of 1,218 million an increase of 518 million 2013: increase of 231 million.
2013: 872 million, comprised of equities of 569 million 2013: 576 million and bonds of 649 million 2013: 296 At 31 December 2014 the Schemes assets were invested in million.
a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt securities.
The fair value of the Schemes assets are shown in the following table by major category.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements When selecting the mix of assets to hold, and considering Addressing the net pension deficit their related risks and returns, the Trustee will weigh up the variability of returns against the target long-term rate of return on the overall portfolio.
The Group works closely with the Trustee to agree Amounts recognised through the income statement appropriate levels of funding for the Scheme.
This Amounts recognised through the income statement in the involves agreeing a Schedule of Contributions at each various captions are as follows: triennial valuation, setting out the annual deficit 2014 2013 payments to be made by the Group.
A recovery plan m m setting out the steps that would be taken to address a Amount charged to operating funding shortfall is also agreed.
costs: Current service cost 7 8 In the event that the Groups defined benefit scheme Scheme administration expenses 5 5 is in a net liability position, the Directors must take 12 13 steps to manage the size of the deficit.
Apart from Amount charged to net financing the funding agreements mentioned above, this could costs: involve pledging additional assets to the Scheme, as was the case in the SDN and London Television Centre Net interest on defined benefit LTVC pension funding partnerships explained obligation 16 20 below.
Total charged in the consolidated income statement 28 33 The levels of ongoing contributions to the Scheme are based on the current service costs as assessed by the Scheme Amounts recognised through the consolidated statement Trustee and the expected future cash flows of the Scheme.
of comprehensive income Normal employer contributions in 2015 for current service The amounts recognised through the consolidated are expected to be in the region of 11 million 2014: 10 statement of comprehensive income cost are: million assuming current contribution rates continue as 2014 2013 agreed with the Trustee.
m m Remeasurement gains and losses : The Groups deficit funding contributions to Sections A, B and C will be reviewed following the result of the 2014 Return on scheme assets triennial valuation, expected in Q2 2015.
The 2015 deficit excluding interest income 390 118 payments are not expected to exceed those made in 2014.
Actuarial losses on liabilities arising from change in: Under the SDN pension partnership, set up in 2010, the demographic assumptions 66 Group has agreed to make deficit payments of 11 million financial assumptions 402 4 for 12 years from 2011.
The LTVC partnership, established updated valuation data 36 in March 2014, commits the Group to an annual deficit 366 70 payment of 2 million in 2015, increasing by 5% per annum Total recognised in the until 2038. consolidated statement of comprehensive income 24 48 The 366 million actuarial loss on the Schemes liabilities was principally due to a material fall in bond yields over the year, which has resulted in a large increase in the liabilities.
The 390 million gain on the Schemes assets primarily results from increases in the market values of gilts and swaps, which has led to assets outperforming expectations.
