com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Section 5: Other Notes Transactions with key management personnel 5.1 Related party transactions Key management consists of ITV plc Executive and Nonexecutive Directors and the ITV Management Board.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: Keeping it simple... 2014 2013 The related parties identified by the Directors include m m joint ventures, associated undertakings, fixed asset Short-term employee benefits 9 8 investments and key management personnel.
Share-based compensation 5 5 To enable users of our financial statements to form a 14 13 view about the effects of related party relationships on the Group, we disclose the Groups transactions with 5.2 Contingent liabilities those related parties during the year and any associated year end trading balances.
Keeping it simple... A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently Related party transactions certain to qualify for recognition as a provision where Transactions with joint ventures and associated uncertainty may exist regarding the outcome of undertakings future events.
Transactions with joint ventures and associated undertakings during the year were: 2014 2013 m m There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation Sales to joint ventures 7 10 and guarantees, broadcasting issues, and in respect of Sales to associated undertakings 10 11 warranties given in connection with certain disposals of Purchases from joint ventures 26 27 businesses.
None of these items are expected to have a Purchases from associated material effect on the Groups results or financial position.
undertakings 59 57 The transactions with joint ventures primarily relate to sales and purchases of digital multiplex services with Digital 3&4 Limited.
Purchases from associated undertakings primarily relate to the purchase of news services from ITN.
All transactions with associated undertakings and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business on an arms length basis.
None of the balances are secured.
The amounts owed by and to these related parties at the year end were: 2014 2013 m m Amounts owed by associated undertakings 48 4 Amounts owed by pension scheme 1 2 Amounts owed to associated undertakings 5 Balances owed by associated undertakings largely relate to production funding advanced to Tomorrow ITV Studios and Mammoth Screen Limited.
Amounts paid to the Groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 3.7.
