Lines are open Monday to requests to receive corporate documents should, in the Friday 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. first instance, be directed to Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
com They can be contacted by telephone on ShareGift 0871 664 0300 ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may wish to dispose of a small quantity calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges from of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to the UK and sell on a commission basis.
The scheme is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further information 44 20 8639 3399 can be obtained by contacting them: from outside the UK.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 020 7930 3737 9.00 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Alternatively you could email them at: www.
co. uk Share price information The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company the Company website: mailings because they have multiple accounts should write to Capita to have the accounts amalgamated.
com shareholders can benefit from a number of online services as follows: Unsolicited mail Cast your proxy vote online: The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of Elect to receive shareholder communication electronically: this some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
View your holding balance, indicative share price and Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail valuation: should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS : View transactions on your holding and dividend payments FREEPOST 29 LON20771 you have received: London W1E 0ZT Update your address or register a bank mandate instruction to have dividends paid directly to your bank Alternatively you can register online or request an account: and application form by telephone or by email.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support its service that you do not Access a wide range of shareholder information including wish to receive unsolicited mail.
0845 703 4599 You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
uk Share dealing services The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, mps@dma.
uk building societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, the Companys Registrars offer online and telephone dealing for UK resident shareholders through Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
To use this service shareholders should contact Capita: 0871 664 0454 170 slugline Shareholder Information ar2014.
com Stock code: ITV Shareholder Information Glossary If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be Registered office eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services The London Television Centre Compensation Scheme.
Upper Ground London Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company SE1 9LT endorses will only be included in Company mailings.
020 7157 3000 Keep in mind that it is very unlikely that an authorised firm that you have no relationship with would contact you out of the blue offering to buy or sell shares or offer other Company registration number 4967001 investment opportunities.
Company website More detailed information can be found on the FCA Investor and shareholder-related information can be found website: on the Company website at: www.
uk consumers protect-yourself Financial calendar Ex-dividend date for the Final and Special dividend 30 April 015 Identity theft Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: Record date for the Final and Special dividend 1 May 2015 Annual General Meeting 14 May 2015 Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold Interim Management Statement 14 May 2015 your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Payment date for the Final and Special Keep all correspondence from Capita in a safe place, or Dividend 29 May 2015 destroy correspondence by shredding.
Half year results announcement 29 July 2015 If you change address inform Capita in writing or via the Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Shareholder Portal.
If you receive a letter from Capita Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited regarding a change of address but have not recently advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free moved please contact them immediately.
These are typically from overseas based Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in or lost in the post.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
If you change your bank account, inform Capita of the details of your new account.
You can do this via post or If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: online using the Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any Make sure you get the correct name of the person and letters Capita sends you about this.
If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA registered in your country of residence or the UK.
before getting involved by visiting: www.
do Report the matter to the FCA either by calling their Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or by completing an online form at: www.
uk scams If the calls persist, hang up.
