ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements Derivatives and other financial instruments i Accounting policies The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial Basis of preparation instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK and other foreign exchange rates.
The Company does not Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair a separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the of the parent company, has not been presented.
movement recorded in the profit and loss account within net Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement financing costs, except where derivatives qualify for cash to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the flow hedge accounting.
In this case, the effective portion grounds that it is included in publicly available consolidated of cash flow hedge is recognised in retained profits within financial statements which include disclosures that comply equity.
The cumulative gain or loss is later reclassified to the with the IFRS equivalent to that standard.
profit and loss account in the same period as the relevant hedged transaction is realised.
Derivatives with positive The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 1 exemption fair values are recorded as assets and negative fair values as from the requirement to prepare and disclose a cash flow liabilities.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is Subsidiaries determined by using the difference between the contract Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly exchange rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps Company has the power to govern the financial and is the estimated amount that the Company would receive operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries taking into account current interest rates and the current is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of UITF 41 creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
when it was adopted in prior years.
Annual FRS 20 sharebased payment compensation costs are recharged to the Third party valuations are used to fair value the Companys subsidiaries through the profit and loss account.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves and currency prices yields, Foreign currency transactions volatilities of underlying instruments and correlations Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling between inputs.
at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rate of through profit or loss the fair value change and interest exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences income expense are not separated.
arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss Dividends account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of of their approval by the Companys shareholders or their exchange on the date of the transaction.
Borrowings ii Employees Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including Two 2013: two Directors of ITV plc were employees of the directly attributable transaction costs, with subsequent Company during the year, both of whom remain at the year measurement at amortised cost using the effective interest end.
The costs relating to these Directors are disclosed in the rate method.
The difference between initial fair value and Remuneration Report.
the redemption value is recorded in the profit and loss account over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
