ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued viii Contingent liabilities x Related party transactions Under a Group registration, the Company is jointly and Transactions with key management personnel severally liable for VAT at 31 December 2014 of 58 Key management consists of ITV plc Executive Directors.
The Company has Key management personnel compensation, on an guaranteed certain finance and operating lease obligations accounting basis, is as follows: of subsidiary undertakings.
2014 2013 m m There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation Short-term employee benefits 3 3 and guarantees, broadcasting issues, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of Share-based compensation 2 2 businesses.
None of these items are expected to have a 5 5 material effect on the Groups results or financial position.
Total emoluments and gains on share options received by Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to key management personnel in the year were: guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, 2014 2013 the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and m m accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats Emoluments 3 3 the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as Gains on exercise of share options 2 7 it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make Gains on release of restricted share a payment under the guarantee.
awards 3 8 10 ix Capital and other commitments There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2014 2013: none.
xi Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2014, all of which are wholly owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning of television programmes ITV Rights Limited Rights ownership ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile ITV Consumer Limited services SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes 1 ITV Studios, Inc. Production of television programmes ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group Carlton Communications Limited Holding company 1,2 Leftfield Entertainment, Inc. Production of television programmes 1.
Incorporated and registered in the USA.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
com Stock code: ITV Independent Auditors Report Introduction and Table of Contents Primary Statements ITV plc Company Financial Statements Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2014 the following interests in significant joint ventures, associates and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2014 2013 Name % % Principal activity Joint ventures Provision of a standard and high definition Freesat UK Limited 50.0 50.0 enabled digital satellite proposition Digital 3 & 4 Limited 50.0 50.0 Operates the Channel 3 & 4 digital terrestrial multiplex Associates Independent Television News Supply of news services to broadcasters Limited ITN 40.0 40.0 in the UK and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited 25.0 25.0 Production of scripted content 1 Tomorrow ITV Studios Production of scripted content 2 Indigenous Media Production of content for digital distribution Fixed asset investments 3 Believe Entertainment Production of content for digital distribution 4 Zealot Networks Digital-first media company 1.
165 slugline ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 Pictured: DCI Banks returned for its third series in 2014.
It averaged 7.1 million viewers and a 24% share, making it the most successful series of the show to date.
