Additional shareholder information Additional shareholder information Financial calendar 2014 15 Shareholder communications Dividend payments Company website Ordinary dividend: J Sainsbury plc Interim and Annual Reports, and results Ex-dividend date 14 May 2014 announcements are available via the internet on our website at Record date 16 May 2014 www.
As well as providing share price data and Final dividend payable 11 July 2014 financial history, the site also provides background information about Ex-dividend date 20 November 2014 the Company, regulatory and news releases, and current issues.
Record date 21 November 2014 Shareholders can receive email notification of results and press Interim dividend payable 2 January 2015 announcements as they are released by registering on the page called Email news service in the Investor section of the website.
Other dates Annual General Meeting London 9 July 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements Interim results announced 12 November 2014 The Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 the Annual Interim report available at j-sainsbury.
co. uk 12 November 2014 Report is published on our website at www.
co. uk ar2014 Preliminary Results announced 6 May 2015 and has only been sent to those shareholders who have asked for a Annual General Meeting London 8 July 2015 paper copy.
Shareholders who have not requested a paper copy of the Annual Report have been notified of its availability on the website.
Annual General Meeting AGM A paper copy of the Annual Report is available by writing to The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday, 9 July 2014 at The theCompany Secretary, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, 33Holborn, London EC1N 2HT or you can email your request to London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Meeting and the proxy card for investor.
the meeting are enclosed with this report.
Electronic shareholder communications Registrars The Company encourages all shareholders to receive their shareholder communications electronically in order to reduce our For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to impact on the environment.
Shareholders can register their email report changes to personal details, shareholders should contact: address at www.
com jsainsbury and for each new Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, shareholder that does so we will make a donation to the Tree for All Bristol BS99 6ZZ.
Telephone: 0870 702 0106 campaign run by the Woodland Trust.
By registering with the eTree programme you will be giving the Company permission to send all Please remember to tell Computershare if you move house or change shareholder documents to you via email with a link to a secure website.
bank details or if there is any other change to your account information.
Alternatively, the Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take advantage of electronic communications.
The service allows youto: You can view and manage your shareholding online at www.
You will require your 11 character view the Annual Report and Financial Statements on the day it is Shareholder Reference Number SRN to log in.
Your SRN starts with published: the letter C or G and is followed by 10 numbers.
It can be found on receive electronic notification of the availability of future shareholder share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
information you must register your email for this service : Having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view society account is a more secure way than receiving your dividend by your dividend history: and cheque.
If you would prefer your dividends to be paid directly into submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
your bank or building society account further information is available from Computershare Investor Services address and telephone For more information, to view the terms and conditions, and to register number above.
You will still receive a tax voucher detailing each for the service, log on to www.
co. uk investors, click on dividend to enable you to complete your tax return to HMRC.
Shareholder Services and then follow the instructions on screen.
Alternatively, register by visiting www-uk.
For all methods, you will require your 11 character SRN which can be found on your share certificate or latest taxvoucher.
Investor relations For investor enquiries please contact: Mike Scott, Head of Investor Relations, J Sainsbury plc, Store Support Centre, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
For further stockbroker or a high street bank who will usually be able to assist information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, you.
Alternatively, you may consider using: Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 orfreephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys.
The Share Centre Ltd who offer a postal dealing service and they can be contacted at The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, American Depository Receipts ADRs Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for which orfreephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys: or TheBank of New York Mellon acts as depositary.
Computershare who offer a telephone and internet facility which gives shareholders the opportunity to trade at a known The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in price.
The telephone service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm, the US under the symbol JSYNSY, where one ADR is equal to four Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone ordinary shares.
The internet share dealing service gives shareholders the option to submit instructions to All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: trade online and more information can be found by visiting www.
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Further information and detailed terms and conditions are available PO Box 358516 on request by calling either provider.
Pittsburgh PA 15252-8516 Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-BNY-ADRS Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP International callers can call: 1-201-680-6825 The Company has a DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a specially arranged share dealing service.
No new shares are ShareGift allotted under this DRIP and 29,600 shareholders participate in it.
Full If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for details of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating available from the Registrars.
Alternatively, you can elect to join the them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which DRIP by registering for Investor Centre at www.
specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Key dates for the final dividend are as follows: PLC.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain Last date for return of revocation of DRIP mandates 20 June 2014 or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain DRIP shares purchased for participants 11 July 2014 income tax relief.
Further information about ShareGift may be DRIP share certificates issued 21 July 2014 obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 141 Additional shareholder information Continued Share fraud Over the past few years we have been aware, as have many listed companies, that our shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Further information on how to avoid share fraud or report a scam can be found on our website at www.
Consolidated Tax Vouchers Registered office and advisers The Company has adopted the Consolidated Tax Voucher CTV Registered office process in relation to dividend payments.
This means that those J Sainsbury plc shareholders receiving their dividend direct into their bank account 33 Holborn will receive a CTV once a year detailing all payments made London EC1N 2HT throughout that year.
Registered number 185647 Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT Auditors  LLP For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 1 Embankment Place 1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was 91.99 pence and London WC2N 6RH Bshares 10.941 pence.
Solicitors Share capital consolidation Linklaters LLP The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary shares One Silk Street 4 of 28 7 pence and B shares is made by reference to the market value London EC2Y 8HQ of each class of shares on the first day for which a market value is quoted after the new holding came into existence.
The market value Stockbrokers for CGT purposes of any share or security quoted on the Stock UBS Morgan Stanley Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations 1 Finsbury Avenue 25 Cabot Square on any day plus one quarter of the difference between the values.
London EC2M 2PP Canary Wharf London E14 4QA On Monday, 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: New ordinary shares 257.5 pence B shares 35 pence Cautionary statement General contact details Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward Share price information is available on the Companys website, looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and in the financial press and the Cityline service operated by the uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from Financial Times Telephone: 0906 003 3904. those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, For general enquiries about Sainsburys Finance call: 0500 405 060. statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology For any customer enquiries please contact our Customer Careline by including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, calling: 0800 636 262. intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could orshould or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Directors andemployees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 142
