Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, Non-controlling interest The equity in help inspire school children to take more depreciation, amortisation and rent.
asubsidiary not attributable, directly or exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched indirectly, to the Company.
ESOP Trusts Employee Share Ownership in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, Plan Trusts.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
primary and secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an PRA Prudential Regulation Authority.
co. uk activekids independent consumer label that guarantees Real discount rate Discount rate less a fair deal for marginalised workers and Annual General Meeting AGM This year inflation rate.
small scale farmers in developing countries.
the AGM will be held on Wednesday 9 July Producers receive a minimum price that ROCE Return on capital employed.
2014 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference covers the cost of production and an extra Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, RPI Retail Price Index.
premium that is invested in the local London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
Taste the Difference Sainsburys basics Sainsburys entry level own-brand www.
uk premium own-brand range of products.
Fair value The amount for which an asset Total Shareholder Return TSR The bps Basis points.
could be exchanged, or a liability settled, growth in value of a shareholding over a between knowledgeable, willing parties in an specified period, assuming that dividends Brand Match Unique initiative using arms length transaction.
are reinvested to purchase additional units of market-leading technology guaranteeing the stock.
price match on the basket of comparable FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing grocery branded goods with Asda and Tesco.
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to Tu Sainsburys own label clothing range.
Over 14,000 branded grocery lines are measure the performance of companies that Underlying basic earnings per share included and the initiative works by offering meet CR standards, and to facilitate Profit after tax from continuing operations customers who spend over 20 and buy at investment in those companies.
attributable to equity holders of the parent least one branded product coupons at the till, www.
com ftse4good before any profit or loss on the disposal of there and then for use at their next shop.
We FVTPL Fair value through profit and loss.
properties, investment property fair value even include promotions provided the same Method of valuing a financial instrument movements, impairment of goodwill, number of products are bought.
Maximum where changes in fair value are recognised retailing financing fair value movements, the value of coupons 10. directly in the income statement.
financing element of IAS 19 Revised, defined by Sainsburys Core own label brand.
benefit pension scheme expenses, Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
acquisition adjustments arising from the Click & Collect Service which allows Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Sainsburys Bank acquisition, and one-off customers to place general merchandise items that are material and infrequent in orders online for collection from over 900 IFRIC International Financial Reporting nature, divided by weighted average number stores.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year, CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed IFRSs International Financial Reporting excluding those held by ESOP trusts, which Securities.
Standard s. are treated as cancelled.
Collection Sainsburys own-brand general Income Statement Formerly known as Underlying cash flow from operations merchandising products.
the profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
Underlying cash generated from operations before net rent and cash payments to the Company J Sainsburys plc.
Joint venture JV A business jointly pension scheme.
owned by two or more parties.
Corporate Responsibility and Underlying operating profit Underlying Sustainability CR&S The need to act Kantar Worldpanel An independent third profit before tax from continuing operations responsibly in managing the impact on a party providing data on the UK Grocery before underlying net finance costs and range of stakeholders: customers, colleagues, Market.
underlying share of post-tax profit or loss investors, suppliers, the community and the from joint ventures.
Live Well for Less Sainsburys customer environment.
commitment to continue to help people live Underlying profit before tax Profit before CPI Consumer Price Index.
the life they want to live, with quality tax from continuing operations attributable products at fair prices.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax to equity holders of the parent before any from continuing operations attributable to Like-for-like sales The measure of profit or loss on the disposal of properties, equity shareholders divided by total value year-on-year same store growth.
investment property fair value movements, ofdividends declared during the year.
impairment of goodwill, retailing financing LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan.
fair value movements, thefinancing element Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP of IAS 19 Revised, defined benefit pension MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments dividend in shares of the Company through Nectar The most popular loyalty scheme arising out of the Sainsburys Bank aspecially arranged share dealing service.
in the UK, of which Sainsburys is a partner.
acquisition, and one-off items that are Earnings Per Share EPS Earnings material and infrequent in nature.
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 143
