Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1 General information An amended version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits was issued in June 2011 IAS 19 Revised and became effective for the Groups financial year ended J Sainsbury plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in 15 March 2014.
Changes under the amended standard have been applied the United Kingdom, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock retrospectively in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Exchange.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its Accounting Estimates and Errors, resulting in an adjustment of prior year registered address is 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT, United Kingdom.
The changes to the Groups accounting policies have been to immediately recognise all past service costs and to replace interest The financial year represents the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 prior financial cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is year 52 weeks to 16 March 2013.
The consolidated financial statements for calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 comprise the financial statements of the The defined benefit obligation no longer includes a reserve for scheme Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups share of the expenses: defined benefit pension scheme expenses are presented separately post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates.
within the income statement and included within the Groups definition of adjusted items to arrive at underlying profit before tax as detailed in Note 3.
The Groups principal activities are grocery related retailing and retail banking.
The change in accounting policy impacted the results for the 52weeks to 2 Accounting policies 15 March 2014 and 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 as follows: a Statement of compliance The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 52 weeks to 52 weeks to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the 15 March 16 March 2014 2013 European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations m m Committee IFRICs and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 Impact on the income statement: applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Companys financial Increase in administrative expenses 5 5 statements have been prepared on the same basis and, as permitted by Increase in finance costs 17 11 Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no income statement or Decrease in profit before tax 22 16 statement of comprehensive income is presented for the Company.
b Basis of preparation Increase in underlying profit before tax 1 2 The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded to the nearest million m unless otherwise stated.
They have been prepared on a going Impact on other comprehensive expense: concern basis under the historical cost convention, except for derivative Decrease in remeasurements on defined benefit financial instruments, investment properties and available-for-sale financial pension schemes 82 27 assets that have been measured at fair value.
Decrease in tax credit on other comprehensive expense 17 3 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires Decrease in other comprehensive expense 65 24 theuse of judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and Impact on the balance sheet: the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Decrease in retirement benefit obligations 194 134 The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience Decrease in deferred income tax asset 15 30 and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Increase in net assets 179 104 circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent As a result of the retrospective application of IAS 19 Revised, an opening from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The areas balance sheet at 18 March 2012 has been presented.
The retirement benefit involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where obligation at this date has reduced by 123 million, with a 31 million assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are increase in the associated deferred tax asset, resulting in an overall increase disclosed in note 2c.
of 92 million in net assets from the previously published amounts in the 2013 Annual Report.
Amendments to published standards Effective for the Group and Company in these financial IFRS 13 Fair value measurement has impacted the measurement criteria statements: ofthe fair value for certain assets and liabilities and also introduced new The Group and Company has considered the following new standards, disclosures as set out in note 29.
No retrospective changes were required as interpretations and amendments to published standards that are effective for aresult of the adoption of the Standard.
the Group and Company for the financial year beginning 17 March 2013: The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments for the offsetting of IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits financial assets and financial liabilities have increased the disclosure IFRS 13 Fair value measurement requirements where netting arrangements are in place, which are provided in note 28.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements require items Amendment to IAS 1Presentation of financial statements on Other of other comprehensive income and expense to be grouped into those items Comprehensive Income that will not be reclassified subsequently to the income statement and those Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on deferred tax items which may be reclassified in accordance with the respective IFRS to which they relate, including their associated income tax.
This presentational Annual improvements 2011 amendment has been applied retrospectively to the Group statement of other comprehensive income and does not affect the Groups financial position.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 86 2 Accounting policies continued Business combinations The Group and Company has concluded that the remaining above new The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business standards, interpretations and amendments are either not relevant to the combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a Group and Company or that they do not have a significant impact on the subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred Group and Companys financial statements, apart from additional disclosure.
and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent Effective for the Group and Company for the financial year consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and beginning 16 March 2014: contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate IFRS 11 Joint arrangements share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree identifiable net assets.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures value at the acquisition date through the income statement.
The acquisition of Sainsburys Bank has been detailed in note 37.
Amendments to IFRS 10,11 and 12 on transition guidance Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets on recoverable amount Joint ventures and associates disclosures Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities in which the Group has an Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation on Financial interest.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant instruments asset and liability offsetting influencebut not control.
The Groups share of the post-tax results of its joint ventures and associates are included in the income statement using the Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and equity method of accounting.
Where the Group transacts with a joint venture measurement, on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting or associate, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups IFRIC 21 Levies interest in the joint venture or associate.
These standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the EU.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets The Group and Company has considered the impact of the above of the entity, less any provision for impairment.
amendments to published standards and new standards that are not yet effective and concluded that they are either not relevant to the Group and Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the Company Company or that they would not have a significant impact on the Group and balance sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
Companys financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
Investment properties held by the Group are those contained within its joint The following standards and revisions will be effective for ventures with Land Securities Group PLC and The British Land Company PLC.
future periods: These are properties held for capital appreciation and or to earn rental income.
They are initially measured at cost, including related transaction IFRS 9 Financial instruments costs.
After initial recognition at cost, they are carried at their fair values Amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits, on defined benefit plans based on market value determined by professional valuers at each reporting date.
The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the Amendment to IFRS 9 Financial instruments, on general hedge reporting date and its carrying amount prior to re-measurement is included accounting within the income statement but is excluded from underlying profit in order Annual improvements 2012 to provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
Annual improvements 2013 Sainsburys Bank has been accounted as a 50 per cent owned joint venture for These standards are effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 July 2014. the 46 weeks to 31 January 2014 and consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to 28 February 2014, as detailed in note 13.
The Group and Company has considered the impact of the above standards and revisions and has concluded that they will not have a significant impact Revenue on the Group and Companys financial statements, apart from additional disclosures.
The accounting policies set out below and in note 3 have been Revenue consists of sales through retail outlets and, in the case of Sainsburys applied consistently to all periods presented in the financial statements by Bank, interest receivable, fees and commissions and excludes Value Added Tax.
the Group and the Company, except where noted above.
Sale of goods retail Sales through retail outlets are shown net of returns, the cost of Nectar reward Subsidiaries points issued and redeemed, colleague discounts, vouchers and sales made Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the on an agency basis.
Commission income is recognised in revenue based on financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of the terms of the contract.
more than one half of the voting rights.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition or, in the case Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of goods and of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Intercompany transactions services have been passed to the buyer and it can be measured reliably.
and balances between Group companies are eliminated upon consolidation.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to The cost of Nectar points is treated as a deduction from sales and part ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
of the fair value of the consideration received is deferred and subsequently recognised over the period that the awards are redeemed.
The fair value Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment loss in the of the points awarded is determined with reference to the fair value to financial statements of the Company.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Gains and losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with 2 Accounting policies continued the assets carrying amount and are recognised within operating profit.
Interest receivable The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted Interest income is recognised in the income statement for all instruments if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This calculation takes into account interest receivable or payable and fees and Intangible assets commissions receivable or payable that are integral to the yield, as well as incremental transaction costs.
The effective interest rate is the rate that Computer software discounts the expected future cash flows over the expected life of the Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or any provision for impairment.
Externally acquired computer software and liability at initial recognition.
software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years.
Costs relating to Fees and commissions development of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the Fees and commissions, that are not integral to the effective interest rate recognition criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets are met.
Other development calculation, are recognised in the income statement as services are provided.
expenditures that do not meet these criteria are expensed as incurred.
When In the case of insurance commissions the income comprises an initial the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a commission and profit share both of which are recognised on completion of straight-line basis over their useful economic lives of five to seven years the service to the extent reliably measurable.
Where there is a risk of potential within administrative expenses.
claw back, an appropriate element of the commission receivable is deferred and amortised over the life of the underlying loan or period of claw back.
Goodwill Car insurance initial commission is recognised on completion of the service Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration of an provided, with an element deferred to reflect cancellation expectation and acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable services yet to be performed in future periods.
assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset on the Groups balance sheet in the year in which it arises, and is considered to have an indefinite useful life.
Goodwill is tested for Finance income and costs impairment annually and again whenever indicators of impairment are Finance income and costs are recognised in the income statement for detected and is carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
This calculation takes into account interest receivable or Acquired intangible assets payable and fees and commissions receivable or payable that are integral Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair tothe yield, as well as incremental transaction costs.
For Sainsburys Bank, value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with finite useful economic finance cost on financial liabilities is determined using the effective interest lives are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
impairment and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, ranging from three to six years within administrative Interest paid and interest received for the purpose of the cash flow statement expenses.
Other intangible assets Cost of sales Pharmacy licences are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including warehouse and recognised provision for impairment and amortised on a straight-line basis transportation costs and all the costs of operating retail outlets and, in the over the licence period of up to 15 years within cost of sales.
case of Sainsburys Bank, interest expense on operating activities, calculated using the effective interest method.
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
They are amortised on a straight-line basis over Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised within cost of sales their contractual useful economic lives within cost of sales.
The accrued value at the reporting date is included in prepayments and accrued income.
Impairment of non-financial assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether Land and buildings there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset, which is recognised provision for impairment.
Capital work in progress is held at cost the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, is estimated in less any recognised provision for impairment.
Cost includes the original purchase order to determine the extent of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does price of the asset and the costs incurred attributable to bringing the asset to its not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group working condition for intended use.
This includes capitalised borrowing costs.
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
For retail property, plant and equipment and Fixtures and equipment intangible assets excluding goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading Fixtures, equipment and vehicles are held at cost less accumulated store.
For retail goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each retail chain of stores depreciation and any recognised provision for impairment.
Sainsburys Bank is deemed to be a separate CGU.
original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition and its intended use.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on Depreciation goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its values, on a straight-line basis, on the following bases: recoverable amount, or its original carrying value less accumulated depreciation if lower.
Freehold buildings and leasehold properties 50 years, or the lease term ifshorter Fixtures, equipment and vehicles three to 15 years Freehold land is not depreciated Capital work in progress is not depreciated.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 88 2 Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and properties held for, or in the Capitalisation of interest course of, development and are valued on a weighted average cost basis and Interest costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset, gross of tax relief.
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cost includes Non-current assets held for sale all direct expenditure and other appropriate attributable costs incurred in Non-current assets are classified as assets held for sale and stated at the bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to dispose.
Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances in the Group balance sheet comprise cash in hand Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is and at bank, deposits at central banks, investments in money market funds to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through and deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk probable and the asset is available for sale in its present condition.
A sale of changes in value.
should be expected to complete within one year from the date of classification.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Leased assets the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer equivalents for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
For property leases, the land and Current taxation building elements are treated separately to determine the appropriate lease Current tax is accounted for on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively classification.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged to equity or other Finance leases comprehensive income, in which case the current tax is also dealt with in Assets funded through finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equity or other comprehensive income respectively.
equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives or the lease term, whichever is shorter.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair Deferred taxation value of the asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The resulting lease Deferred tax is accounted for on the basis of temporary differences arising obligations are included in liabilities net of finance charges.
Finance costs from differences between the tax base and accounting base of assets and on finance leases are charged directly to the income statement.
Operating leases Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences, except to the extent Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
where it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, straight-line basis over the lease term.
affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
It is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Sale and leaseback balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred A sale and leaseback transaction is one where a vendor sells an asset and income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
immediately reacquires the use of that asset by entering into a lease with the buyer.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future substance of the transaction and whether or not the sale was made at the taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can assets fair value.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any apparent profit or loss from the sale is Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it deferred and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other from the sale is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Following initial recognition, the lease treatment is consistent with those Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences associated with principles described above.
investments in subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference Lease incentives and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Lease incentives primarily include up-front cash payments or rent-free foreseeable future.
Lease incentives are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive Leases with predetermined fixed rental increases obligation as a result of a past event, for which it is probable that an outflow The Group has a number of leases with predetermined fixed rental increases.
of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation, and where the These rental increases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the term amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured of the lease.
at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of Operating lease income the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase Operating lease income consists of rentals from sub-tenant agreements and is in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
recognised as earned on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 89 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Share capital Onerous leases Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Provisions for onerous leases, measured net of expected rental income, are attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in recognised when the property leased becomes vacant and is no longer used equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
in the operations of the business.
Provisions for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease-by-lease basis.
Foreign currencies Foreign operations Employee benefits On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated Pensions into sterling at year-end exchange rates.
The results of foreign operations The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution pension are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the Foreign currency transactions Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities In respect of the defined benefit pension scheme, the pension scheme denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at surplus or deficit recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined translation are recognised in the income statement.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit Financial instruments method.
Plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair The income statement charge consist of a financing charge, which is the net value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, and available-forof interest cost on pension scheme liabilities and interest income on plan sale AFS.
AFS investments are initially measured at fair value including assets and defined benefit pension scheme expenses.
The financing charge transaction costs.
Financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss is determined by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
benefit obligation to the pension scheme liabilities and plan assets at the beginning of the financial year.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an inception.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date accounted for as an effective hedging instrument.
Financial assets at fair are included as an accrual as at that date.
The Group has no further payment value through profit or loss are recorded at fair value, with any fair value obligations once the contributions have been paid.
gains or losses recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Long service awards The costs of long service awards are accrued over the period the service is Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or provided by the employee when it is probable that settlement will be required determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The Group and they are capable of being measured reliably.
Liabilities recognised in has no intention of trading these loans and receivables.
They include respect of long-term employee benefits are measured at the present value of amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and amounts due from other the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group in respect of banks.
Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, services provided by employees up to the reporting date.
these assets are carried at amortised cost less impairment using the effective interest method.
Income from these financial assets is calculated on an Share-based payments effective yield basis and is recognised in the income statement.
The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of the Group in the form of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares, designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
rights over shares or the value of those shares in cash terms.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee Subsequent to initial recognition at fair value plus transaction costs, these services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares assets are recorded at fair value with the movements in fair value recognised awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting in other comprehensive income until the financial asset is derecognised or conditions.
All share options are valued using an option-pricing model impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This fair value is charged to the income other comprehensive income is recognised in the income statement.
statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme.
Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Interest on AFS For cash-settled share-based payments the fair value of the employee debt instruments is recognised using the effective interest method.
services rendered is determined at each balance sheet date and the charge recognised through the income statement over the vesting period of the Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from share-based payment scheme, with the corresponding increase in accruals.
the financial assets have expired or where the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
The value of the charge is adjusted in the income statement over the remainder of the vesting period to reflect expected and actual levels of options Trade receivables vesting, with the corresponding adjustments made in equity and accruals.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the impairment.
employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 90 Impairment of financial assets 2 Accounting policies continued An assessment of whether there is objective evidence of impairment is Loans and advances including impairment carried out for all financial assets or groups of financial assets at the balance Loans and advances are held at amortised cost, using the effective interest sheet date.
This assessment may be of individual assets individual method, less provision for impairment and recognised on the balance sheet impairment or of a portfolio of assets collective impairment.
A financial when cash is advanced.
asset or a group of financial assets is considered to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events For Sainsburys Banks portfolios of loans, such as credit card lending and that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that personal loans, impairment provisions are calculated for groups of assets, loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the otherwise impairment is identified at a counterparty specific level following financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
Such evidence may include a missed interest or principal payment or the breach of a banking For individual impairment the principal loss event is one or more missed covenant.
The present value of estimated cash flows recoverable is determined payments, although other loss events can also be taken into account, after taking into account any security held.
The amount of impairment is including arrangements in place to pay less than the contractual payments, calculated by comparing the present value of the cash flows discounted at fraud and bankruptcy or other financial difficulty indicators.
An assessment the loans original effective interest rate with the balance sheet carrying value.
of collective impairment will be made of financial assets with similar risk If impaired, the carrying value is adjusted and the difference charged to the characteristics.
For these assets, portfolio loss experience is used to provide income statement and a provision recognised in the balance sheet.
The written down value of the impaired loan is compounded back to its net Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss exists on loans and realisable balance over time using an effective interest rate.
This is reported receivables, impairment provisions are made to reduce the carrying value of through interest receivable within the income statement and represents the financial assets to the present value of estimated future cash flows unwinding of the discount.
discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
A write-off is made when all or part of a claim is deemed uncollectible or For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the charge to the income forgiven.
Write-offs are charged against previously established provisions statement reflects the movement in the level of provisions made, together forimpairment or directly to the income statement.
Subsequent recoveries with amounts written off net of recoveries in the year.
ofamounts written off decrease the charge for loan impairment in the income statement.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered An allowance for impairment losses is also maintained in respect of assets in determining whether the asset is impaired.
If any such evidence exists for which are impaired at the balance sheet date but which have not been available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss is removed from equity identified as such, based on historical loss experience and other relevant and recognised in the income statement.
The cumulative loss is measured as factors.
The methodology and assumptions used are regularly reviewed to the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less reduce any differences between estimates and actual results.
any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Financial liabilities Interest-bearing bank loans, overdrafts and amounts due to Sainsburys Bank Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity customers are recorded initially at fair value, which is generally the proceeds instruments are not reversed.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a received, net of direct issue costs.
Subsequently, these liabilities are held at debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can amortised cost using the effective interest method.
be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption the income statement.
and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying Interest will continue to accrue on all financial assets, based on the written amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period down balance.
Interest is calculated using the rate of interest used to in which they arise.
discountthe future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
To the extent that a provision may be increased or decreased in The fair value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined subsequent periods, the recognition of interest will be based on the latest using the market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
This balance net of provision.
amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The remainder of the proceeds are Fair value estimation allocated to the conversion option.
This is recognised and included in The methods and assumptions applied in determining the fair values of shareholders equity, net of income tax effects and is not subsequently financial assets and financial liabilities are disclosed in note 29. re-measured.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and the equity components All derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the of the convertible bonds based on their carrying amounts at the date of issue.
contract date and are also measured at fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
Hedge relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where the derivative Trade payables financial instruments hedge the exchange rate risk of future highly probable Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at inventory purchases denominated in foreign currency.
Changes in the fair amortised cost using the effective interest method.
value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 91 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment loss calculations on loans and advances within Sainsburys Bank 2 Accounting policies continued note 17 b involve the estimation of future cash flows of financial assets, Hedge relationships are classified as fair value hedges where the derivative based on observable data at the balance sheet date and historical loss financial instruments hedge the change in the fair value of a financial asset or experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
This will typically liability due to movements in interest rates.
The changes in fair value of the take into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience and hedging instrument are recognised in the income statement.
These calculations are undertaken on a portfolio basis using various statistical modelling techniques.
Impairment models are continually The hedged item is also adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the reviewed to ensure data and assumptions are appropriate with the most hedged risk, with the corresponding adjustment made in the income material assumption being around expected loss rates.
The accuracy of any statement.
such impairment calculation will be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, and assumptions which differ from actual outcomes.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents at the inception of the Assuch, judgement is applied when determining the levels of provisioning.
hedge, the hedging risk management strategy, the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item or transaction and the nature of the Acquisition accounting risks being hedged.
The Group also documents the assessment of the The amount of goodwill initially recognised as a result of a business effectiveness of the hedging relationship, to show that the hedge has been combination is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The acquisition of Sainsburys Bank in January 2014 was accounted for Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not in accordance with applicable accounting standards which require the qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as recognition of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their finance income or costs as they arise.
As part of this process, it is also necessary to identify and recognise certain assets and liabilities which are not included on Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is the acquirees balance sheet, for example the value of customer relationships sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At and other intangible assets.
The exercise to fair value the Sainsburys Bank that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised balance sheet was inherently subjective and required management to make in other comprehensive income is retained in equity until the forecasted anumber of assumptions and estimates.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income The assumptions used in the modelling are sensitive to the market conditions is transferred to the income statement for the period.
at the time, in particular the current interest rates available and customer attrition patterns.
Management uses its best knowledge to estimate the fair Offsetting financial instruments value of acquired assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date.
The Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in acquisition of Sainsburys Bank has been detailed in note 37. the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or Post-employment benefits realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees.
The present value of the schemes liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date and the c Judgements and estimates net financing charge recognised in the income statement are dependent on The Group makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
Other key assumptions within impact the application of policies and reported amounts.
The resulting this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and assumptions including mortality rates, as set out in note 30.
Any changes to assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on used will impact the carrying value of the retirement benefit obligation.
As historical experience and expectations of future events.
detailed in note 30, the retirement benefit obligations are most sensitive to changes in the discount rate.
The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are Provisions discussed below.
Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and long service awards.
These provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timing of Goodwill impairment future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between The Group is required to assess whether goodwill has suffered any expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period impairment loss, based on the recoverable amount of the CGU or group of when such determination is made.
The carrying amount of provisions will be CGUs to which it is allocated.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been impacted by changes in the discount rate.
Details of provisions are set out in determined based on value in use calculations and these calculations require note 22. the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows and suitable discount rates as disclosed in note 12.
Actual outcomes could vary from these Income taxes estimates.
The Group recognises expected liabilities for tax based on an estimation of the likely taxes due, which requires significant judgement as to the ultimate Impairment of assets other than goodwill tax determination of certain items.
Where the actual liability arising from Financial and non-financial assets are subject to impairment reviews based these issues differs from these estimates, such differences will have an on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their impact on income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period when such recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value.
Detail of the tax charge and deferred tax are set out in amount is based on the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs notes 8 and 21 respectively.
Value in use is calculated from expected future cash flows using suitable discount rates and includes management assumptions and estimates of future performance as disclosed in note 11.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 92 3 Non-GAAP performance measures Certain items recognised in reported profit before tax can vary significantly from year to year and therefore create volatility in reported earnings which does not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Similarly, whilst defined benefit pension scheme expenses may not vary significantly, they no longer relate to the Groups ongoing activities given the closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The Directors believe that the underlying revenue, underlying profit before tax UPBT and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of Sainsburys ongoing business for shareholders.
Underlying profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
The adjusted items are: Profit loss on disposal of properties: Investment property fair value movements these reflect the difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its carrying amount at the previous reporting date: Retailing financing fair value movements these are fair value gains and losses on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost, onderivatives relating to financing activities and on hedged items in fair value hedges: Impairment of goodwill: The financing element of IAS 19 Revised: Defined benefit pension scheme expenses: Acquisition adjustments these reflect the adjustments arising from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition including the fair value unwind, the remeasurement of the previously held equity interest in Sainsburys Bank and the amortisation of acquired intangibles: and One-off items these are items which are material and infrequent in nature and do not relate to the Groups underlying performance.
The adjustments made to reported profit before tax to arrive at underlying profit before tax are: Restated 2014 2013 m m Underlying profit before tax 798 758 1 Profit on disposal of properties 52 66 Investment property fair value movements 10 2 Retailing financing fair value movements 8 10 IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge 23 16 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 7 7 Acquisition adjustments note 37 d 18 One-off items 68 9 Total adjustments 100 14 Profit before tax 898 772 1 Pr ofit on disposal of properties for the financial year comprised 51 million for the Group 2013:67 million and 1 million for the property joint ventures 2013: 1 million loss.
2 Financing fair value movements for the financial year comprised a 5 million loss for the Group 2013: 7 million loss and a 3 million loss for the joint ventures 2013: 3 million loss.
The tax impact of adjusted items is included within note 8.
One-off items The credit to one-off items of 68 million includes: the impact of a past service credit net of compensation payments of 148 million as a result of the closure of the Sainsburys defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual: an impairment of 92 million: costs of 45 million in relation to the Sainsburys Bank acquisition: a Nectar VAT upside of 76 million and other one-off costs of 19 million mainly in relation to internal restructuring and a provision for a commercial item, for which we intend to defend our position.
The past service credit net of compensation payments of 148 million includes 10 million of compensation payments to employees on transition to the Groups defined contribution schemes.
An impairment of 92 million has been recognised within administrative expenses to write down the value of certain sites where the Group no longer intends to build a supermarket following a review of the Groups property pipeline.
The recoverable amount of these sites has been determined on a fair value less costs to dispose basis.
Costs of 45 million have been incurred in finalising the transaction to purchase the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank and transitioning the Bank to a new, more flexible banking platform.
Accounting for VAT on the redemption of Nectar points has been the subject of a legal case over a number of years between HMRC and Aimia, the company who administer the Nectar scheme.
A Supreme Court ruling in June 2013 ruled in favour of Aimia, thereby enabling Sainsburys to recognise an upside of 76 million relating to historic VAT overpayments.
The prior year one-off item of 9 million included 20 million of transaction and transition costs incurred relating to the ongoing purchase of the remaining 50per cent of Sainsburys Bank: other one-off costs of 5 million incurred for internal restructuring: and the release of a disposal provision for indemnities of 16 million which was no longer required.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 93 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segment reporting The Groups businesses are organised into three operating segments: Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience : Financial services Sainsburys Bank : and Property investments The British Land Company PLC joint venture and Land Securities Group PLC joint venture.
Management have determined the operating segments based on the information provided to the Operating Board the Chief Operating Decision Maker for the Group to make operational decisions on the management of the Group.
All material operations and assets are in the UK.
The business of the Group is not subject to highly seasonal fluctuations, although within retailing there is an increase in trading in the period leading up to Christmas.
The Group has continued to include additional disclosure analysing the Groups Financial services and Property investment joint ventures into separate reportable segments.
As disclosed in note 14, Sainsburys Bank has been accounted for as a 50 per cent owned joint venture for the 46 weeks to 31January 2014 and consolidated as a 100 per cent owned subsidiary for the four weeks to 28 February 2014.
Results for the periods pre and post the acquisition of the additional 50 per cent of shares in Sainsburys Bank are included in the Financial services segment.
Revenue from operating segments is measured on a basis consistent with the revenue number disclosure in the income statement.
Revenue is generated by the sale of goods and services, as set out in note 2.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one period.
The Operating Board assesses the performance of all segments on the basis of underlying profit before tax.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles underlying operating profit from each of the segments disclosed to profit before tax.
Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 m m m m Segment revenue Retailing sales to external customers 23,921 23,921 Financial services to external customers 25 25 Underlying revenue 23,921 25 23,946 1 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind 3 3 Revenue 23,921 28 23,949 Underlying operating profit 873 6 879 Underlying finance income 20 20 Underlying finance costs 131 131 Underlying share of post-tax loss profit from joint ventures and associates 4 18 16 30 Underlying profit before tax 758 24 16 798 Profit on disposal of properties 51 1 52 Retailing financing fair value movements 5 3 8 IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge 23 23 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 7 7 Acquisition adjustments 18 18 One-off items 113 45 68 Profit before tax 887 3 14 898 Income tax expense 182 Profit for the financial period 716 Assets 12,023 4,113 16,136 Investment in joint ventures and associates note 14 3 401 404 Segment assets 12,026 4,113 401 16,540 Segment liabilities 6,907 3,628 10,535 Other segment items 2 Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations 994 131 1,125 Depreciation expense note 11 536 536 3 Amortisation expense note 12 14 1 15 Share-based payments 33 33 1 R epresents fair value unwind on loans and advances to customers resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition, as detailed in note 37 d. 2 Retail capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 975 million and intangible asset additions of 19 million.
Financial services capital expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 18 million acquired as part of the bank acquisition and intangible asset additions including goodwill of 113million of which 88 million was acquired as part of the bank acquisition, as detailed in note 12.
3 Amortisation expense within the Financial services segment includes 1 million of intangible asset amortisation arising from acquisition fair value adjustments, as detailed in note 37 d. J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 94 4 Segment reporting continued Financial Property Retailing services investments Group 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 Restated m m m m Segment revenue 23,303 23,303 Underlying operating profit 831 831 Underlying finance income 19 19 Underlying finance costs 130 130 Underlying share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associates 22 16 38 Underlying profit before tax 720 22 16 758 Profit loss on disposal of properties 67 1 66 Retailing financing fair value movements 7 3 10 Investment property fair value movements 10 10 IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge 16 16 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 7 7 One-off items 11 20 9 Profit before tax 768 2 2 772 Income tax expense 170 Profit for the financial period 602 Assets 12,163 12,163 Investment in joint ventures and associates note 14 159 373 532 Segment assets 12,163 159 373 12,695 Segment liabilities 6,857 6,857 Other segment items 1 Capital expenditure 1,145 1,145 Depreciation expense note 11 504 504 Amortisation expense note 12 13 13 Share-based payments 33 33 1 Capita l expenditure consists of property, plant and equipment additions of 1,120 million and intangible asset additions of 25 million.
5 Operating profit Restated 2014 2013 m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following items: Employee costs note 7 2,435 2,320 Depreciation expense note 11 536 504 1 Amortisation expense note 12 15 13 Profit on disposal of properties note 3 51 67 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 485 457 other leases 59 55 sublease payments received 41 34 Foreign exchange losses 6 Impairment losses on loans and advances 2 2 Acquisition adjustments excluding amortisation on acquired intangibles 19 3 One-off items note 3 68 9 1 A mortisation expense includes 1 million amortisation on acquired intangibles resulting from the Sainsburys Bank acquisition fair value adjustments.
2 Acquisition adjustments exclude 1 million amortisation on acquired intangibles included in amortisation expense in this note.
Acquisition adjustments are detailed in note 37 d. 3 Includes an impairment of 92 million 2013: nil as detailed within note 3.
2014 2013 Group m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.6 0.5 Audit related assurance services 0.2 0.2 Tax advisory, tax compliance, and other non-audit fees 0.1 0.1 Total fees 1.2 1.0 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 95 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Finance income and finance costs Restated 2014 2013 m m Interest on bank deposits and other financial assets 20 19 Finance income 20 19 Borrowing costs: Secured borrowings 91 98 Unsecured borrowings 56 55 Obligations under finance leases 8 7 Provisions amortisation of discount note 22 2 2 157 162 Other finance costs: Interest capitalised qualifying assets note 11 26 32 1 Retailing financing fair value movements 5 7 IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge note 30 23 16 2 9 Finance costs 159 153 1 F air value movements relate to fair value adjustments on non-derivative financial assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost and on derivatives relating to financing activities and hedged items in fair valuehedges.
7 Employee costs Restated 2014 2013 m m Employee costs for the Group during the year amounted to: Wages and salaries, including bonus and termination benefits 2,150 2,051 Social security costs 141 133 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 77 44 Pension costs defined benefit schemes note 30 34 59 Share-based payments expense note 31 33 33 2,435 2,320 Number Number 000s 000s The average number of employees, including Directors, during the year were: Full-time 49.4 49.1 Part-time 111.1 107.9 160.5 157.0 Full-time equivalent 107.0 105.0 Details of key management compensation can be found in note 32 and within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 73.
8 Income tax expense Restated 2014 2013 m m Current tax expense: Current year UK tax 204 172 Current year overseas tax 2 1 Under over provision in prior years 8 20 214 153 Deferred tax credit expense: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 31 30 Over under provision in prior years 12 19 Effect of change in tax rate 51 32 Total deferred tax credit expense note 21 32 17 Total income tax expense in income statement 182 170 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 96 8 Income tax expense continued The effective tax rate of 20.3 per cent 2013: 22.0 per cent is lower than 2013: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: Restated 2014 2013 m m Profit before taxation 898 772 Income tax at UK corporation tax rate of 23.04% 2013: 24.08% 207 186 Effects of underlying items: Disallowed depreciation on UK properties 31 29 Over provision in prior years 7 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 31 21 Other 3 11 Effects of non-underlying items: Profit on disposal of properties 16 5 Investment property fair value movements 2 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 20 11 Under over provision in prior years 3 1 Property impairments 21 Other 3 2 Total income tax expense in income statement 182 170 On 20 March 2013, the Chancellor announced that the main rate of UK corporation tax would reduce to 21.0 per cent from 1 April 2014 and to 20.0 per cent from 1April 2015.
This was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013 and hence the effect of the change on the deferred tax balances has been included in the 2014 figures above.
Income tax credited or charged to equity and or other comprehensive income during the year is as follows: Retirement Share-based benefit Fair value payments obligations movements Total m m m m 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 1 34 1 34 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 3 41 8 30 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 22 6 16 Income tax charged credited 2 53 3 48 52 weeks to 16 March 2013 Restated Current tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 23 1 24 Deferred tax recognised in equity or other comprehensive income 3 61 2 62 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 8 3 5 Income tax credited 3 76 2 81 The current and deferred tax in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension schemes remeasurements and available for sale fair value movements have been charged or credited through other comprehensive income.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 97 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts note 25, which are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the earnings attributable to the ordinary shareholders are adjusted by the interest on the convertible bonds net of tax.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the number of shares that would be issued if all convertible bonds are assumed to be converted.
Underlying earnings per share is provided by excluding the effect of any profit or loss on disposal of properties, investment property fair value movements, retailing financing fair value movements, impairment of goodwill, IAS 19 Revised pension financing element, defined benefit pension scheme expenses, acquisition adjustments andone-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
This alternative measure of earnings per share is presented to reflect the Groups underlying trading performance.
All operations are continuing for the periods presented.
2014 2013 million million Weighted average number of shares in issue 1,896.8 1,881.5 Weighted average number of dilutive share options 25.4 20.5 Weighted average number of dilutive convertible bonds 46.3 46.0 Total number of shares for calculating diluted earnings per share 1,968.5 1,948.0 Restated m m Profit for the financial year 716 602 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 11 Diluted earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 727 613 m m Profit for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent 716 602 Less add net of tax : Profit on disposal of properties 53 55 Investment property fair value movements 10 Retailing financing fair value movements 7 8 IAS 19 Revised pension financing charge 18 12 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 5 5 Acquisition adjustments 17 One-off items 33 8 Revaluation of deferred tax balances 20 11 Underlying profit after tax 623 579 Add interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 11 11 Diluted underlying profit after tax 634 590 Restated pence pence per share per share Basic earnings 37.7 32.0 Diluted earnings 36.9 31.5 Underlying basic earnings 32.8 30.8 Underlying diluted earnings 32.2 30.3 10 Dividend 2014 2013 pence pence 2014 2013 per share per share m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: Final dividend of prior financial year 11.9 11.6 225 218 Interim dividend of current financial year 5.0 4.8 95 90 16.9 16.4 320 308 After the balance sheet date, a final dividend of 12.3 pence per share 2013: 11.9 pence per share was proposed by the Directors in respect of the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014, resulting in a total final proposed dividend of 234 million 2013: 225 million.
The proposed final dividend has not been included as a liability at 15 March 2014.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 98 11 Property, plant and equipment Group Group Company Land and Fixtures and Group Land and buildings equipment Total buildings m m m m Cost At 17 March 2013 9,422 5,551 14,973 19 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 37 18 18 Additions 580 395 975 Disposals 341 915 1,256 Transfer to assets held for sale 9 9 At 15 March 2014 9,652 5,049 14,701 19 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 17 March 2013 1,591 3,578 5,169 2 Depreciation expense for the year 168 368 536 Impairment loss 92 92 1 Disposals 75 899 974 Transfer to assets held for sale 2 2 At 15 March 2014 1,774 3,047 4,821 3 Net book value at 15 March 2014 7,878 2,002 9,880 16 Capital work-in-progress included above 388 77 465 Cost At 18 March 2012 8,918 5,340 14,258 19 Acquisition of subsidiaries 21 21 Additions 635 464 1,099 Disposals 140 252 392 Transfer to assets held for sale 12 1 13 At 16 March 2013 9,422 5,551 14,973 19 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 18 March 2012 1,468 3,461 4,929 2 Depreciation expense for the year 149 355 504 Disposals 26 238 264 At 16 March 2013 1,591 3,578 5,169 2 Net book value at 16 March 2013 7,831 1,973 9,804 17 Capital work-in-progress included above 397 165 562 Impairment of property, plant and equipment In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, property, plant and equipment is only tested for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, following a triggering event, each store is a cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amounts for the CGUs are based on value in use which is calculated on the cash flows expected to be generated by the units using the latest budget and forecast data, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculation are the discount rate, growth rates and expected changes in margin.
Changes in income and expenditure are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
The forecasts are extrapolated over 25 years assuming a nil growth rate.
The discount rate is based on the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital of nine per cent 2013: ten per cent.
Non-store assets and the property, plant and equipment of Sainsburys Bank are reviewed separately for impairment in the event that a triggering event is identified.
When an impairment review is required, the carrying value of the asset is compared with its value in use using a methodology consistent with that described above and with its fair value less costs to dispose to determine the recoverable amount.
During the year, an impairment of 92 million 2013: nil was recognised to write down the value of certain sites to fair value less costs to dispose.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 99 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Interest capitalised Interest capitalised included in additions amounted to 26 million 2013: 32 million for the Group and nil 2013: nil for the Company.
Accumulated interest capitalised included in the cost of property, plant and equipment net of disposals amounted to 344 million 2013: 330 million for the Group and nil 2013: nil for the Company.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 5.3 per cent 2013:5.3per cent.
Security Property, plant and equipment of 125 2013: 128 supermarket properties, with a net book value of 2,133 million 2013: 2,213 million has been pledged as security for the long-term financing note 20.
In addition, property, plant and equipment of a further six supermarket properties, with a net book value of 66 million 2013: 67 million has been pledged as security to underpin the residual value guarantee given by the Group with regards to 16 supermarket properties sold in March 2000 and ten supermarket properties sold in July 2000.
On 17 June 2010 property, plant and equipment comprising eight supermarket properties, with a net book value of 167 million were transferred to the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the partnership.
On 25 March 2011 a further 13 properties with a net book value of 345 million were transferred to the partnership see note 30.
Analysis of assets held under finance leases 2014 2014 2013 2013 Land and Fixtures and 2014 Land and Fixtures and 2013 buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total Group m m m m m m Cost 63 15 78 62 15 77 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 27 13 40 26 9 35 Net book value 36 2 38 36 6 42 12 Intangible assets Computer Acquired Goodwill software intangibles Other Total Group m m m m m Cost At 17 March 2013 100 188 46 334 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 37 45 4 39 88 Additions 42 2 44 Disposals 48 48 At 15 March 2014 145 186 39 48 418 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 17 March 2013 131 32 163 Amortisation expense for the year 12 1 2 15 Disposals 47 47 Impairment 1 1 At 15 March 2014 1 96 1 34 132 Net book value at 15 March 2014 144 90 38 14 286 Cost At 18 March 2012 100 172 48 320 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 16 8 24 Disposals 10 10 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 At 16 March 2013 100 188 46 334 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 18 March 2012 123 37 160 Amortisation expense for the year 8 5 13 Disposals 10 10 At 16 March 2013 131 32 163 Net book value at 16 March 2013 100 57 14 171 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 100 12 Intangible assets continued Acquired intangibles relating to customer relationships, purchased credit card relationships and the value of core deposits were recognised as part of the fair value accounting on the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank.
Other intangibles primarily comprise of pharmacy licences.
The goodwill balance above relates primarily to the Groups acquisitions of Sainsburys Bank plc 45 million, Bells Stores Ltd, Jacksons Stores Ltd 55 million, J.
B. Beaumont Limited, S. L. Shaw Limited, Culcheth Provision Stores Ltd, Town Centre Retail Bicester Ltd, SW Dewsbury Ltd, Anobii Ltd and Portfolio Investments Ltd and is allocated to the respective cash-generating units CGUs or group of CGUs within the retailing or financial services segment.
The CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated and the level at which it is monitored in the retailing segment are deemed to be the respective acquired retail chains of stores whilst within financial services, Sainsburys Bank is deemed a separate CGU.
The value of the goodwill was tested for impairment during the current financial year by means of comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU with the carrying value of its goodwill.
To calculate the retail CGUs value in use, Board approved cash flows for the following financial year are assumed to remain flat and are discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent 2013: ten per cent over a 25 year period, being the estimated average remaining useful life of a store.
To calculate Sainsburys Bank value in use, Board approved cash flows are discounted at a pre-tax rate of nine per cent over a five year period with a terminal value.
Based on the operating performance of the respective CGUs, an impairment loss of 1million was identified in the current financial year 2013: nil.
The valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions would not result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
13 Investments in subsidiaries 2014 2013 m m Shares in subsidiaries Company Beginning of year 7,316 7,285 Additions 381 33 Provision for diminution in value of investment 135 2 End of year 7,562 7,316 The Companys principal operating subsidiaries, all of which are directly owned by the Company, are: Share of ordinary Country of allotted capital and registration or Principal activity voting rights incorporation JS Insurance Limited Insurance 100% Isle of Man JS Information Systems Limited IT services 100% England Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd Retailing 100% England Sainsburys Bank plc Financial services 100% England All principal operating subsidiaries operate in the countries of their registration or incorporation.
Sainsburys Bank plc has been consolidated for four weeks to 28 February 2014, the Banks nearest month-end to the Groups year-end.
Adjustments have been made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occurred between this date and the Groups balance sheet date.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s410 of the Companies Act 2006 to disclose a list comprising solely the principal subsidiaries.
A full list of subsidiaries will be sent to Companies House with the next annual return.
During the year, a provision of 135 million 2013: 2 million was made against investments in subsidiaries where the carrying value exceeded the recoverableamount.
The Group has an interest in two partnerships, Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership and Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership, which are fully consolidated into these Group accounts.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 and has therefore not appended the accounts of these qualifying partnerships to these accounts.
Separate accounts for these partnerships are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 101 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Investments in joint ventures and associates Group share of postGroup shares acquisition Company at cost reserves Group Total shares at cost m m m m At 17 March 2013 390 142 532 91 Additions 13 13 Disposals 85 92 177 85 Other adjustments 7 7 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 30 30 Retailing financing fair value movements 3 3 Share of profit on disposal of properties 1 1 Dividends received 1 1 318 84 402 6 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 2 2 At 15 March 2014 318 86 404 6 At 18 March 2012 433 133 566 91 Additions 4 4 Disposals 5 5 1 Other adjustments 42 42 Share of retained profit: Underlying profit after tax 38 38 Investment property fair value movements 10 10 Retailing financing fair value movements 3 3 Share of loss on disposal of properties 1 1 Dividends received 18 18 390 139 529 91 Movements in other comprehensive income note 24 3 3 At 16 March 2013 390 142 532 91 1 The o ther adjustment includes the offset of a creditor balance of 43 million due to The Harvest Limited Partnership against the investment held in the joint venture by the Group.
This was agreed with Land Securities Group PLC.
The Groups principal joint ventures are: Share of ordinary Country of registration or Year-end allotted capital incorporation BL Sainsbury Superstores Limited property investment 31 March 50% England On 31 January 2014, the Group acquired an additional 50 per cent of the share capital of Sainsburys Bank plc, previously a joint venture, making the company a wholly-owned subsidiary which has been consolidated within the Group results from the date of acquisition onwards.
Where relevant, management accounts for the joint ventures have been used to include the results up to 15 March 2014.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of its principal joint ventures are detailed below: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 666 1,418 Current assets 46 1,763 Current liabilities 48 1,809 Non-current liabilities 265 845 Net assets 399 527 Income 213 208 Expenses 185 174 Investment property fair value movements 10 Profit after tax 28 24 Investments in joint ventures at 15 March 2014 include 5 million of goodwill 2013: 5 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 102 15 Available-for-sale financial assets Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Non-current Unlisted equity investments 2 1 Investment securities 32 Interest bearing financial assets 37 34 37 34 Other financial asset 184 154 255 189 37 34 The other financial asset represents the Groups beneficial interest in a commercial property investment pool.
The fair value of the other financial asset is based on discounted cash flows assuming a property rental growth rate of three per cent 2013: three per cent and a weighted average cost of capital of nine per cent 2013: ten per cent.
There were no disposals or impairment provisions on available-for-sale financial assets in either the current or the previous financial year see note 29 for sensitivity analysis.
Investment securities of 32 million 2013: nil relate to a euro denominated floating rate note held by Sainsburys Bank.
The fair value movement on investment securities classified as available for sale is 1 million 2013: nil.
16 Inventories 2014 2013 m m Goods held for resale 1,001 973 Development properties 4 14 1,005 987 The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014 was 17,883 million 2013: 17,602 million.
17 Receivables a Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Non-current Amounts owed by Group entities 1,229 1,229 Other receivables 26 38 35 26 38 1,229 1,264 Current Trade receivables 125 128 Amounts owed by Group entities 1,422 1,232 Other receivables 247 130 20 372 258 1,422 1,252 Prepayments and accrued income 61 48 6 2 433 306 1,428 1,254 Non-current other receivables of 26 million 2013: 38 million include nil of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 2013: 5 million and nil of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank 2013: 30 million.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are on commercial terms.
Current other receivables of 247 million 2013: 130 million, which include 117million 2013: nil of bank funds in the course of settlement, are generally non-interest bearing, other than nil 2013: 20 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital due from Sainsburys Bank.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in sterling.
Following the acquisition of Sainsburys Bank, an additional 25 million floating rate subordinated undated loan capital and 30 million floating rate subordinated dated loan capital was acquired from Lloyds Banking Group.
In February 2014, both the existing and acquired floating rate subordinated undated loan capital, totalling 50 million, were repaid.
Current amounts owed by Group entities to the Company include 60 million floating rate subordinated dated loan capital as detailed in note32.
The Groups exposure to credit risk arising from its retail operations is minimal given that the customer base is large and unrelated and that the overwhelming majority of customer transactions are settled through cash or secure electronic means.
New parties wishing to obtain credit terms with the Group are credit checked prior to invoices being raised and credit limits are determined on an individual basis.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 103 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Receivables continued b Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2014 2013 m m Non-current Loans and advances to customers 1,323 Impairment of loans and advances 31 1,292 Current Loans and advances to customers 1,335 Impairment of loans and advances 52 1,283 Loans and advances to customers accrue interest at commercial borrowing rates.
Refer to note 28 for details on Sainsburys Bank credit risk.
c Provision for impairment of loans and advances 2014 2013 m m Acquisition of subsidiaries note 37 a 83 Additional provisions 2 Utilisation of provision 2 Closing provision 83 d Major counterparties Major counterparties are identified as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Number of Balance Number of Balance counterparties m counterparties m Trade receivables 2 24 2 28 Other receivables 2 26 2 27 Related parties 1 28 2 76 Significant trade receivables identified above relate to amounts receivable from credit card companies and balances due from external suppliers.
At 15 March 2014, two significant other receivables were identified, being amounts due from the National Health Service of 15 million and CBRE of 11million 2013: 16 million and 11 million respectively.
The related party receivable in 2014 is from the Groups joint venture The Harvest Ltd Partnership, while in 2013 related party receivables were from The Harvest Ltd Partnership and Sainsburys Bank.
Loans are approved by the Investment Committee and Sainsburys Bank loans are determined by capital funding requirements of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
No major counterparty balances are considered overdue or impaired.
18 Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets held for sale of 7 million 2013: 13 million relate to properties held in the retailing segment.
Sale of these assets is expected to occur in the financial year beginning 16 March 2014.
Assets held for sale at 16 March 2013 were sold during the financial year ended 15 March 2014.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 104 19 Payables a Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Current Trade payables 1,846 1,908 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,427 4,514 Other payables 590 534 30 57 Accruals and deferred income 256 284 2,692 2,726 4,457 4,571 Non-current Amounts owed to Group entities 863 876 Other payables 10 3 Accruals and deferred income 194 170 204 173 863 876 The Groups policy on payment of creditors is to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Deferred income includes accounting for leases with fixed rental increases and lease incentives on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Foreign currency risk The Group has net euro denominated trade payables of 11 million 2013: 12 million and US dollar denominated trade payables of 35 million 2013:19million.
b Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 2014 2013 m m Current Customer accounts 3,245 3,245 Non-current Customer accounts 302 302 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers are generally repayable on demand and accrue interest at commercial deposit rates.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 105 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Borrowings 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Group m m m m m m Secured loans: Loan due 2018 88 868 956 82 957 1,039 Loan due 2031 28 827 855 21 847 868 Unsecured loans: Bank overdrafts 13 13 13 13 Revolving credit facility 200 200 Bank loan due 2014 69 69 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 96 92 188 23 268 291 Bank loans due 2016 42 42 43 43 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 111 111 Bank loans due 2018 4 19 23 Convertible bond due 2014 189 189 1 183 184 Other loans due 2015 24 24 25 25 Finance lease obligations 27 161 188 21 139 160 Total borrowings 534 2,250 2,784 165 2,617 2,782 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Company m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 7 7 Revolving credit facility 200 200 Bank loan due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 96 92 188 19 227 246 Bank loans due 2016 42 42 43 43 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 111 111 Bank loans due 2018 4 19 23 Convertible bond due 2014 189 189 1 183 184 Other loans due 2015 24 24 25 25 Total borrowings 341 394 735 24 633 657 Secured loans Secured loans are secured on 125 2013: 128 supermarket properties note 11 and comprise loans from two finance companies: a fixed rate amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 929 million 2013: 1,002 million at a weighted average rate of 5.37 per cent stepping up to 5.41 per cent and carrying amount of 956 million 2013: 1,039 million with a final repayment date of April 2018: and an inflation linked amortising loan with an outstanding principal value of 829 million 2013: 841 million at a fixed real rate of 2.36 per cent where principal and interest are uplifted annually by RPI subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent with a carrying amount of 855 million 2013:868 million with a final repayment date of April 2031.
The Group has entered into interest rate swaps to convert 211 million 2013: 211 million of the 929 million 2013: 1,002 million loan due 2018 from fixed to floating rates of interest.
These transactions have been accounted for as fair value hedges note 29.
In previous years, 572 million of swaps accounted for as fair value hedges were fide-designated from their fair value hedging relationship.
The fair value adjustment of the debt previously hedged by these swaps will be amortised over the remaining life of the loans, resulting in an amortisation charge to the income statement in the current financial year of 1 million 2013:1 million.
The Group has entered into inflation swaps to convert 400 million 2013: 300 million of the 829 million 2013: 841 million loan due 2031 from RPI linked interest to fixed rate interest for periods maturing April 2017 to April 2019.
These transactions have been designated as cash flow hedges note 29.
Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and bear interest at a spread above the bank base rates.
Revolving credit facility In February 2014 the Group entered into a new syndicated committed revolving credit facility for 1,150 million replacing the 690 million facility maturing inOctober 2015.
The new 1,150 million facility is split into two tranches, a 500 million Facility A maturing in March 2017 and a 650 million Facility B maturing in March 2019.
At 15 March 2014, 200 million had been drawn under Facility A 2013: nil.
The revolving credit facility incurs commitment fees at market rates and drawdowns bear interest at a spread above LIBOR.
Bank loan due 2014 In February 2014 the Group issued prepayment notices for the early repayment in April 2014 of a 25 million loan due July 2014 and for the early repayment in May 2014 of a 40 million loan due May 2015.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 106 20 Borrowings continued Bank loans due 2015 Bank loans due 2015 comprise a 20 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest: a 50 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 45 million floating rate loan: a US$69 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan and a 40 million loan due March 2015 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 34 million floating rate loan.
A 50 million loan due June 2015 at floating rates of interest was swapped into a fixed rate loan.
The 50 million loan and associated interest rate swap have been designated as a cash flow hedge.
In February 2014, the Group prepaid a 54 million amortising loan due May 2015 without penalty.
Bank loans due 2016 Bank loans due 2016 comprise a 50 million loan due September 2016 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 44 million floating rate loan.
Bank loans due 2017 Bank loans due 2017 comprise a US$100 million loan due March 2017 at floating rates of interest swapped into a 63 million fixed rate loan.
The US$100 million loan and associated cross currency swap have been designated as a cash flow hedge.
In February 2014, the Group prepaid a 45 million loan due February 2017 without penalty.
Bank loans due 2018 In February 2014, the Group prepaid a 23 million amortising bank loan due June 2018 without penalty.
Convertible bond due 2014 In July 2009, the Group issued 190 million of unsecured convertible bonds due July 2014.
The bonds pay a coupon of 4.25 per cent payable semi-annually.
Each bond is convertible into ordinary shares of J Sainsbury plc at any time up to 9 July 2014 at a current conversion price of 405 pence.
The net proceeds of the convertible bond have been split into a liability component of 166 million and an equity component of 24 million.
The equity component represents the fair value of the embedded option to convert the bond into ordinary shares of the Company.
2014 2013 m m Liability component as at the beginning of the financial year 184 179 Interest expense 14 14 Interest paid 8 8 1 Other 1 1 Liability component as at the end of the financial year 189 184 1 Other relates to fair value movements and fees.
Other loans due 2015 Other loans due 2015 comprise three non-bank fixed rate loans due March 2015 totalling 28 million swapped into a 23 million floating rate loan.
Finance lease obligations Present value of Present value of Minimum lease Minimum lease minimum lease minimum lease payments payments payments payments 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 35 27 27 21 In the second to fifth years inclusive 122 94 101 75 After five years 195 201 60 64 352 322 188 160 Less: future finance charges 164 162 Present value of lease obligations 188 160 Disclosed as: Current 27 21 Non-current 161 139 188 160 Finance leases have effective interest rates ranging from 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent 2013: 2.4 per cent to 9.0 per cent.
The average remaining lease term is 68years 2013: 69 years.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 107 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Deferred taxation The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the financial year, prior to the offsetting of the balances within the same tax jurisdiction, are shown below.
Accelerated Retirement capital Fair value Rolled over benefit Share-based allowances Capital losses movements capital gains obligations payment Other Total Group m m m m m m m m At 17 March 2013 214 49 36 100 48 19 43 277 Acquisition of subsidiary note 37 4 4 Credit charge to income statement 12 6 11 22 2 2 19 Charge credit to equity or other comprehensive income 8 41 3 30 Rate change adjustment to income statement 26 7 15 13 2 6 51 Rate change adjustment to equity 6 22 16 At 15 March 2014 176 48 34 96 58 12 39 227 At 18 March 2012 Restated 193 57 37 101 15 12 40 317 Charge credit to income statement 39 4 7 3 5 7 49 Charge credit to equity or other comprehensive income 2 61 3 62 Rate change adjustment to income statement 18 4 8 7 1 4 32 Rate change adjustment to equity 3 8 5 At 16 March 2013 Restated 214 49 36 100 48 19 43 277 2014 2013 Group m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 345 393 Total deferred income tax assets 118 116 Net deferred income tax liability recognised in non-current liabilities 227 277 Capital Fair value Rolled over losses movements capital gains Total Company m m m m At 17 March 2013 29 1 29 1 Charge to income statement 1 1 Rate change adjustment to income statement 4 4 At 15 March 2014 25 25 At 18 March 2012 32 1 32 1 Rate change adjustment to income statement 3 3 At 16 March 2013 29 1 29 1 2014 2013 Company m m Total deferred income tax liabilities 25 29 Total deferred income tax assets 25 30 Net deferred income tax asset 1 Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred income tax assets and the deferred income tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 108 22 Provisions Company Group Group disposal Group long Other Group Company disposal Company onerous leases provisions service awards provisions total onerous leases provision total m m m m m m m m At 17 March 2013 38 1 7 4 50 2 1 3 Acquired through business combinations 14 14 Additional provisions 1 16 17 1 1 Unused amounts reversed 1 1 Utilisation of provision 10 1 2 13 Amortisation of discount 1 1 2 At 15 March 2014 29 1 7 32 69 3 1 4 At 18 March 2012 48 17 7 72 2 17 19 Additional provisions 4 4 8 Unused amounts reversed 8 16 24 16 16 Utilisation of provision 8 8 Amortisation of discount 2 2 At 16 March 2013 38 1 7 4 50 2 1 3 Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Disclosed as: Current 40 11 2 1 Non-current 29 39 2 2 69 50 4 3 The onerous lease provision covers residual lease commitments of up to an average of 29 years 2013: 26 years, after allowance for existing or anticipated sublet rental income.
The disposal provision was released during the prior year as any potential liability arising is no longer considered probable.
Long service awards are accrued over the period the service is provided by the employee.
The other provisions of 32 million 2013: 4 million include 14 million of provisions acquired with Sainsburys Bank, of which 6 million relate to potential customer redress in respect of Card Protection Plan insurance and similar products and 4 million to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme levy.
Additional provisions of 16 million included within other provisions mainly include a commercial item for which we intend to defend our position.
23 Called up share capital and share premium account 2014 2013 2014 2013 Group and Company million million m m Called up share capital Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares 1,907 1,893 545 541 Share premium account Share premium 1,091 1,075 The movements in the called up share capital and share premium accounts are set out below: Share Ordinary Ordinary premium shares shares account million m m At 17 March 2013 1,893 541 1,075 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 14 4 16 At 15 March 2014 1,907 545 1,091 At 18 March 2012 1,883 538 1,061 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 10 3 14 At 16 March 2013 1,893 541 1,075 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 109 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Capital redemption and other reserves Currency AvailableCash flow Convertible Total Capital translation for-sale hedge bond other redemption reserve assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Group m m m m m m At 17 March 2013 122 11 7 140 680 Currency translation differences 2 2 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 31 31 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Group 43 43 Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 4 4 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 15 March 2014 2 153 26 2 127 680 At 18 March 2012 Restated 1 107 7 12 111 680 Currency translation differences 1 1 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax : Group 13 13 Joint ventures note 14 2 2 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements net of tax : Group 22 22 Joint ventures note 14 1 1 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 5 5 Amortisation of convertible bond equity component 5 5 At 16 March 2013 Restated 122 11 7 140 680 AvailableConvertible Cash flow Total Capital for-sale bond hedge other redemption assets reserve reserve reserves reserve Company m m m m m At 17 March 2013 6 7 2 11 680 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 1 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 At 15 March 2014 6 2 1 7 680 At 18 March 2012 2 12 14 680 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements net of tax 4 4 Cash flow hedges effective portion of changes in fair value 1 1 Items reclassified from cash flow hedge reserve 1 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 At 16 March 2013 6 7 2 11 680 As part of the IAS 19 Revised restatement, remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes have been reclassified from other reserves to retained earnings.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative foreign exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations from their functional currency to the presentation currency of the parent.
The available-for-sale assets reserve represents the fair value gains and losses on the available-for-sale financial assets held by the Group.
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the cumulative effective fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges in the Group.
The convertible bond reserve represents the equity component of the 190 million convertible bond issued in July 2009.
The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of B shares.
Shareholders approved a 680 million return of share capital, by way of a B share scheme, at the Companys Extraordinary General Meeting on 12 July 2004.
The final redemption date for B Shares was 18 July 2007 and all transactions relating to the Bshares have now been completed.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 110 25 Retained earnings Group Group Company Group Profit and Total retained Retained Own shares loss account earnings earnings m m m m At 17 March 2013 21 3,422 3,401 1,952 Profit for the year 716 716 378 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 273 273 Dividends paid 320 320 320 Share-based payment net of tax 31 31 Shares vested 12 12 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 12 12 33 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 2 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 5 At 15 March 2014 9 3,569 3,560 2,046 At 18 March 2012 Restated 22 3,353 3,331 1,940 Profit for the year 602 602 284 Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 263 263 Dividends paid 308 308 308 Share-based payment net of tax 36 36 Shares vested 1 1 Allotted in respect of share option schemes 3 3 32 Utilised in respect of share option schemes 1 Amortisation of convertible bond equity 5 5 5 At 16 March 2013 Restated 21 3,422 3,401 1,952 Own shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP trusts 4 The Group owned 2,061,793 2013: 5,273,310 of its ordinary shares of 28 7 pence nominal value each.
At 15 March 2014, the total nominal value of the own shares was 1 million 2013: 2 million.
All shares 2013: all shares are held by an ESOP trust for the Executive Share Plans.
The ESOP trusts waive the rights to the dividends receivable in respect of the shareholder under the above schemes.
The cost of the own shares is deducted from equity in the Group financial statements.
The market value of the own shares at 15 March 2014 was 6 million 2013: 19 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 111 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Notes to the cash flow statements a Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations Restated Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Profit before tax 898 772 375 290 Net finance costs 139 134 23 27 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures note 14 28 24 Dividend income from subsidiaries 250 250 Operating profit 1,009 882 102 13 Adjustments for: Depreciation expense 536 504 Amortisation expense 15 13 Non-cash acquisition adjustments note 5 19 Sainsburys Bank impairment losses on loans and advances 2 Profit on disposal of properties 51 67 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 92 1 Impairment of intangible assets 1 Nectar VAT recovery 14 Foreign exchange differences 6 Share-based payments expense 33 33 1 Retirement benefit obligations 244 71 Provision for diminution in value of investment 135 2 Write down of advances to Group companies 237 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital 1,366 1,294 1 15 Changes in working capital: Increase in inventories 19 57 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 13 34 13 46 Increase in amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 23 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 118 87 22 22 Increase in amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 6 Increase decrease in provisions 2 22 2 16 Cash generated from used in operations 1,227 1,268 38 25 1 The adjus tment for retirement benefit obligations reflects the difference between the service charge of 34 million 2013: 59 million for the defined benefit scheme, defined benefit pension scheme expenses of 7 million 2013: 7 million, one-off past service credit of 158 million 2013: nil and the cash contributions of 127 million made by the Group to the defined benefit scheme 2013:137million.
b Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Cash in hand and bank balances 409 115 1 1 Money market funds and deposits 656 402 135 350 Treasury bills 527 Cash and bank balances 1,592 517 136 351 Bank overdrafts note 20 13 13 7 Net cash and cash equivalents 1,579 504 129 351 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 112 27 Analysis of net debt Adjusted Group Sainsburys Group Group 1 2014 Bank 2014 2013 m m m m Non-current assets Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 34 Derivative financial instruments 28 1 27 47 65 1 64 81 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 1,225 367 517 Derivative financial instruments 49 49 91 1,641 1,225 416 608 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 13 13 13 Borrowings 494 494 131 Finance leases 27 27 21 Derivative financial instruments 65 65 65 599 599 230 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 2,089 2,089 2,478 Finance leases 161 161 139 Derivative financial instruments 21 6 15 4 2,271 6 2,265 2,621 Total net debt 1,164 1,220 2,384 2,162 1 The Groups definition of net debt includes the cost of acquiring Sainsburys Bank, but excludes Sainsburys Banks own net debt balances.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2014 2013 m m Net debt at beginning of the year 2,162 1,980 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1,075 235 Elimination of net increase in Sainsburys Bank cash and cash equivalents 1,225 2 Net decrease in borrowings 1 27 2 Net increase in derivatives 26 Net increase of obligations under finance leases 28 17 Fair value movements 45 17 Net debt at the end of the year 2,384 2,162 2 Excluding fair value and Sainsburys Bank derivative movements.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 113 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity risk and capital risk.
Financial risk management is managed by a central treasury department in accordance with policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
The risk management policies are designed to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance by identifying financial exposures and setting appropriate risk limits and controls.
Financial risk management with respect to Sainsburys Bank is separately managed by the Banks Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO reporting to the Sainsburys Banks Board Risk Committee.
The risks are more fully described in the Sainsburys Bank section below.
The Group uses forward contracts and options to hedge foreign exchange and commodity exposures and interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups treasury policy which prohibits the use of derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group could be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due at a reasonable price.
The principal operational cash flow of the Group is largely stable and predictable reflecting the low business risk profile of the food retail sector.
Cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist management in identifying future liquidity requirements.
The Groups liquidity policy sets a minimum funding headroom of 300 million in excess of forecast net debt over a rolling 12 month time horizon.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a core of long-dated borrowings, pre-funding future cash flow commitments and holding adequate standby credit facilities.
Short term and seasonal funding is sourced from the Groups revolving credit facility and the wholesale inter-bank money market where interest is charged at various spreads above LIBOR.
In February 2014 the Group entered into a new syndicated committed revolving credit facility for 1,150 million replacing the 690 million facility maturing in October 2015.
The new 1,150 million facility is split into two tranches, a 500 million Facility A maturing in March 2017 anda 650 million Facility B maturing in March 2019.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
Theamounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows or an estimate of cash flows in respect of floating interest rate liabilities.
Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 15 March 2014 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans: Loan due 2018 127 130 846 1 Loan due 2031 63 65 202 1,004 Unsecured loans: Bank overdraft 13 2 Revolving credit facility 2 2 203 2 Bank loans due 2014 70 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 99 93 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 2 2 62 Convertible bond due 2014 194 3 Other loans due 2015 25 2 Finance lease obligations 36 33 91 195 Trade and other payables 2,665 10 5 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,543 231 75 Derivative contracts net settled Commodity contracts 1 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 3 6 10 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 1 Derivative contracts gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 405 40 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 389 40 Commodity contracts outflow 13 13 39 74 Commodity contracts inflow 12 13 40 80 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 110 50 145 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 105 46 133 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 114 28 Financial risk management continued Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Group m m m m At 16 March 2013 Non-derivative financial liabilities Secured loans Loan due 2018 124 127 401 575 1 Loan due 2031 61 63 202 1,101 Unsecured loans Bank overdraft 13 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loans due 2015 29 128 157 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 45 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 2 Bank loans due 2018 4 4 12 4 Convertible bond due 2014 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 26 2 Finance lease obligations 27 25 69 201 Trade and other payables 2,702 Derivatives net settled Commodity contracts 1 1,4 Interest rate swaps in hedging relationships 10 11 27 1 4 Other interest rate swaps 1 1 3 Derivatives gross settled 3 Foreign exchange forwards outflow 374 56 3 3 Foreign exchange forwards inflow 388 57 3 Commodity contracts outflow 6 6 18 29 Commodity contracts inflow 6 6 20 32 3,4 Cross currency swaps outflow 9 110 161 3,4 Cross currency swaps inflow 7 112 160 Less than One to Two to More than one year two years five years five years Company m m m m At 15 March 2014 Bank overdraft 7 2 Revolving credit facility 2 2 203 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 99 93 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 43 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 2 2 62 Convertible bond due 2014 194 3 Other loans due 2015 25 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,607 51 806 Other payables 30 At 16 March 2013 2 Bank loan due 2014 25 2,3 Bank loan due 2015 23 123 112 2,3 Bank loans due 2016 1 1 45 2,3 Bank loans due 2017 3 3 117 2 Bank loans due 2018 4 4 12 4 Convertible bond due 2014 8 194 3 Other loans due 2015 1 26 2 Amounts owed to Group entities 4,634 112 316 584 Other payables 57 Assumptions: 1 Ca sh flows relating to debt and swaps linked to inflation rates have been calculated using an RPI of 2.8 per cent for the year ended 15 March 2014 and 3.1 per cent for future years 2013: RPI of 3.9 per cent for the year ended 16 March 2013 and 3.3 per cent for future years.
2 Ca sh flows relating to debt bearing a floating interest rate have been calculated using prevailing interest rates at 15 March 2014 and 16 March 2013.
3 Ca sh flows in foreign currencies have been translated using spot rates at 15 March 2014 and 16 March 2013.
4 The sw ap rate which matches the remaining term of the interest rate swap at 15 March 2014 has been used to calculate the floating rate cash flows over the life of the interest rate swaps shown above 2013: 16 March 2013.
5 Ca sh flows relating to amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers are calculated using contractual terms and interest rates for fixed rate products.
Where balances are contractually repayable on demand, behavioural assumptions are applied to estimate the interest payable on those balances.
These are shown as due within one year.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Further information relating to liquidity risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the Groups holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables, loans and advances to customers.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 4,897 million 2013: 1,188 million, equivalent to the Groups total financial assets and of this amount 3,965 million relates to Sainsburys Bank.
The Group sets counterparty limits for each of its banking and investment counterparties based on relative credit ratings but with minimum long-term credit ratings of BBB from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Baa1 from Moodys or, in the case of sterling liquidity funds, AAAm from Standard & Poors and Fitch or Aaa MR1 from Moodys.
The table below analyses the Groups cash and cash equivalents by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash, cash in transit, cash at central bank and cash at ATMs: Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Financial institutions Money market funds AAAm Aaa 367 322 60 270 Financial institutions Money market deposits AA Aa1 to A A2 289 80 75 80 UK Government Treasury Bills AA Aa1 to A A2 527 Management does not expect any losses arising from non-performance of deposit counterparties.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange options, forward contracts and commodity contracts for difference are used by the Group to hedge interest rate, foreign currency and fuel exposures.
The table below analyses the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets by credit exposure, excluding any collateral held.
Group Group Company Company 2014 2013 2014 2013 Counterparty Long-term rating m m m m Interest rate swaps AA Aa1 to A A2 49 77 47 77 Interest rate swaps A A3- to BBB Baa1 24 36 24 36 FX forward contracts AA Aa1 to A A2 1 16 FX forward contracts A A3- to BBB Baa1 4 Commodity contracts AA Aa1 to A A2 1 Further information relating to counterparty credit risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are subject to counterparty offsetting or a master netting agreement.
Themaster netting agreements regulate settlement amounts in the event either party defaults on their obligations.
Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts Balances subject to a recognised financial Amounts offset in recognised in the contractual right of Cash collateral assets and liabilities the balance sheet balance sheet offset pledged Net amounts Group m m m m m m At 15 March 2014 Derivative financial assets 77 77 1 17 59 Derivative financial liabilities 86 86 1 85 Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 1,592 7 45 1,540 Bank overdrafts 13 13 7 6 Trade and other payables 1,005 144 861 861 565 144 709 62 647 At 16 March 2013 Derivative financial assets 138 138 1 47 90 Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 1 68 Cash and cash equivalents 517 517 517 Bank overdrafts 13 13 13 Trade and other payables 1,052 128 924 924 479 128 351 47 398 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 116 28 Financial risk management continued Amounts not offset in balance sheet Gross amounts of Net amounts Balances subject to a recognised financial Amounts offset in recognised in the contractual right of Cash collateral assets and liabilities the balance sheet balance sheet offset pledged Net amounts Company m m m m m m At 15 March 2014 Derivative financial assets 71 71 16 55 Derivative financial liabilities 57 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 136 136 136 Bank overdrafts 7 7 7 143 143 16 127 At 16 March 2013 Derivative financial assets 113 113 1 47 65 Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 1 68 Cash and cash equivalents 351 351 351 395 395 47 348 The Group holds certain financial derivatives which are subject to credit support agreements.
Under these agreements cash collateral is posted by one party to the other party should the fair value of the financial derivative exceed a pre-agreed level.
At 15 March 2014, the Group held 17 million of collateral against financial derivatives 2013: 47 million.
Sainsburys Bank had a 45 million reverse repo transaction, which was fully collateralised by UK Gilts.
The Group also operates a cash pooling arrangement and collective net overdraft facility with its main clearing bank.
At 15 March 2014, the Group had a 7million overdraft 2013: nil under this facility.
Market risk a Currency risk Currency risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in exchange rates impacting the Groups supply contracts denominated in currencies other than pound sterling.
The Groups currency risk policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating exchange rates on the Groups income statement by requiring anticipated foreign currency cash flows to be hedged.
The future cash flows, which may be either contracted or un-contracted, are hedged on a layered basis from 20 per cent to 80 per cent using forward contracts and options.
The Group also has exposure to currency risk on balances held on foreign currency denominated bank accounts, which may arise due to short-term timing differences on maturing hedges and underlying supplier payments.
The Group considers that a ten per cent movement in exchange rates against sterling is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The impact of a ten per cent movement in the exchange rate of US dollar and euro versus sterling at the balance sheet date, with all other variables held constant, is summarised in the table below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Change in Change in Change in exchange Change in exchange exchange rate impact exchange rate impact rate impact on cash flow rate impact on cash flow on post-tax hedge reserve on post-tax hedge reserve profit -10% -10% profit -10% -10% m m m m USD GBP 2 2 29 36 1 1 28 34 EUR GBP 10 12 13 15 b Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk of increased costs or lower income arising from unexpected movements in interest rates and inflation rates impacting on the Groups borrowing and investment portfolios.
The Groups interest rate policy seeks to limit the impact of fluctuating interest and inflation rates by maintaining a diversified mix of fixed rate, floating rate and variable capped rate liabilities.
Interest on financial instruments is classified as fixed rate where interest re-set on the borrowings is greater than 12 months: floating rate where interest is re-set at intervals of one year or less and variable capped rate if interest is re-set at intervals of one year or less and the nominal interest rate is subject to a cap.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued The mix of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date were as follows: Variable Fixed Floating Capped Total m m m m At 15 March 2014 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 69 69 Amounts due from Sainsbury's Bank customers 1,948 627 2,575 Cash and cash equivalents 396 1,196 1,592 Borrowings 1,182 515 899 2,596 Finance lease obligations 123 65 188 Amounts due to Sainsbury's Bank customers 619 2,928 3,547 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 943 943 Cross currency swaps 39 39 Inflation linked swaps 300 300 Total 862 634 599 2,095 At 16 March 2013 Interest bearing available-for-sale financial assets 34 34 Cash and cash equivalents 113 404 517 Borrowings 1,248 462 912 2,622 Finance lease obligations 86 74 160 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 221 221 Cross currency swaps 39 39 Inflation linked swaps 250 250 Total 1,289 280 662 2,231 Further information relating to interest rate risk in Sainsburys Bank is more fully described in the section on Sainsburys Bank financial risk factors below.
i Cash flow sensitivity for floating rate instruments The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in interest rates is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of floating rate balances to a change of 100 basis points in the interest rate or such lesser amount as would result in a zero rate of interest at the balance sheet date is shown below.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on cash post-tax cash flow post-tax flow hedge profit hedge reserve profit reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 3 2 2 2 2 4 2 ii Cash flow sensitivity for variable capped rate liabilities The Group holds 44 million of capped floating rate borrowings 2013: 44 million and 855 million of capped inflation-linked borrowings 2013: 868 million of which 300 million 2013: 250 million have been swapped into fixed rate borrowings using inflation rate swaps maturing April 2017 to April 2018.
The Group has also entered into 100 million 2013: 50 million of forward starting inflation rate swaps maturing April 2018 to April 2019.
The Group considers that a 100 basis point movement in the relevant floating rate is a reasonable measure of volatility.
The sensitivity of variable capped balances to a change of 100 basis points in the relevant rate at the balance sheet date is shown below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on cash post-tax cash flow post-tax flow hedge profit hedge reserve profit reserve m m m m Change in floating rate -100bps 4 4 13 13 5 5 12 12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 118 28 Financial risk management continued Commodity risk Commodity risk is the risk of increased costs arising from unexpected movements in commodity prices impacting the Groups own use consumption of electricity, gas and fuel.
The Groups Energy Price Risk Committee seeks to limit the impact by requiring forecast purchases of power and fuel to be hedged.
The Group hedges own use consumption electricity and gas exposures with forward purchases under flexible purchasing arrangements with its suppliers.
The Group uses financial derivatives to hedge fuel exposures on a layered basis using contracts for difference.
The Group considers a ten per cent movement in commodity prices a reasonable measure of volatility.
A ten per cent 2013: ten per cent change in the fair value of the power, diesel and gasoil price at the balance sheet date would have increased or decreased the cash flow equity reserve by 3 million 2013: 4 million.
Capital risk management The Group defines capital as total equity plus net debt.
The Boards capital objective is to maintain a strong and efficient capital base to support the Groups strategic objectives, provide optimal returns for shareholders and safeguard the Groups status as a going concern.
There has been no change to capital risk management policies during the year.
The Board monitors a broad range of financial metrics including return on capital employed, balance sheet gearing and fixed charge cover.
The Board can manage the Groups capital structure by diversifying the debt portfolio, adjusting the size and timing of dividends paid to shareholders, recycling capital through sale and leaseback transactions, issuing new shares or repurchasing shares in the open market and flexing capital expenditure.
From time to time the Company purchases its own shares in the market for the purpose of issuing shares under the Groups share option programmes: however the Group does not operate a defined share buy-back plan.
The Board has a policy to maintain the underlying earnings cover for the ordinary dividend at a minimum of 1.5 times and to increase dividend cover to two times over the medium term.
Part of the Groups capital risk management is to ensure compliance with the general covenants and financial covenants included in the Groups various borrowing facilities.
There have been no breaches of covenant in the financial year ended 15 March 2014.
For information relating to Sainsburys Bank capital risk management see note 38.
Sainsburys Bank The principal financial risks faced by Sainsburys Bank relate to liquidity risk, counterparty credit risk, market risk and interest rate risk.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank is unable to meet its financial commitments as they fall due without an adverse impact on funding costs or profitability.
The Banks liquidity risk management framework complies with the standards set out by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and sets a liquidity buffer above the minimum PRA requirements.
The Bank seeks to maintain a funding and liquidity profile sufficient to enable it to meet its financial obligations under stressed market conditions.
In meeting these limits the Bank maintains a stock of high quality liquid assets that can be readily sold to meet the Banks obligations to depositors and other creditors.
The portfolio of assets is managed on a daily basis.
In addition, the Bank prepares both long-term and short-term forecasts to assess liquidity requirements.
Short-term forecasting covers a rolling 12 month period and takes into account factors such as ATM cash management, investment maturities and customer deposit patterns and balances.
Counterparty credit risk Counterparty credit risk is the risk of a financial loss arising from a retail customer or wholesale counterparty default or non-performance in respect of the Banks holdings of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets, deposits with banks, investments in marketable securities, trade and other receivables and loans and advances to customers.
Credit risk in respect of retail lending customers is managed through automated credit decision techniques using both scorecards and policy rules for new applications.
In addition, behavioural scoring is used to assess the conduct of customers accounts on an ongoing basis.
Underwriting is undertaken by specialist teams in operational areas to complement these processes.
The Retail Credit Risk Committee ensures that appropriate policies are established and adhered to and this is subject to further oversight from the Board Risk Committee.
Internal Audit teams carry out regular reviews of credit risk processes and policies are reviewed and re-approved on an annual basis.
The credit exposure relating to off balance sheet items mainly undrawn loan commitments to customers, was 58 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Financial risk management continued Credit quality per class of financial asset Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are summarised as follows: 2014 2013 m m Impaired 103 Past due but not impaired 16 Neither past due nor impaired 2,540 Gross 2,659 Less: allowance for impairment 83 Less: hedging fair value adjustment 1 Net book value 2,575 Unsecured Secured lending lending Total m m m Past due and impaired Less than three months, but impaired 2 2 Past due three to six months 7 1 8 Past due six to 12 months Past due over 12 months 1 1 Recoveries 92 92 Possession Total gross impaired loans 101 2 103 Past due but not impaired Past due less than three months but not impaired 13 3 16 Total gross past due but not impaired 13 3 16 Neither past due nor impaired Not impaired 2,486 54 2,540 Total gross neither past due nor impaired 2,486 54 2,540 Total gross amount due 2,600 59 2,659 Mortgages held over residential properties represent the only collateral held by the Bank for retail lending exposures.
The fair value of collateral held for impaired secured loans and secured loans past due but not impaired was 10 million.
The fair value of collateral held against possession cases was nil.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market factors such as interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
The Bank hedges all such risks within limits set by the Board Risk Committee.
Exposures are managed and monitored using a variety of sensitivity measures to minimise volatility of earnings and economic value, taking into account expected future business flows.
Interest rate risk The Bank offers lending and saving products with varying interest rate features and maturities which create potential interest rate risk exposures.
Short-term exposures under 12 months are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity to a variety of movement in interest rates.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long-term are controlled through position and sensitivity limits, predominantly using Economic Value Equity EVE measures for risk management purposes.
Where residual balance sheet exposures exist, interest rate swaps are the primary hedging instrument used to mitigate that risk.
The Bank does not operate a trading book.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 120 29 Financial instruments The fair value of derivative financial instruments has been disclosed in the balance sheet as follows: Group Company 2014 2014 2013 2013 2014 2014 2013 2013 Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m m m m m Non-current 28 21 47 4 23 10 41 4 Current 49 65 91 65 48 47 72 65 Total 77 86 138 69 71 57 113 69 The fair value and notional amount of financial derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2014 2013 Group Asset Asset Liability Liability Asset Asset Liability Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 26 548 895 35 211 Cross currency swaps 23 1 23 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 50 1 50 Cross currency swaps 10 90 2 63 Inflation rate swaps 5 400 300 Foreign exchange forward contract 1 126 17 323 19 408 28 Commodity contracts 1 28 2 31 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 47 397 44 393 72 391 65 331 Cross currency swaps 9 167 3 78 3 89 Commodity contracts 3 13 4 5 Total 77 1,084 86 2,369 138 1,510 69 498 2014 2013 Company Asset Asset Liability Liability Asset Asset Liability Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 24 211 35 211 Cross currency swaps 23 1 23 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps 50 1 50 Cross currency swaps 4 63 2 63 Derivatives not in a formal hedging relationship Interest rate swaps 47 391 44 331 72 391 65 331 Cross currency swaps 9 167 3 78 3 89 Total 71 602 57 634 113 766 69 470 Fair value hedges Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 234 million 2013: 234 million portfolio of interest rate and cross currency swaps to hedge a portion of fixed rate borrowings.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The notional principal amount of one of the interest rate swaps amortises from 211 million to 111 million from April 2016 to April 2018.
Sainsburys Bank holds a 1,232 million portfolio of interest rate swaps to hedge the fixed-rate interest income on amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Bank receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
For the year to 15 March 2014, the fair value movement in the Groups interest rate swaps resulted in a charge to the income statement of 13 million 2013: 3 million charge.
The fair value movement in the underlying fixed rate borrowings and amounts due from Sainsburys bank customers resulted in a credit to the income statement of 13 million 2013: 3 million credit.
Cash flow hedges Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 400 million 2013: 300 million portfolio of inflation rate swaps to hedge a portion of the inflation linked secured loan due 2031.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives annual RPI inflation subject to a cap at five per cent and floor at nil per cent and pays fixed rate interest.
The Group holds a 113 million 2013: 113 million portfolio of interest rate and cross currency swaps to hedge a 50 million fixed rate bank loan 2015 and a US$100 million fixed rate bank loan 2017.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Group receives floating rate interest and pays fixed rate interest.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 121 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Sainsburys Bank holds a 27 million portfolio of cross currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risks from cash flows arising on its euro denominated available for sale investment securities.
At 15 March 2014, an unrealised loss of 12 million 2013: 1 million gain is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the swaps in cash flow hedges.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next four years.
Foreign exchange forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge its future foreign currency trading liabilities.
At 15 March 2014 the Group had forward purchased 129 million 2013: 167 million and sold sterling at exchange rates ranging from 1.14 to 1.23 2013:1.15 to 1.27 with maturities from March 2014 to December 2015 2013: March 2013 to December 2015 and forward purchased US$533 million 2013: US$469 million and sold sterling at exchange rates ranging from 1.48 to 1.67 2013: 1.48 to 1.62 with maturities from March 2014 to June 2015 2013: March 2013 to April 2015.
At 15 March 2014, an unrealised loss of 13 million 2013: gain of 17 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the forward contracts.
This loss will be transferred to the income statement over the next 21 months.
During the year a charge to the income statement of 3 million was transferred from the cash flow hedge equity reserve and included in cost of sales 2013: 3 million credit.
Commodity forward contracts The Group holds a portfolio of commodity forward contracts to hedge its own use fuel consumption over the next 12 months.
At 15 March 2014, an unrealised loss of 1 million 2013: gain of 1 million is included in other comprehensive income in respect of the commodity contracts.
This gain will be transferred to the income statement over the next 12 months.
Derivatives not in a hedge relationship Some of the Groups derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or, where the gains or losses on the derivative contract economically offset the underling hedged item, are not designated in a hedging relationship.
Interest rate and cross currency swaps The Group holds a 331 million 2013: 331 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss to convert floating rate obligations into fixed rates.
Offsetting these swaps the Group holds a 391million 2013: 391 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss, to convert fixed rate obligations into floating rate interest.
Sainsburys Bank holds a 68 million portfolio of interest rate swaps at fair value through profit or loss.
Under the terms of the swaps, the Bank receives fixed rate interest and pays floating rate interest.
The Group holds a 167 million 2013: 167 million portfolio of cross currency swaps at fair value through profit or loss to convert floating rate borrowings denominated in euro and US dollars into floating rate sterling borrowings.
Commodity forward contracts Commodity forward contracts at fair value through profit and loss relates to the Groups long-term fixed price power purchase agreements with independent producers.
Fair value Set out on the next page is a comparison of the carrying amount and the fair value of financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements at a value other than fair value.
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are based on prices available from the market on which the instruments are traded.
Where market values are not available, the fair values of financial assets and liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The fair values of short-term deposits, trade receivables, overdrafts and payables are assumed to approximate to their book values.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 122 29 Financial instruments continued Group Company Carrying Group Carrying Company 4 4 4 4 amount Fair value amount Fair value m m m m 2014 Financial assets Amounts owed by Group entities 2,651 3,233 Other receivables 273 273 3 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,575 2,582 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 5,290 5,385 1 Loans due 2018 956 1,053 Loans due 2031 855 1,013 Bank overdrafts 13 13 7 7 Revolving credit facility due 2017 200 200 200 200 Bank loans due 2014 69 75 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 188 188 188 188 Bank loans due 2016 42 42 42 42 Bank loans due 2017 60 60 60 60 Convertible bond due 2014 189 193 189 193 2 Other loans due 2015 24 24 24 24 Finance lease obligations 188 188 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,547 3,543 2013 Amounts owed by Group entities 2,461 3,207 Other receivables 168 156 55 43 Financial liabilities Amounts owed to Group entities 5,390 5,557 1 Loans due 2018 1,039 1,186 Loans due 2031 868 1,109 Bank overdrafts 13 13 Bank loans due 2014 25 25 25 25 Bank loans due 2015 291 303 246 249 Bank loans due 2016 43 43 43 43 Bank loans due 2017 111 111 111 111 Bank loans due 2018 23 23 23 23 Convertible bond due 2014 184 209 184 209 2 Other loans due 2015 25 25 25 25 Finance lease obligations 160 160 1 Includes 211 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2013: 211 million.
2 Includes 23 million accounted for as a fair value hedge 2013: 23 million.
3 Includes 1,232 million accounted for as a fair value hedge.
4 The prior year amounts owed by Group entities, amounts owed to Group entities and other receivables have been restated to include both the current and non-current balances.
The fair value of financial assets as disclosed in the table above at 15 March 2014 was 2,855 million 2013: 156 million.
The fair value of the financial assets has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of financial liabilities was 6,592 million 2013: 3,207 million.
193 million 2013: 209 million has been calculated using market values and are within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
6,399 million 2013: 2,998 million has been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 123 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurements recognised in the balance sheet The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are recognised at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are derived from quoted market prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date.
This level includes listed equity securities and debt instrument on public exchanges: Level 2 fair value measurements are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
The fair value of financial instruments is determined by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest rates: and Level 3 fair value measurements are derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Investment securities 32 32 Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Other financial assets 184 184 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 74 3 77 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 86 86 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Group m m m m 2013 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 34 34 Other financial assets 154 154 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 134 4 138 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m 2014 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 37 37 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 71 71 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 57 57 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Company m m m m 2013 Available-for-sale financial assets Interest bearing financial assets 34 34 Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative financial assets 113 113 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Derivative financial liabilities 69 69 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 124 29 Financial instruments continued Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets: Available-for-sale Commodity financial assets derivatives Total m m m Opening balance 154 4 158 In finance cost in the Group income statement 1 1 In other comprehensive income 30 30 Closing balance 184 3 187 The available-for-sale financial assets relate to the Groups beneficial interest in a property investment pool.
The net present value of the Groups interest in the various freehold reversions owned by the property investment pool has been derived by assuming a property growth rate of three per cent per annum 2013: three per cent and a discount rate of nine per cent 2013: ten per cent see note 15.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 0.5 per cent in the assumed rate of property rental growth and one per cent in the discount rate holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Change in Change in Change in Change in growth rate discount rate growth rate discount rate - 0.5% - 1.0% - 0.5% - 1.0% m m m m Available-for-sale assets 10 11 17 15 9 10 14 15 The Group has entered into several long-term fixed price Power Purchase agreements with independent producers.
Included within derivative financial assets is 3 million 2013: 4 million relating to these agreements.
The Group values its Power Purchase agreements at the net present value of the estimated future usage at the contracted fixed price less the market implied forward energy price discounted back at the prevailing swap rate.
The Group also makes an assumption regarding expected energy output based on the historical performance and the producers estimate of expected electricity output.
The sensitivity of this balance to changes of 20 per cent in the assumed rate of energy output and ten per cent in the implied forward energy prices holding other assumptions constant is shown below: 2014 2014 2013 2013 Change in Change in Change in electricity Change in electricity volume - forward price volume - forward price 20.0% - 10.0% 20.0% - 10.0% m m m m Derivative financial instruments 1 1 10 10 1 1 5 5 Financial assets and liabilities by category Set out below are the accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 15 March 2014 and 16 March 2013.
Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough used for financial receivables for-sale profit or loss hedging liabilities Total Group m m m m m m 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 1,592 1,592 Trade and other receivables 398 398 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 2,575 2,575 Available-for-sale financial assets 255 255 Trade and other payables 2,675 2,675 Current borrowings 534 534 Non-current borrowings 2,250 2,250 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers 3,547 3,547 Derivative financial instruments 3 6 9 4,565 255 3 6 9,006 4,195 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 517 517 Trade and other receivables 296 296 Available-for-sale financial assets 189 189 Trade and other payables 2,702 2,702 Current borrowings 165 165 Non-current borrowings 2,617 2,617 Derivative financial instruments 11 58 69 813 189 11 58 5,484 4,413 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 125 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Financial instruments continued Fair value Derivatives Other Loans and Availablethrough used for financial receivables for-sale profit or loss hedging liabilities Total Company m m m m m m 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 136 136 Trade and other receivables 2,651 2,651 Available-for-sale financial assets 37 37 Trade and other payables 5,320 5,320 Current borrowings 341 341 Non-current borrowings 394 394 Derivative financial instruments 6 20 14 2,787 37 6 20 6,055 3,217 2013 Cash and cash equivalents 351 351 Trade and other receivables 2,516 2,516 Available-for-sale financial assets 34 34 Trade and other payables 5,447 5,447 Current borrowings 24 24 Non-current borrowings 633 633 Derivative financial instruments 7 37 44 2,867 34 7 37 6,104 3,159 Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefit obligations relate to a defined benefit scheme, the Sainsburys Pension Scheme, the Scheme and an unfunded pension liability relating to senior employees.
The Scheme is governed by a Trustee board, and the assets of the Scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme is a Registered pension plan with HMRC, subject to UK legislation: and with oversight from the Pensions Regulator.
The governance of the Scheme is the responsibility of the Trustee: the Trustee comprises 11 Directors five selected from members, five appointed by the Company and one Independent Chairman.
In accordance with legislation, the Trustee consults with the Company regarding the Schemes investment strategy and agrees an appropriate funding plan with the Company.
The Scheme has three different benefit categories: Final Salary, Career Average and Cash Balance.
For Final Salary and Career Average members, benefits at retirement are determined by length of service and salary.
For Cash Balance members, benefits are determined by the accrued retirement account credits.
The Scheme was closed to new employees on 31 January 2002 and closed to future accrual on 28 September 2013.
A one-off past service credit has been recognised as a result as disclosed in note 3.
The assets of the Scheme are valued at bid price and are held separately from the Groups assets.
The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation, carried out by Towers Watson, at 17 March 2012 on the projected unit basis.
The results of this valuation were finalised in August 2013 and a recovery plan agreed.
Under the Schemes recovery plan, the Company will pay annual deficit contributions of 49 million per annum for eight consecutive financial years to 2020.
This plan is reviewed once every three years, with the next valuation effective date in March 2015.
The retirement benefit obligations at the year-end have been calculated by KPMG, as actuarial advisers to the Group, using the projected unit credit method and based on adjusting the position at 17 March 2012 for known events and changes in market conditions as allowed under IAS 19 Revised.
The unfunded pension liability is unwound when each employee reaches retirement and takes their pension from the Group payroll or is crystallised in the event of an employee leaving or retiring and choosing to take the provision as a one-off cash payment.
Sainsburys Property Scottish Limited Partnership Further to the funding plan agreed with the Schemes Trustees, on 17 June 2010 Sainsburys established the Sainsburys Property Scottish Partnership the Partnership with the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, properties to a fair value of 256 million were transferred to the Partnership.
On 25 March 2011, further properties to a fair value of 501 million were transferred to the Partnership.
Both transfers were effected via a 30 year sale and leaseback arrangement.
The Schemes interest in the Partnership entitles it to an annual distribution for 20 years to 2030.
The amount of this distribution is linked to the triennial actuarial valuation and will therefore vary once every three years.
The annual distribution in previous years has been approximately 35 million and for 2014 15 it is expected to be in the region of 32 million.
These contributions will be in addition to the Groups normal cash contributions paid to the Scheme annually.
The properties transferred to the Partnership will revert to Sainsburys ownership in 2030 in return for a cash payment equal to the amount of any remaining funding deficit on the Scheme at that time, up to a maximum of 600 million.
The Partnership is controlled by Sainsburys and its results are consolidated by the Group.
The Groups balance sheet, IAS 19 Revised deficit and income statement are unchanged by the establishment of the Partnership.
The investment held by the Scheme in the Partnership does not qualify as a plan asset for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements and is therefore not included within the fair value of plan assets.
The value of the properties transferred to the Partnership remains included within the Groups property, plant and equipment on the balance sheet.
In addition, the Group retains full operational flexibility to extend, develop and substitute the properties within the Partnership.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 126 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Present value of funded obligations 6,855 6,460 Fair value of plan assets 6,131 5,841 724 619 Present value of unfunded obligations 13 13 Retirement benefit obligations 737 632 Deferred income tax asset 58 48 Net retirement benefit obligations 679 584 The retirement benefit obligation and the associated deferred income tax balance are shown within different line items on the face of the balance sheet.
a Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Included within underlying profit before tax: Current service cost funded scheme 34 57 Past service cost 2 Included in employee costs note 7 34 59 Excluded from underlying profit before tax: 1 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 290 274 Interest income on plan assets 267 258 Total included in finance costs note 6 23 16 Defined benefit pension scheme expenses 7 7 2 Past service credit 158 Total excluded from underlying profit before tax note 3 128 23 Total income statement credit expense 94 82 1 Includes interest of nil for the unfunded pension scheme 2013: 1 million.
2 One-off items presented within note 3 also include compensation payments to defined contribution schemes of 10 million.
Of the expense recognised in operating profit, 21 million 2013: 41 million is included in cost of sales and 13 million 2013: 18 million is included in administrative expenses.
A past service credit of 158 million 2013: nil has been recognised in administrative expenses.
b Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of the retirement benefit obligations have been recognised as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 70 401 Actuarial losses arising from changes in: Demographic assumptions 22 1 Financial assumptions 416 648 Experience 20 70 Total actuarial losses 396 740 Total remeasurements 326 339 1 Includes nil for the unfunded pension scheme 2013: 3 million.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 127 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued c Valuations The movements in the funded retirement benefit obligations are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Beginning of year 6,460 5,531 Current service cost 34 57 Past service credit cost 158 2 Interest cost 290 273 Contributions by plan participants 3 6 Remeasurement losses 396 737 Benefits paid 170 146 End of year 6,855 6,460 The movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Restated 2014 2013 m m Beginning of year 5,841 5,192 Interest income on plan assets 267 258 Pension scheme expenses 7 7 Remeasurement gains 70 401 Contributions by employer 127 137 Contributions by plan participants 3 6 Benefits paid 170 146 End of year 6,131 5,841 The Groups expected contributions to the defined benefit scheme for the next financial year beginning 16 March 2014 are 86 million 2013: 134 million.
Actual contributions made by the Group during the financial year are lower than expected due to the closure of the Scheme to future accrual on 28 September 2013.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 % % Equities 29 37 Government bonds 6 3 Corporate bonds 36 38 Property 4 4 Other 25 18 100 100 The fair value of plan assets split between those which have a quoted market price in an active market and those which are unquoted is asfollows: 2014 2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m m m m Equities 1,592 209 1,801 1,913 241 2,154 Government bonds 355 355 181 181 Corporate bonds 2,173 57 2,230 2,254 8 2,246 Property 218 11 229 211 211 Other 644 872 1,516 423 626 1,049 4,982 1,149 6,131 4,982 859 5,841 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 128 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued d Assumptions The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2014 2013 % % Discount rate 4.25 4.60 Inflation rate RPI 3.40 3.45 Inflation rate CPI 2.40 2.55 Future salary increases n a 2.55 Future pension increases 2.15 3.20 2.15 3.25 The discount rate is based on the yield on AA-rated sterling corporate bonds appropriate to the term of the Schemes liabilities.
The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement age now 65 years for men and women, is as follows: 2014 2013 years years Male pensioner 22.6 22.6 Female pensioner 25.3 25.2 The life expectancy for the Scheme operated at the balance sheet date for a future pensioner at normal retirement age is as follows: 2014 2013 years years Male pensioner 24.4 24.3 Female pensioner 27.2 27.2 The base mortality assumptions are based on the SAPS tables, with adjustments to reflect the Schemes population, with future improvements based on the CMI 2011 projection with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25 per cent per annum.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 21 years 2013: 21 years.
e Sensitivities An increase of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 706 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 787 million.
An increase of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 474 million.
A decrease of 0.5 per cent in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligations by 444 million.
An increase of one year to the life expectancy would increase the retirement benefit obligations by 165 million.
The sensitivities are based on managements best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change.
The sensitivities are calculated using the same methodology used to calculate the retirement benefit obligation, by considering the change in the retirement benefit obligation for a given change in assumption.
The net retirement benefit obligation is the difference between the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the fair value of plan assets.
There has been no change in the calculation methodology since the prior period.
f Other disclosures The Scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or Scheme specific risks.
The Trustees investment strategy mitigates some of these risks.
Market investment risk is addressed by diversification across asset classes and managers within those assets classes.
With regards to currency risk, the Trustees hedge around 75 per cent of the Schemes non-sterling exposures.
In addition, the Trustee has a framework in place to hedge a proportion of the Schemes interest rate and inflation exposures.
This framework is managed by investing in both physical and, for efficiency, derivative investments: and currently has a target to hedge 50 per cent of the interest rate and inflation linked liabilities.
The target hedge level is kept under review and any change would be in consultation with the Company.
The Trustee does not currently hedge the longevity risk, although prudent assumptions are made regarding anticipated longevity for the purposes of the actuarial valuation and Recovery Plan.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 129 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments The Group recognised 33 million 2013: 33 million of employee costs note 7 related to share-based payment transactions made during the financial year.
Of these, nil 2013: nil were cash-settled.
National insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payments transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
At 15 March 2014, the carrying amount of national insurance contributions payable was 7 million 2013: 9 million of which 1 million 2013: 2 million was in respect of vested grants.
The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes as set out below: a Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE The Group operates a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all UK employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is an approved HMRC Scheme and was established in 1980.
Under the SAYE scheme, participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year or five-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their leaving.
At 15 March 2014, UK employees held 21,445 five-year savings contracts 2013: 21,773 in respect of options over 20.4 million shares 2013: 22.3 million and 24,950 three-year savings contracts 2013: 37,154 in respect of options over 27.8 million shares 2013: 24.8 million.
A reconciliation of option movements is shown below: 2014 2013 2014 Weighted 2013 Weighted Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price million pence million pence Outstanding at beginning of year 47.1 261 45.7 263 Granted 13.7 332 13.9 267 Forfeited 5.4 277 6.9 278 Exercised 6.9 266 5.6 270 Expired 0.2 257 Outstanding at end of year 48.3 279 47.1 261 Exercisable at end of year 3.3 260 2.9 303 The weighted average share price during the period for options exercised over the year was 346 pence 2013: 334 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 15 March 2014 was 2.3 years 2013: 2.4 years.
Details of options at 15 March 2014 are set out below: Options Options outstanding outstanding Exercise price 2014 2013 Date of grant Date of expiry pence million million 20 December 2007 5 year period 31 August 2013 331 1.5 17 December 2008 5 year period 31 August 2014 224 1.7 4.6 10 December 2009 3 year period 31 August 2013 273 1.4 10 December 2009 5 year period 31 August 2015 273 3.1 3.3 10 December 2010 3 year period 31 August 2014 297 1.6 4.2 10 December 2010 5 year period 31 August 2016 297 3.3 3.6 9 December 2011 3 year period 31 August 2015 238 8.7 9.8 9 December 2011 5 year period 31 August 2017 238 4.7 5.1 12 December 2012 3 year period 31 August 2016 267 8.0 9.4 12 December 2012 5 year period 31 August 2018 267 3.7 4.2 11 December 2013 5 year period 31 August 2017 332 9.5 11 December 2013 5 year period 31 August 2019 332 4.0 48.3 47.1 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 130 31 Share-based payments continued Options granted during the year were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2014 2013 Share price at grant date pence 415 333 Exercise price pence 332 267 Expected volatility 3 year period % 18.8 19.2 5 year period % 20.8 29.5 Option life 3 year period years 3.2 3.2 5 year period years 5.2 5.2 Expected dividends expressed as dividend yield % 4.5 5.1 Risk-free interest rate 3 year period % 2.2 1.1 5 year period % 3.5 2.0 Fair value per option 3 year period pence 74 50 5 year period pence 87 73 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three or five years, as appropriate, on the assumption that 25 per cent of options will be cancelled over the service period as employees leave the SAYE Scheme.
b Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006, shares are conditionally awarded to the senior managers in the Company.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grades.
The awards granted between 2006 and 2011 will vest if the threshold levels of two co-dependent performance conditions Return on Capital Employed ROCE and growth in cash flow per share, are achieved over the three-year performance period.
The award granted in 2012 and 2013 is assessed against ROCE, cumulative underlying cash flow from operations and relative sales measured against the IGD Index, with an Earnings Per Share gateway.
The core award can grow by up to four times, dependent on the level of performance.
Straight-line vesting will apply if performance falls between two points.
Awards are structured as nil cost options.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and 50per cent of the award will be released.
Subject to participants remaining in employment for a further year, the balance will then be released one year after the vesting date.
Options granted to acquire the award of shares will expire two years from the vesting date.
Dividends will accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
To achieve the maximum multiplier of four, the following criteria are required to be met: Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Date of conditional award Cash flow per share % Return on capital employed % 24 June 2009 15 15 21 June 2010 15 15 19 May 2011 12 15 Targets to achieve maximum multiplier Date of conditional award Cumulative underlying cash flow Return on capital employed % Relative sales 17 May 2012 6,500m 12 Index 1% p. a.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2014 2013 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 9.1 9.6 Conditionally allocated 1.9 2.1 Forfeited 0.4 0.7 Released to participants 3.6 1.9 Outstanding at end of year 7.0 9.1 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 15 March 2014 was 1.3 years 2013: 1.0 years.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 131 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments continued Details of shares conditionally allocated at 15 March 2014 are set out below: 2014 2013 Date of conditional award million million 28 May 2008 0.5 24 June 2009 0.1 2.0 21 June 2010 1.6 3.0 19 May 2011 1.5 1.6 17 May 2012 1.9 2.0 16 May 2013 1.9 7.0 9.1 Options to acquire the award of shares were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 2014 2013 Share price at grant date pence 384 310 Expected volatility % 15.3 23.1 Option life years 4.2 4.2 Risk-free interest rate % 1.6 1.4 Fair value per option pence 384 310 The expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the Groups share price for the period immediately prior to the date of grant of award, over the period identical to the vesting period of the award, adjusted for managements view of future volatility of the share price.
In March 2013, the three-year performance targets were met achieving a multiplier of 1.75 2012: 1.70.
During the year, a total number of 2.9 million shares were released to employees as a result of achieving the performance target and 7.4 million options were exercised.
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised was 378 pence 2013: 310 pence.
c Deferred Annual Bonus Plan The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, applied to the top levels of management including Executive Directors and comprised around 40 participants in total.
The first deferral took place in June 2007, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 24 March 2007.
The second deferral took place in June 2008, in respect of the bonus awards for the financial year ended 22 March 2008.
The third and final deferral took place in June 2009, in respect to bonus awards for the financial year ended 21 March 2009.
The Plan measured the Companys TSR performance over a three-year period against a bespoke UK and European retail comparator group comprising: Ahold, Carrefour, Casino, Delhaize, DSG International, Home Retail Group, Kingfisher, Marks & Spencer, Metro, Morrisons, Next and Tesco.
Alliance Boots was removed from the comparator group following its fide-listing.
Up to two matched shares could be awarded for each share deferred depending on the extent to which the TSR measure is achieved.
No shares were awarded for below median performance, and the full match only applied where the Company achieved first place within the comparator group.
At median position the match was 0.5 shares for each deferred bonus share and the share match was pro-rated at every position between median and first place.
To the extent that the performance condition was met at the end of the three-year performance period, the matched shares would be added to the deferred bonus shares.
The deferred bonus shares and half of the matched shares could be accessed immediately following the performance test, while the remainder were held over for a further year.
Dividends or their equivalents accrued on shares that vested.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2014 2013 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 0.1 0.5 Exercised 0.1 0.4 Outstanding at end of year 0.1 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 15 March 2014 was 0.0 years 2013: 0.0 years.
Details of shares conditionally allocated at 15 March 2014 are set out below: 2014 2013 million million 20 June 2008 0.1 0.1 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 132 31 Share-based payments continued d Deferred Share Award The Deferred Share Award targets a diverse range of business critical financial and strategic scorecard measures.
These are intended to reward the top 45 managers in the Company, including Executive Directors, for driving the short-term objectives that will directly lead to building the sustainable, long-term growth of the Company.
Share-based awards will be made to participants subject to performance against a basket of measures.
At least 50 per cent of the award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The balance will be based on measures which will assess the Companys performance relative to its competitors as well as key strategic goals.
Performance against the target is measured over one financial year, but any shares awarded are deferred for a further two years to ensure that managements interests continue to be aligned with those of shareholders.
The shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on the shares that vest in the form of additional shares.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2014 2013 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 3.6 2.4 Granted 1.3 1.5 Exercised 2.3 0.3 Outstanding at end of year 2.6 3.6 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2014 2013 million million 20 May 2010 1.0 19 May 2011 1.2 17 May 2012 1.3 1.4 16 May 2013 1.3 2.6 3.6 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 15 March 2014 was 1.5 years 2013: 1.1 years.
e Bonus Share Award The Bonus arrangements for our senior managers and supermarket store managers include corporate and personal performance targets.
A profit gateway is in place which means that a certain level of underlying profit before tax must be achieved before any bonus related to the corporate element of the bonus is released.
60 per cent of the bonus is paid in cash and 40 per cent converted into shares, which are automatically released after three financial years.
The share element of the bonus arrangement is called the Bonus Share Award.
Bonus Shares are subject to forfeiture if the participant resigns or is dismissed for cause prior to their release date.
Dividends accrue on these shares and are released at the end of the three year retention period.
Our top 45 managers do not receive Bonus Share Awards as they receive Deferred Share Awards.
A reconciliation of the number of shares granted over the year is shown below: 2014 2013 million million Outstanding at beginning of year 3.5 Granted 4.4 3.7 Lapsed 0.4 0.2 Outstanding at end of year 7.5 3.5 The number of shares allocated at the end of the year is set out below: 2014 2013 million million 17 May 2012 3.3 3.5 16 May 2013 4.2 The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 15 March 2014 was 1.7 years 2013: 2.2 years.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 133 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Related party transactions Group During the year, the Group sold two properties with a fair value of 103 million to Manor Property Scottish Partnership, a Scottish partnership in which the Group has a 0.001 per cent interest and subsequently entered into a 25 year lease of these properties.
The operations of the partnership are controlled by the JSainsbury Pension Scheme and the Group has significant influence over the partnership by virtue of its contractual rights as General Partner to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the partnership.
The partnership is therefore treated as an Investment in Associate in the Groups consolidated financial statements and accounted for using the equity method.
The gain on the disposal of the properties recognised outside of underlying profit was 10million and lease payments made to the partnership during the year were 3 million.
a Key management personnel The key management personnel of the Group comprise members of the J Sainsbury plc Board of Directors and the Operating Board.
The key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 11 9 Post-employment employee benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 10 11 22 21 Nine key management personnel had credit card balances with Sainsburys Bank 2013: seven.
These arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
Nine key management personnel held saving deposit accounts with Sainsburys Bank 2013: seven.
These balances arose in the normal course of business and were immaterial to the Group and the individuals.
b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014, the Group entered into various transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below: 2014 2013 m m Management services provided 16 17 Remeasurement of previously held equity interest in Sainsburys Bank 15 Offset of creditor balance with investment note 14 43 Revenue share received from joint ventures 4 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 1 Dividend income received 1 18 Repayment of loan to joint ventures 4 16 Investment in joint ventures and associates 13 1 Loan to joint venture 7 5 Acquisition of companies 21 Rental expenses paid 72 71 Purchase of assets 24 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2014 2013 m m Receivables Other receivables 21 14 Loans due from joint ventures 1 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 25 1 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 Other 18 15 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 1 Balances due from Sainsburys Bank.
Following acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank, year-end balances are now disclosed within the Company subsidiaries note a. J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 134 32 Related party transactions continued c Retirement benefit obligations As discussed in note 30, the Group has entered into an arrangement with the Pension Scheme Trustee as part of the funding plan for the actuarial deficit in the Scheme.
Full details of this arrangement are set out in note 30 to these financial statements.
Company a Subsidiaries The Company enters into loans with its subsidiaries at both fixed and floating rates of interest on a commercial basis.
Hence, the Company incurs interest expense and earns interest income on these loans and advances.
The Company also received dividend income from its subsidiaries during the financial year.
Transactions with subsidiaries 2014 2013 m m Acquisition of Sainsburys Bank 248 1 Repayment of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital from Sainsburys Bank 50 Investment in subsidiaries 70 Loans and advances given to, and dividend income received from subsidiaries Loans and advances given 236 402 Loans and advances repaid by subsidiaries 138 330 Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 183 161 Dividend income received 250 250 Loans and advances received from subsidiaries Loans and advances received 282 318 Loans and advances repaid 218 3 Interest expense paid in respect of interest bearing loans and advances 132 104 1 The undated subordinated loan capital was repaid in February 2014 following agreement in writing from the Prudential Regulation Authority.
Year-end balances arising from transactions with subsidiaries 2014 2013 m m Receivables Loans and advances due from subsidiaries 2,591 2,461 1 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 60 Payables Loans and advances due to subsidiaries 5,290 5,390 1 No r epayment of dated subordinated debt prior to its stated maturity may be made without the consent of the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority.
In the event of a winding up of Sainsburys Bank, the loan is subordinated to ordinary unsecured liabilities.
Interest is payable three months in arrears at LIBOR plus a margin of 0.6 per cent per annum for the duration of the loan.
The loan is due to be repaid in December 2014. b Joint ventures and associates Transactions with joint ventures and associates For the 52 weeks to 15 March 2014, the Company entered into transactions with joint ventures and associates as set out below.
2014 2013 m m Services and loans provided to joint ventures Interest income received in respect of interest bearing loans 1 1 Year-end balances arising from transactions with joint ventures and associates 2014 2013 m m Receivables Loans due from joint ventures 1 Floating rate subordinated undated loan capital 25 1 Floating rate subordinated dated loan capital 30 Payables Loans due to joint ventures 5 5 1 Balances due from Sainsburys Bank.
Following acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent of Sainsburys Bank, year-end balances are now disclosed within the Company subsidiaries note a. J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 135 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, depots and equipment under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2014 2013 m m Aggregate future minimum lease payments: Within one year 554 507 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,071 1,889 After five years 6,402 6,164 9,027 8,560 Further analysis of the Groups future minimum lease payments after five years is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Aggregate future minimum lease receipts: Greater than five years but less than ten years 1,811 1,725 Greater than ten years but less than 15 years 1,252 1,308 After 15 years 3,339 3,131 6,402 6,164 The commercial terms of the Groups operating leases vary, however they commonly include either a market rent review or an index linked rent review with a cap and collar.
The timing of when rent reviews take place differs for each lease.
The Group has pre-emption rights over a minor number of properties, which provides the Group with the right of first refusal to purchase the property in the event the landlord chooses to sell.
The option price payable for the asset in each instance is normally referenced to current market value prevailing at the point of pre-emption.
1 For the purposes of calculating adjusted net debt, the total value of the Groups capitalised operating lease commitments is 5,095 million 2013: 4,839 million.
The Group sublets certain leased properties: 2014 2013 m m Aggregate future minimum lease receipts: Within one year 25 29 In the second to fifth years inclusive 86 95 After five years 104 120 215 244 1 Restated to reflect more detailed analysis of lease length beyond five years.
34 Capital commitments The Group has entered into contracts totalling 230 million 2013: 295 million for future capital expenditure in relation to property, plant and equipment and nil 2013: 1 million for intangible assets not provided for in the financial statements.
The Company does not have any capital commitments 2013: nil.
35 Financial commitments Sainsburys Bank has off balance sheet financial instruments committing it to extend credit to customers of 58 million 2013: 48 million.
36 Contingent liabilities The Group has a contingent liability for indemnities arising from the disposal of subsidiaries.
No provision has been recognised on the basis that any potential liability arising is not considered probable.
It is not possible to quantify the impact of this liability with any certainty.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 136 37 Business combinations On 31 January 2014 the Group acquired 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Sainsburys Bank plc from Lloyds Banking Group for consideration of 193million and at the same time purchased 25 million of floating rate subordinated undated loan capital and 30 million of floating rate subordinated dated loan capital.
Sainsburys Bank provides banking services and related financial services wholly within the UK.
Prior to the acquisition, the Group held 50 per cent of the ordinary share capital of Sainsburys Bank, which was recorded within investments in joint ventures.
The acquisition will benefit customers and shareholders, allowing the full future potential of the Bank to be realised.
Accounting is on a provisional basis with the final consideration payment under negotiation with Lloyds Banking Group.
Details of the purchase consideration are as follows.
2014 m Purchase consideration refer to c below : Cash paid 199 Deferred consideration 5 Acquisition-date fair value of the previously held equity interest 193 Total purchase consideration 397 The provisional assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisition are as follows: Provisional Pre acquisition Fair value values on carrying values adjustments acquisition m m m Cash and balances at central banks 1,259 1,259 Investment securities 31 31 Loans and advances to customers 2,597 46 2,551 Property, plant and equipment 18 18 Intangible assets 4 39 43 Deferred tax assets 4 4 Other assets, prepayments and accrued income 164 164 Derivatives and other liabilities 29 29 Customer accounts and deposits by banks 3,532 11 3,543 Provisions for liabilities and charges 14 14 Accruals and deferred income 33 33 Other borrowed funds 110 11 99 Net identifiable assets acquired 355 3 352 Add: goodwill 45 Net assets acquired 397 Goodwill arising on the acquisition is attributable to the synergies expected to be achieved.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
a Acquired receivables loans and advances to customers The fair value of loans and advances to customers is 2,551 million.
The gross loans and advances to customers pre-fair value adjustments are 2,680 million against which an 83million provision for impairment is held.
The fair value adjustment to loans and advances in the table above represents movements in credit spreads on collectable assets.
b Revenue and profit contribution From the date of acquisition, the acquired business has contributed 28 million of revenue and 6 million of underlying operating profit to the Group.
If the acquisition date had been on the first day of the financial year assuming 50 weeks to 28 February, Group revenues for the year would have been 24,221 million and Group underlying profit would have been 926 million.
These amounts have been calculated using the Groups accounting policies.
The information is provided for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of the combined Group that would have occurred had the purchase actually been made at the beginning of the year, or indicative of future results of the combined Group.
c Cash impact of acquisition 2014 m Cash consideration 199 Fair value of subordinated loan note receivables acquired 44 Cash acquired 1,259 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 1,016 Direct costs relating to the acquisition 7 Net cash impact 1,009 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 137 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Business combinations continued d Acquisition adjustments included in non-underlying profit before tax The following items have been excluded from underlying profit before tax and are presented separately on the face of the income statement.
2014 m Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind included in revenue 3 Remeasurement of the previously held equity interest included in other income 15 Acquisition adjustment fair value unwind included in cost of sales 1 Acquired intangible amortisation included in administrative expenses 1 Acquisition adjustments 18 Acquisition related costs included in administrative expenses 7 11 Excluded from underlying profit before tax are costs of 45 million in relation to Sainsburys Bank, of which 7 million are acquisition related and 38 million are the costs of transitioning to a new banking platform.
38 Capital resources The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital resources of Sainsburys Bank before any Group adjustments, being the regulated entity, atthe balance sheet date: 2014 m Tier 1 capital: Ordinary share capital 240 Allowable reserves 138 Deduction for intangible assets 35 Total Tier 1 capital 343 Lower Tier 2 capital: Dated loan stock 10 Total Tier 2 capital 10 Total capital 353 The Banks regulatory capital is analysed into two tiers.
Tier 1 capital includes ordinary share capital and retained earnings after the deduction of intangible assets.
Tier 2 capital includes dated loan stock.
Various limits are applied to elements of the capital base.
Tier 2 capital cannot exceed Tier 1, and lower Tier 2 capital cannot exceed 50 per cent of Tier 1 capital.
The Bank meets both requirements.
Capital management The Bank manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of its activities.
Capital adequacy is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management, the Asset and Liability Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Banks Board.
Our submissions to the PRA in the year have shown that the Bank has complied with all externally imposed capital requirements until April 2013, submissions were made to the Financial Services Authority.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 138
