Directors Report Operating Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 38 1.
Angie Risley Chief Executive Company Secretary and Corporate Group HR Director See page 37 Angie was appointed Group HR Director and a Services Director member of the Operating Board in January 2013 Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company 2.
Mike Coupe with responsibility for human resources.
She is Secretary and joined the Operating Board in 2004. also a Non-Executive Director ofSerco Group plc Group Commercial Director and In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim and chairs their Remuneration Committee.
Angie is responsible for the Corporate Services Division Chief Executive designate was most recently Group HR Director at Lloyds comprising Legal Services, Public Affairs, Safety, See page 37 Banking Group and prior to this an Executive Shareholder Services, Insurance and Central 3.
John Rogers Director of Whitbread plc with responsibility for Security.
He chairs the Group Safety Committee HRand Corporate Social Responsibility.
She was Chief Financial Officer and the Data Governance Committee.
Tim joined amember of the Low PayCommission.
See page 37 Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics company, where he was Company Secretary and 10.
Helen Buck Head of Legal Services 1994-2001.
He began his career at the international law firm Clifford Chance Digital and Technology Director Business Development Director for six years and is a qualified solicitor.
Jon joined the Operating Board in March 2014 Helen was appointed to the Operating Board on withresponsibility for Digital and the IT function.
Peter Griffiths He joined Sainsburys in July 2011 as Director of appointed Retail Director in March 2012 and Online and in March 2013 he also took on became Business Development Director in May CEO of Sainsburys Bank responsibility for Digital.
Jon joined Sainsburys 2014 with responsibility for developing the Peter was appointed CEO of Sainsburys Bank in from Ocado where he led marketing, user business beyond the core, as well as Mobile by November 2012 and joined the Operating Board experience, trading, own-brand and supply chain.
Sainsburys, Sainsburys Energy and Sainsburys inMay 2014.
Prior to joining Sainsburys he was Previously, Jon was a management consultant at Online.
Helen joined Sainsburys in 2005 and, Group Chief Executive of Principality, the largest Bain & Company and worked in venture capital.
afterspending four years running Brand building society in Wales, growing it from the 13th Communications, moved to the Trading Division largest building society in the UK to the 7th, 11.
Sarah Warby as Business Unit Director, Grocery in 2009.
Before during his decade in charge.
He previously worked joining Sainsburys, Helen held a number of senior for NatWest 1977-2000, and was Chief Operating Marketing Director positions at Marks and Spencer Group plc, Officer at Morgan Chambers Plc.
He is former Sarah joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board Woolworths and Safeway and was a senior Chairman of the CBI Wales and the Building on 30 January 2012 as Marketing Director.
She has manager at McKinsey & Company.
Since Societies Association, and is a Fellow of UWIC and responsibility for all Sainsburys marketing December 2011, Helen has been a Non-Executive The Chartered Institute of Management.
activity: brand communications, own-brand Director of LSL Property Services PLC.
marketing, in-store, loyalty and customer insight.
Paul Mills-Hicks She also has responsibility for Customer Service 5.
Roger Burnley and Experience, as well as Corporate Social Food Commercial Director Responsibility and Corporate Affairs.
Sarah Retail and Operations Director Paul joined the Operating Board in May 2014 as previously held a number of senior positions at Roger joined Sainsburys Operating Board in March Food Commercial Director having spent over Heineken and was their UK Marketing Director 2006 as Supply Chain Director before assuming 10years at Sainsburys.
He began working for where she was responsible for a number of the therole of Retail and Logistics Director 2008-12.
Justin King in his first two years as Chief Executive UKs most high-profile FMCG brands.
Prior to this, Hewas then appointed Managing Director of during the formation of the Making Sainsburys she was Innovation Director at Heineken where General Merchandise, Clothing and Logistics Great Again strategy.
Following this he held a she led the combined technical and marketing inMarch 2012 and was appointed Retail variety of roles in commercial, strategy and team.
Earlier in her career, Sarah worked for several andOperations Director in May 2014, with finance, most recently as Business Unit Director marketing agencies and was a graduate employee responsibility for leading the combined team of for Grocery.
Prior to Sainsburys, Paul was at Unilever PLC.
Roger European Controller at Marks and Spencer was previously Supply Chain Director at Matalan.
Group plc and aDirector at UBS Warburg.
He spent his early career in retail management Paul is a qualified electronic engineer and and buying at B&Q before joining ASDA WalMart, aChartered Accountant.
where he held a number of positions before becoming their Supply Chain Director in 2001.
Roger is currently Vice President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport UK and in September 2012 he joined the Board of Transport for London, for which he is also a member of the Surface Transport Panel.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 39
