Achievements Supermarket of the Year Embedding sustainability For the third consecutive year, and the sixth time Sainsburys was listed in the Dow Jones in eight years, we won Supermarket of the Year at Sustainability Index for the seventh consecutive the Retail Industry Awards 2013, as we continue year.
This index is one of the leading ways that to outperform the UK grocery market in a tough sustainability is measured in the international climate.
Best Convenience Retailer Leading retailer for sustainability For the fourth year running, we won Convenience We continue to be recognised for our Retailer of the Year, as our convenience business sustainability approach in the independent, grew at around 19 per cent year-on-year.
highly regarded FTSE4Good Index, which we have been part of since its inception in 2001.
The index evaluates businesses from around the world against key social, environmental and governance practices.
Drinks Retailer of the Year Top employer for women We were awarded Drinks Retailer of the Year for We were ranked in the Times Top 50 Employers the second consecutive year.
for Women 2014 for our proactive approach to career development.
Consumer Initiative of the Year Sourcing to high welfare standards We won Consumer Initiative of the Year at the We won Responsible Business of the Year at Grocer Gold Awards 2013 for inspiring, delighting the RSPCA Animal Hero Awards 2013 for our and winning the loyalty of our customers commitment to sourcing all meat, poultry, eggs, throughout our sponsorship of the London 2012 game and dairy products from suppliers who Paralympic Games.
adhere to independent higher welfare standards by the year 2020.
Online Retailer of the Year Animal welfare We won Online Retailer of the Year as we grow We received the Best Retailer Marketing award from our online business, with initiatives such as the Compassion in World Farming for including high introduction of early morning delivery slots and welfare products in our promotions throughout increasing our service to more customers across the year and engaging colleagues to ensure better the UK.
communication of this work to our customers.
Green Retailer of the Year Investing in our people As the UKs largest retail user of anaerobic We received a second Gold accreditation for digestion technology, we were recognised for our commitment to improve our business by our focus on food waste and our achievement investing in our colleagues.
We are the only of hitting our zero food waste to landfill target supermarket ever to receive this accolade.
Grocer 33 for Availability and Business of the Year Customer Service We won QBE FTSE100 Business of the Year at the 2013 National Business Awards for achieving We won the Grocer 33 awards for Availability and Customer Service.
These awards are based on good growth in a highly competitive sector while aligning social impact with commercial the results of the mystery shops that The Grocer carries out every week in supermarkets across objectives at every level.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 144 This report is printed on UPM Fine.
Find out more at The printer is certified to the j-sainsbury.
co. uk environmental management system TM ISO 14001 and is also CarbonNeutral The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Cert no.
XXX-XXX-000 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
