64 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation General Information JD Sports Fashion Plc, the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 52 week period ended 1 February 2014 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 15 April 2014.
Basis of Preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 1 February 2014.
The Company has chosen to present its own results under adopted IFRSs and by publishing the Company Financial Statements here, with the Group Financial Statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement and also put options held by the non-controlling interests.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 16 and 26 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 22.
As at 1 February 2014, the Group had net cash balances of 45,276,000 2013: 45,636,000 with available committed borrowing facilities of 155,000,000 2013: 75,000,000 of which 26,000,000 2013: nil has been drawn down see note 21.
With a facility of 155,000,000 available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards From 3 February 2013, the Group has applied the amendment to IFRS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
This amendment requires an entity to separate items included in OCI between those that may be reclassified to profit and loss in the future from those that would never be reclassified to profit and loss.
This has been reflected in the Groups OCI for the 52 week period ending 1 February 2014.
Since being endorsed, the Group has applied the relevant sections of the Annual improvement to IFRSs - 2009-2011 Cycle.
This has had no significant impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
