64 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 1.
Basis of Preparation Continued Adoption of New and Revised Standards Continued From 3 February 2013, the Group has applied IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
This standard consolidates the existing fair value measurement guidance in different IFRSs with a single definition of fair value, a framework for measuring fair value and disclosures about fair value measurements.
This has had no significant impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
From 3 February 2013 the Group has applied Amendments to IFRS 7 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
This amendment has introduced new disclosure required for financial assets and liabilities which have been offset in the statement of financial position and or are subject to master netting arrangements or similar agreements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued during the 52 week period ended 1 February 2014 but are not yet effective, and therefore have not yet been adopted by the Group.
New standards on consolidation and related standards, which are effective for accounting periods beginning 1 January 2014.
The following standards replace the existing accounting for subsidiaries and joint ventures, and make limited amendments in relation to associates: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 revised IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 revised With the exception of future acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures it is not anticipated that these standards will have a significant Impact on the financial statements, as no change to the current consolidation conclusions is expected to be required.
IFRS 10 indicates that control is the determining factor in deciding whether an entity should be consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities is applicable from 1 January 2014.
This amendment clarifies the application of the offsetting rules, however this is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS12 and IAS 27 is applicable from 1 January 2014.
This amendment exempts an investment entity from the requirement to consolidate the investments that it controls and to instead account for these investments at fair value through the profit and loss.
This standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets is applicable from 1 January 2014.
This amendment reverses the unintended requirement of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose the recoverable amount of every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets have been allocated.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to be applicable after 1 January 2015.
If endorsed, this standard will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes, but is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future reporting periods.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
