Strategic report Governance Financial statements Statement of Directors' responsibilities and compliance Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Compliance The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent company corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and integrity, consistent with our Core Values.
This section of the annual report explains how the Group has applied the main principles of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the shareholders outlined in the Governance Code.
A copy of the Governance Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and Company has fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable during the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Board considers that law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond profit or loss of the Group for that period.
regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: X select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Going concern X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the X state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as Strategic Report on pages 5 to 20.
The financial position of the Group, adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting in the Financial Review on pages 10 to 13.
In addition, note 17 to the Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Group financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the The Group has considerable financial resources together with the cash financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply inflows generated from its existing activities as set out in notes 13, 15 with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial and 26 to the Group financial statements.
As a consequence, the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for risks successfully.
Having made the appropriate enquiries including a taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and review of cash flow projections and key sensitivities, the directors consider, other irregularities.
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Code, that the business is a going concern.
Adequate resources exist for Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Group and the parent company financial statements.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 24 and 25, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: X the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group, and X the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the significant risks and uncertainties that it faces.
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is defined as information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23
