4 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 5 CASE STUDY Four Decades of Emissions Control It is 40 years since Johnson Mattheys first autocatalysts rolled off the production line at our Royston plant in the UK.
Since then, this technology to control emissions from vehicles has had a major impact on improving air quality around the world, preventing many millions of tonnes of harmful pollutants from entering our air.
Back in the late 1960s scientists at Johnson Matthey were developing platinum group metal catalysts to control gaseous pollutants in chemical and food processing applications.
With the Clean Air Act requiring emissions from car exhausts to be reduced by 90%, we switched the focus of our research.
By 1972 we had successfully developed and demonstrated the positive benefits of platinum containing catalysts to clean up car exhausts.
As a result, catalytic converters containing an emission control catalyst became the preferred technology for reducing car emissions.
From 1975 all new models of car in the US had to be fitted with a catalyst to meet the new legislation so we continued our research to deliver a commercially viable product.
Key scientific developments, including the use of a monolith support and the formulation of an effective catalyst coating, underpinned the successful delivery.
By late 1973 Johnson Matthey had completed construction of its first catalyst line in Royston and by the end of April 1974, our first autocatalyst production pieces were being made for Volkswagen.
Construction of a very large plant in Pennsylvania followed to enable us to supply the US market.
We also invested heavily in testing facilities for evaluating autocatalysts on engines.
Since this pioneering work, Johnson Matthey has continued to invest in research, development, testing and manufacturing facilities all around the world.
As legislation continues to tighten globally, we continue to develop more efficient, higher performance emission control catalysts and manufacturing processes.
Today our autocatalysts are fitted to one in three cars around the world and we are a major supplier of catalysts for trucks and buses too.
Our emission control catalysts, developed over many decades, exemplify how science and innovation can be applied to create value adding sustainable technologies for today and for the future.
Contents 6 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Statement 10 Our Business 12 Building our 3rd Century 15 Research and Development 16 Group Key Performance Indicators 18 Risks and Uncertainties 1.
OVERVIEW Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
