185 Verification of Non-Financial Data For a number of years the group has sought Certain human resources data forms All data is reviewed by internal to collect and present certain non-financial part of Johnson Mattheys accounts which sustainability experts and at appropriate data in respect of human resources, health are subject to external audit.
Other human levels of management up to and including and safety and environmental metrics as a resources data, community investment the Chief Executives Committee.
means to demonstrate internally and data and information relating to charitable Johnson Matthey utilises external externally our performance as a responsible donations is reviewed and verified by specialists on specific sustainability issues.
We have continued to consider internal experts.
Over the past year this has included external the metrics we present, the basis of Health and safety data is reviewed by audits or reviews of people management measurement and the processes of collection group health and safety experts and as part systems, health and safety OHSAS 18001 and consolidation with a view to standardising of the group environment, health and safety and environmental management systems and improving the relevance and quality of EHS audit programme.
Environmental data such as ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and the metrics presented, and to further improve is reviewed by group environmental experts RC 14001. our processes in this area.
and as part of the group EHS audit The board reviews corporate social programme.
responsibility issues as part of its risk management process.
Actions Arising in 2013 14 in Response to the 2013 Assurance Process Johnson Matthey compiles, assesses and Since 2007 08 our annual non-financial We continue to implement the discloses non-financial information for a reports have been subject to third party additional recommendations from the number of reasons: assurance assessment provided by 2012 13 assurance process.
As a result, independent consultants auditors.
we have not commissioned external Where there is a legal obligation The 2012 13 third party assurance assurance of our non-financial data for this UK Companies Act, mandatory review identified several areas where report.
This will allow us sufficient time to carbon reporting.
improvements could be made to our implement medium and longer term To help drive improved business non-financial data definitions and the data corrective actions and remedial measures performance.
collection processes at a site level which against the most significant issues identified.
would also enhance consistency across To demonstrate to institutional the group.
investors that Johnson Mattheys The board considered the implications of business approach is responsible, the observations and, in response, in 2013 14 sustainable and offers a sound we have taken the following actions: value proposition.
We made improvements by creating To demonstrate to our customers that a data dictionary which more clearly Johnson Mattheys business conduct defines key environmental and meets or exceeds all of the required manpower performance indicators so standards.
that our sites have absolute clarity on To demonstrate to other stakeholders how and what numbers to report.
This that Johnson Matthey conducts its data dictionary, with clearly defined business in an appropriate manner.
definitions, was issued to all sites in the first quarter of 2014 for use in this To benchmark our corporate years reporting cycle.
performance against peer group companies.
We have undertaken more rigorous assessments of the data at site level, Our information disclosures take many approval at divisional level and forms including investor interviews, customer automated assessment at group level questionnaires, independent CSR assurance which has improved the quality of the surveys and the non-financial data and data for 2013 14. other information described within our annual report.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
