174 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7.
Accounts Notes on the Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2014 39 Key sources of estimation uncertainty Determining the carrying amounts of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effects of uncertain future events on those assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The group and parent company have made appropriate estimates when applying the accounting policies, but the actual outcome may differ from those calculated.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: Post-employment benefits The groups and parent companys defined benefit plans are assessed annually by qualified independent actuaries.
The details of the plans and assumptions used are described in note 14.
Goodwill The group has capitalised goodwill of 571.0 million and the parent company has 113.3 million.
Annual impairment reviews are performed which require various assumptions.
More details are given in note 16.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are also subject to annual impairment reviews based on discounted cash flow projections.
Taxation The tax payable on profits is determined based on tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations is unclear then reasonable estimates may be used to determine the tax charge included in the accounts.
If the tax eventually payable or reclaimable differs from the amounts originally estimated then the difference will be charged or credited in the accounts for the year in which it is determined.
Refining process and stock takes The groups and parent companys refining and fabrication businesses process significant quantities of precious metal and, similar to many industrial activities, losses may arise during processing.
The refining businesses alone process over four million oz of platinum group metals, over 15 million oz of gold and over 60 million oz of silver each year.
The extent of process losses depends on many factors, including the nature of material being refined, the specific refining processes applied and the processes efficiency.
Judgment is therefore required in estimating the amount of such losses when setting process loss provisions.
Also stock takes, particularly at the refining businesses, involve estimation of volumes in the refining system and the subsequent sampling and assaying of material to assess the precious metal content.
In addition, the results of sampling and assaying and therefore the stock take itself are only available some time after the date of the stock take.
In setting process loss provisions and assessing the stock take results management takes account of the complexity of the stock take process, past experience, the ability to extract precious metals from the refining process and other factors when estimating losses and gains.
