180 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8.
Other Information SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 181 CASE STUDY Technology to Tackle Greenhouse Gases Johnson Matthey is well experienced in improving and innovating solutions to control harmful emissions.
In a recent development, weve turned our hand to tackling emissions of methane, combining our know-how in advanced materials and chemical engineering to create clever catalyst technology that can deliver real environmental benefits.
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas GHG that is at least 21 times as powerful as carbon dioxide CO in trapping heat in the atmosphere.
2 Recent estimates suggest it may be even more potent over 30 times that of CO. Methane accounted for 16% of all global GHG emissions 2 in 2010, according to a report by the United Nations Environment Programme.
It also represents a large proportion of the GHG emissions from coal mining.
Methane can also be explosive, depending on its concentration in air, and presents a major safety risk in the coal mining industry.
To control the risk, air is drawn into mines to reduce the methane concentration below the flammable range.
This mine ventilation air typically contains less than 1% methane.
Our catalyst technology is designed to remove methane at low concentrations and low temperature, making it particularly suited to coal mining applications.
In addition, it is easily scalable and has few moving parts, thus making it a reliable technology that is easy to maintain.
If we use a methane potency of 21 times that of CO, 1 tonne of methane emissions would be equivalent to 21 tonnes 2 of CO emissions.
With our catalyst technology, methane is chemically 2 converted to CO but this time, 1 tonne of methane emissions is 2 transformed to only 2.75 tonnes of CO, significantly reducing the 2 impact on the environment.
Contents 182 Five Year Record Financial Data 183 Five Year Record Non-Financial Data 184 Basis of Reporting Non-Financial Data 185 Verification of Non-Financial Data 186 Shareholder Information 188 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Summary 189 Glossary of Terms 190 Index 191 Financial Calendar 2014 15 192 Company Details 8.
OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
