68 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5.
Environment SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 69 CASE STUDY The Right Solution for Water Purification Growth through new businesses is an important element of our strategy.
Our focus is on areas that are adjacent to our existing activities and that fit well with our technology competences.
Our market led approach combines organic development with targeted acquisitions, where appropriate, to generate the next material growth engines for the group.
Water purification for industrial applications is one of our new business areas.
To complement our R&D programmes we have recently acquired new advanced ion exchange technology to strengthen our position in the market and inform our in house developments.
We are especially targeting the mining and chemicals industry where complex problems exist today.
Our water technologies team is working closely with customers on new processes from our applications centres in the US, China and Europe.
In one example we are working with a major Chinese nickel producer that generates silver as a byproduct of its nickel mining operations.
This silver is then refined electrochemically in a liquid phase process to finally produce silver ingots.
The customer was experiencing process inefficiencies and effluent issues as some contaminants in its liquid phase were affecting the final quality of the silver product.
Using our advanced ion exchange technologies, the customer is now able to selectively remove the contaminants, solving both its quality and effluent issues.
Furthermore, our materials can be washed and reused, making them an efficient option that minimises natural resource use.
With strong legislative and environmental drivers to improve water quality, there is demand for more effective solutions for water purification.
At Johnson Matthey we are applying our expertise in advanced materials to develop a new generation of sustainable technologies to tackle problematic pollutants in water.
Contents 70 Improving Our Processes, Products and Performance 71 Environmental Performance 5.
ENVIRONMENT Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
