22 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 2.
Financial SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 23 CASE STUDY Maximising Plant Performance: Minimising Natural Resources Methanol is an important chemical building block that is used to produce a wide range of everyday products from plastics and particle board to synthetic fibres and adhesives.
In addition, around 10% of the worlds methanol is used as a clean fuel, such as in China where it is blended with gasoline and used to power vehicles.
Johnson Matthey is the leader in catalysts and technology for producing methanol.
Weve built over 70 years of experience in the industry and established a deep and extensive knowledge in catalysis science, plant design and plant operation know-how.
Our catalysts are intrinsically sustainable, accelerating the rate of the chemical reactions to make methanol without being consumed themselves.
In combination with our methanol process technology, they allow our customers to operate their plants with high efficiency to produce an optimum amount of desired product with the minimum use of natural resources.
The formulation of the catalyst is crucial it must deliver high activity, selectivity, robustness and stability to ensure highly efficient production of methanol.
Over the years, our R&D has delivered continued incremental improvements in catalyst performance and, today, Johnson Matthey continues to hold a leading position with nearly half of the worlds methanol being produced using our catalysts and technology.
Our unique catalyst formulation is based on a copper containing mineral in which a controlled proportion of the copper atoms have been replaced by zinc atoms.
These are supported on a specifically designed zinc aluminate compound which gives the catalyst good mechanical strength and also allows reactant gases access to the active copper atoms.
Microcrystalline zinc oxide is also present to protect the copper atoms from poisons such as sulphur and chlorine compounds.
Our scientists continue to develop the formulation of our methanol synthesis catalysts and their production routes to ensure that our catalysts can deliver the maximum activity and selectivity at all times.
With an integrated approach, we continue to enhance our process technology too.
Together these ensure we can provide methanol customers around the world with leading edge catalysts, technology and technical service that enables them to optimise their plants and their use of natural resources.
Contents 24 Group Performance Review 26 Financial Review of Operations 26 Emission Control Technologies 30 Process Technologies 34 Precious Metal Products 38 Fine Chemicals 41 New Businesses 44 Financial Review 49 Treasury Policies and Going Concern 2.
FINANCIAL Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
