128 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7.
Accounts SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 129 CASE STUDY Johnson Matthey The Original Recycler Recycling is a core competence of Johnson Matthey weve been doing it for almost 200 years.
Today Johnson Matthey is the worlds largest recycler of platinum group metals.
With facilities in both the US and UK and long industry experience, Johnson Matthey has earned a trusted reputation among its many customers across the globe.
Our recycling operations have an important role to play in the conservation and optimisation of platinum group metals pgms.
In studies on environmental impact it has been estimated that the recycling and recovery of pgms from secondary sources is one to two orders of magnitude less intensive compared to the primary extraction of these important materials.
Recycling pgms is not easy though.
It is a highly complex process which requires a deep understanding of materials science, pyrometallurgy, multi stage chemical separations and analytical science.
Through application of these core technologies, Johnson Matthey provides its customers with a full, seven metal separation of gold, silver, platinum, palladium and the insoluble, difficult to separate rhodium, iridium and ruthenium.
Johnson Matthey recycles a wide range of feeds including spent process catalysts from pharmaceutical or fine chemicals manufacturers, end of life autocatalysts, secondary mine residues, jewellery or other metal scrap and materials from other Johnson Matthey operations.
Our expertise lies in our ability to process customers bulk material to generate a homogeneous sample from which we can accurately determine its pgm content, then recovering the optimum amount of pgm in the shortest possible time.
But we dont just confine our expertise to our recycling facilities.
We also apply the principles of recycling throughout our internal operations, giving us a firm foundation to tackle the task of further improving the resource efficiency of all our products, both in manufacture and in use.
Contents 130 Consolidated Income Statement 130 Consolidated Statement of Total Comprehensive Income 131 Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 132 Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements 133 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 134 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 135 Accounting Policies 139 Notes on the Accounts 177 Independent Auditors Report 7.
ACCOUNTS Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
