74 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 6.
Governance SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 75 CASE STUDY Catalysis and Chiral Technologies Catalysis plays a vital role in many markets in the 21st century and is key to many technologies that will help us make better, more efficient use of finite and increasingly expensive natural resources, whilst at the same time helping to reduce waste.
Johnson Matthey manufactures a wide range of catalysts.
At one end of the scale we supply catalysts that are used on a multi tonne scale to produce bulk chemicals like methanol, ammonia and hydrogen.
On the other hand, our Catalysis and Chiral Technologies CCT business within our Fine Chemicals Division provides catalysts and other speciality products that are used at lower volumes to manufacture highly complex molecules for pharmaceutical and agrochemical applications.
In CCT we blend together expertise in catalysis and synthetic chemistry and pride ourselves on being able to offer our customers leading edge catalytic technologies.
As part of our strategy for achieving this, we license in technology from academia which we then build on using our extensive in house expertise.
We also develop our own proprietary technologies and, together, these give us a broad range of products.
One example is our palladium based catalysts which are used in cross coupling reactions where two different organic i. e. carbon containing molecules are brought together, forming new carbon-carbon bonds.
These catalysts and reactions have huge importance for the synthesis of many organic molecules and Johnson Matthey has a broad portfolio of commercially available palladium cross coupling catalysts.
The sustainability benefits of CCTs catalytic technologies go beyond enhancing efficiency and eliminating waste in our customers operations.
As a result of their use by our customers in the manufacture of drugs for treating conditions such as cancer, diabetes, respiratory diseases and hypertensions, they also make an important contribution to health and wellbeing too.
Contents 76 Letter from the Chairman 77 Sustainability and Governance 82 Board of Directors 84 Corporate Governance Report 95 Nomination Committee Report 98 Audit Committee Report 103 Remuneration Report 123 Directors Report 127 Responsibility of Directors 6.
GOVERNANCE Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
