Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Glossary of Terms Adjusted earnings per share means profit attributable to Company means JUST EAT plc, a company incorporated in the holders of Ordinary Shares in the parent, before long-term England and Wales with registered number 06947854 whose employee incentive costs, exceptional items, other gains, registered office is at Masters House, 107 Hammersmith Road, foreign exchange gains and losses, amortisation of acquired London W14 0QH.
intangible assets and the tax impact of the adjusting items, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding Consumer end users of the JUST EAT websites and apps, during the period.
who use it to place orders online.
Admission means the admission of the Ordinary shares to Corporate website means www.
the High Growth Segment HGS of the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange which occurred on 8 April 2014.
On CSOP means the JUST EAT Company Share Option Plan.
6 May 2014, the Group transitioned from the HGS of the Main Market to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the CSR means Corporate Social Responsibility.
Directors means the directors of the Company whose names AFS means available for sale.
AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the Company, Disclosure and Transparency Rules means the disclosure which will be held on 13 May 2015 at 9.30am at the Lincoln rules and transparency rules made under Part VI of the Financial Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London, WC2A 3ED.
Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Average revenue per order ARPO calculated as B2C EBITDA earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, revenue divided by the number of orders.
Articles means the Articles of Association of the Company.
EBT means the Employee Benefit Trust which is administered by Appleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited.
Associates or Associated undertakings means from 14 November 2013 Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited, the EMI scheme means the JUST EAT Enterprise Management Groups Indian joint venture and from 3 November 2014 IF-JE Incentive scheme.
Participaes Ltda, the Groups Brazilian joint venture.
EPOS means electronic point of sale technology used by B2C revenue comprises commission revenue and revenue takeaway restaurants.
from fees charged in connection with orders paid for by credit and debit card.
EPS means earnings per share.
Board means the Board of Directors of JUST EAT plc.
ETR means effective tax rate.
Exceptional items means items that, by virtue of their nature and incidence, have been disclosed separately Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006 in order to draw them to the attention of the reader of the as amended.
Executive Directors means David Buttress and Mike Wroe.
com 151 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Glossary of Terms continued FBA means FBA Invest SaS, the Groups French subsidiary Ordinary Shares means the Ordinary Shares with a nominal which trades as ALLORESTO.
Eat On value of 0.01 each in the share capital of the Company.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus dated 3 April FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
2014 prepared in connection with the Companys Admission.
Full Time Equivalent FTE the number of employees R&D means Research and Development.
after factoring in reduced hours worked by part time staff.
SERP means Search Engine Results Page.
FVTPL means fair value through profit or loss.
Shareholder means a holder for the time being of Ordinary GHG means greenhouse gas.
Group means JUST EAT plc and its subsidiary undertakings SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
as defined by the Companies Act 2006.
Takeaway restaurant any restaurant signed up to HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
JUST EAT, offering either delivery or collection services via the JUST EAT websites or apps.
IAS means International Accounting Standard s. The Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code IF-JE means IF-JE Participaes Ltda, the Groups Brazilian published by the FRC September 2012, as in force from time associate undertaking.
IFRS IC means International Financial Reporting Standards TSR means total shareholder return the growth in value of Interpretations Committee.
a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standard s as adopted for use in the European Union.
Underlying EBITDA is the main measure of profit used by management to assess the performance of the Groups IP means Intellectual Property.
It is defined as earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, IPO means Initial Public Offering of the Companys Ordinary additionally excluding the Groups share of depreciation and Shares immediately post Admission on 8 April 2014. amortisation of joint ventures and associates, long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, foreign currency Just Connect Terminal JCT technology provided to translation differences and other gains and losses being takeaway restaurants who sign up, which enables them to profits or losses arising on the disposal and deemed disposal of receive orders from JUST EAT.
operations, and fair value gains and losses on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss.
JUST EAT means the Group or JUST EAT plc and its subsidiary undertakings as defined by the Companies Act 2006.
At a segmental level, Underlying EBITDA also excludes intragroup franchise fee arrangements and incorporates an allocation JSOP means the JUST EAT Joint Share Ownership Plan.
of Group technology and central costs both of which net out on a consolidated level.
KPI means Key Performance Indicator.
UK GAAP means UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Mobile device means smartphones, tablets and any other handheld computing device, or any of them or all of them.
VAT means Value Added Taxation.
Non-Executive Directors means the Non-Executive Directors of the Company designated as such on pages 44 and 45.
152 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Company Information Company Secretary Corporate Advisers Tony Hunter Bankers Barclays Bank plc Company number 06947854 Solicitors Bird & Bird LLP Registered office Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Masters House 107 Hammersmith Road Auditor London Deloitte LLP W14 0QH Joint brokers Website Goldman Sachs www.
com investors J. P. Morgan Securities plc Registrar Equiniti Limited www.
com 153 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes 154 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements www.
com 155 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes 156 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Our brand journey Belly & Brain In 2009, JUST EAT launched its first major marketing push, creating two animated characters, Belly and Brain.
The campaign targeted busy people in their 20s, principally students, gamers and professionals.
Belly, representing a hungry stomach, and Brain who knows how to order takeaway the smart way.
The Dont Cook, JUST EAT In 2012, the marketing team launched a global campaign to ban cooking.
The Dont Cook, JUST EAT campaign launched on several platforms, and centred around Mr. Mozzarella and a fictional crew of takeaway chefs.
The brand success meant we soon overtook Dominos Pizza as the top-of-mind-brand for delivered takeaway.
We also won several marketing awards, including a 2013 SABRE #minifistpump award for Best Guerrilla Marketing.
Campaigns included standing in the Corby by-election and the high-profile kidnapping of celebrity chef Antony Worrall Thompson.
Following the success of Dont Cook, JUST EAT, the resulting growth in orders and awareness was such that we needed to extend our target audience demographic aimed more toward young professionals and families.
Our new brand Our campaign, #minifistpump, lau nched in September 2014.
It better reflects our purpose and values, appealing to a broader audience.
The #minifistpump personifies that momentary, yet wonderful feeling you get when ordering takeaway from JUST EAT.
It also plays well with countless small victories in other areas of everyday life.
The campaign naturally lends itself to all communication channels, including TV, radio, outdoor, digital and social media.
JUSTEAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 JUST EAT plc Fleet Place House 2 Fleet Place London EC4M 7RF United Kingdom www.
com JUSTEAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014
