Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2014 1.
General information JUST EAT plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group operate an online and mobile market place for takeaway food.
Further details about the Groups operations and principal activities are disclosed within the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41.
The Company is a public limited company listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The registered address is Masters House, 107 Hammersmith Road, London W14 0QH.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations as endorsed by the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented.
Going concern For reasons noted on page 146, the financial statements has been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the Group will continue to be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements.
At the date of approving the financial statements, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances that could lead to the Group being unable to settle commitments as they fall due during the 12 months from date of signing these financial statements.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had net current assets of 111.2 million, cash net of borrowings of 164.1 million and generated cash inflows from operating activities of 38.1 million for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 41.
Note 38 describes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
New standards, interpretations and amendments adopted No new standards or amendments to standards had any impact on the Groups financial position or performance nor the disclosures in these financial statements.
Early adoption The following new standards and amendments to existing standards are in issue, but have not been adopted by the Group as they are either subject to EU endorsement or are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2017 Annual Improvements 2010-2012 effective 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements 2011-2013 effective 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements 2012-2014 effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations effective 1 January 2016 With the exception of IFRS 15, the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
IFRS 15 may have an impact on the Groups revenue recognition polices and disclosures, however, until managements detailed review has been completed it is not practicable to provide details of the impact that its adoption will have on the Groups financial statements.
com 91 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies a Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Company incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has i power over an investee: ii exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: and iii the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investors returns.
When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including i the contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee: ii rights arising from other contractual arrangements: and iii the Groups voting rights and potential voting rights.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interests of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, it fide-recognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests and the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity.
It further recognises the fair values of the consideration received and any investment retained, with any surplus or deficit being recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
b Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method, in accordance with IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 3.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred and included within exceptional items.
92 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued When the consideration for the acquisition includes an asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and is included as part of the consideration transferred in the business combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or liabilities re-measured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39 or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are re-measured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for certain items which are measured in accordance with the relevant IFRSs.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The Groups policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described on the following page.
c Investments in associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
com 93 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The results and assets and liabilities of associates and jointly controlled entities are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except for when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
Any change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the Groups OCI.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture.
Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment at its fair value in accordance with IAS 39.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required in the that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
The aggregate amounts of current and long-term assets and liabilities, income and expenses are disclosed in notes 19 and 20.
Where applicable, the aggregate amount of capital commitments and contingent liabilities are also disclosed.
d Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
The fair values of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 38.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable: and Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
The Group presents the valuation results to the Audit Committee and the Groups independent auditors.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in the valuations.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
94 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued e Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each group company are expressed in Pound Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise, except for exchange differences on monetary items receivable or payable to a foreign operations which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation which are recognised initially in other comprehensive income and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the monetary assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or loss of significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation, all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable to the Group are reclassified to profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
f Revenue recognition Revenue is derived from commission, payment card and administration fees, connection fees, top-placement fees, and other revenue.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Commission Commission revenue, earned from restaurants, is earned and recognised at the point of order fulfilment to the restaurants consumers.
Payment card and administration fees Revenue from payment card and administration fees is recognised when the service is completed, in line with the revenue recognised on commissions.
This is the point at which an order is successfully processed and the Group has no remaining transactional obligations.
Connection fees Our restaurant partners pay a one-off fee to join the JUST EAT network, which is comprised of a JCT equipment fee and a JCT connection fee.
JCTs are order confirmation terminals situated at restaurant sites for the purposes of communicating between end user consumers and restaurants via the central JUST EAT ordering infrastructure.
JCT equipment fees are deferred to the balance sheet and recognised on a straight line basis over 36 months.
This is considered to be an appropriate time period as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the JCT.
com 95 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The JCT connection fee revenue is payable on connection but deferred and recognised on a straight line basis over 12 months.
In addition, our Danish and French based restaurant partners pay an annual subscription fee.
Revenue in respect of subscription fees is recognised on a straight line basis over the annual subscription period.
Top-placement fees Revenue from top-placement fees is recognised over the period in which the service is rendered.
Other revenue Other revenue principally relates to the sale of branded merchandise to our restaurant partners.
Merchandise revenue is recognised when the goods are delivered and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the restaurant.
g Operating profit or loss Operating profit or loss is stated after charging for long-term employee incentive provisions, exceptional items and foreign exchange gains and losses but before other gains and losses, finance income and finance costs.
h Exceptional items Exceptional items are costs or credits that, by virtue of their nature and incidence, have been disclosed separately in order to improve a readers understanding of the financial statements.
i Other gains and losses Other gains and losses are comprised of profits or losses arising on the disposal or deemed disposal of operations and gains and losses on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss.
They have been disclosed separately in order to improve a readers understanding of the financial statements.
j Leasing The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group did not have any finance leases in either 2014 or 2013.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the lease asset are consumed.
Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
k Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
l Taxation The income tax expense comprises both current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in which case the income tax is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
96 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
m Intangible assets other than goodwill The Group has four classes of intangible asset: patents, licences and intellectual property IP, restaurant contracts, brands and development costs.
Patents, licences and IP Patents, licences and IP are included at cost and amortised in equal annual instalments over their useful economic life, which is typically three to five years depending on the period over which benefits are expected to be realised from the asset.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Restaurant contracts A restaurant contract intangible asset is recorded as part of a business combination or when an associate is acquired or joint venture established.
They are initially recorded at fair value and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset on a straight line basis.
This period of time is the period over which the acquired restaurant contracts are reasonably expected to confer economic benefits to the Group, which is usually between three and ten years.
The fair values of restaurant contracts are determined with reference to the present value of their after tax cash flows projected over their remaining useful lives.
The cash flows and discount rates used in the valuations are risk-adjusted to the extent deemed necessary by management to accurately reflect local risks and uncertainties associated with the asset.
Brands A brand intangible asset is recorded as part of a business combination or when an associate is acquired or joint venture established.
They are initially recorded at fair value and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset on a straight line basis, which is usually between three and ten years.
This period of time is the period over which the acquired brand is reasonably expected to confer economic benefits to the Group.
The fair values of brand assets are established using the relief from royalty valuation method.
The cash flows and discount rates used in the relief from royalty model are risk adjusted to the extent deemed necessary by management to accurately reflect local risks and uncertainties associated with the asset.
Research and development Where an application or product is technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
Where these conditions are not met research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
To date, a large proportion of the research and development undertaken by the Group has been in the initial development phase before technical feasibility has been established.
As a result the majority of the Groups research and development expenditure has been expensed.
com 97 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued n Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and fittings 33% per annum Equipment 33% per annum Leasehold improvements 20% per annum or the period of the lease if shorter o Impairment of assets excluding goodwill Under IFRS, the Group is required to review for impairment when indicators of impairment exist.
On these occasions, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
p Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
q Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated using the first-in first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
r Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets All financial assets are recognised and fide-recognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.
98 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
The Group historically has held AFS financial assets, loans and receivables and FVTPL financial assets.
Available-for-sale financial assets UK investments in unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but that are classified as AFS financial assets are stated at fair value because the Directors considered that fair value could be reliably measured.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value were recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the AFS reserve with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the AFS reserve was reclassified to profit or loss.
As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group did not have any investments in unlisted shares which were classified as AFS financial assets.
The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the other gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 38.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those held at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that a receivable or a group of receivables is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payment, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment is the differences between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
When an AFS financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
fide-recognition of financial assets The Group fide-recognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
On fide-recognition of a financial asset, the difference between the assets carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
com 99 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
The Group currently does not hold any financial liabilities at FVTPL.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
fide-recognition of financial liabilities The Group fide-recognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
As at 31 December 2014 and 2013, the Group had one contract with an embedded derivative see note 38. s Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
The unwinding of any discount is recognised in the income statement within finance expense.
t Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair values of equity-settled share based transactions are set out in note 37.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the share based payment reserve.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with any changes in the fair value recognised in profit of loss for the year.
u Dividends Dividends are recognised on the Companys ordinary shares when they have been appropriately authorised.
100 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Critical judgements, apart from those involving estimates which are dealt with separately below, are those which management have made in applying the Groups accounting policies and have the most significant effect on the financial statements are discussed below.
a Revenue recognition Revenue derived from connection fees includes JCT connection fees and JCT equipment fees.
JCT equipment fee revenue is deferred to the balance sheet and recognised on a straight line basis over 36 months.
Judgement is applied in determining the period over which the JCT equipment fee revenue is recognised.
The JCT connection fee revenue is payable on connection but deferred and recognised on a straight line basis over 12 months.
12 months is considered to be the required period of service.
Judgement is applied in determining the period over which the connection fee is earned.
b Share-based payments The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted.
Estimating fair value for share based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant.
Judgements are applied in relation to estimations of the number of options that will vest and of the fair value of the options granted to employees.
Estimates of fair value are made using a widely recognised share option value model and are referred to third party experts where necessary.
Judgement is applied in determining the assumptions input into the share option value model.
See note 37 for details of the key assumptions used.
c Deferred taxation The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
To determine the future taxable profits, reference is made to the latest available profit forecasts.
Where the temporary differences are related to losses, relevant tax law is considered to determine the availability of the losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
Recognition of deferred tax assets therefore involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Details of the recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are included in note 21.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Discussed below are the key assumptions regarding the future, and other key sources of estimated uncertainty at the balance sheet date which may have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
d Acquired intangible assets An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The identification of intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations requires judgement.
For each business combination the balance of goodwill to other intangible assets is reviewed for appropriateness.
The intangible assets recognised as part of the 2014 business combinations are set out in notes 33 and 34.
Acquired intangible assets, comprising brands, restaurant contracts, and intellectual property are amortised through the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and ten years.
Significant judgement is required in determining the fair value and economic lives of acquired intangible assets.
com 101 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 4.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued e Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Groups balance sheet includes significant goodwill and other intangible assets.
Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value-in-use.
Determining whether an asset is impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the CGU to which the asset has been allocated.
The value-in-use calculation is based on a discounted cash flow model.
The cash flows are derived from the budget for the next three years and do not include restructuring activities that the Group is not yet committed to or significant future investments that will enhance the assets performance of the CGU being tested.
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used as well as the expected future cash inflows and the growth rate used for the period beyond the three budgets.
The key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount for the different CGUs, including a sensitivity analysis, are disclosed and further explained in note 16. f Fair value measurement and valuation process In accounting for some of the Groups merger and acquisition transactions, and options to acquire equity shares, businesses and options are measured at fair value.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the fair values of FBA Invest SaS see note 33 and IF-JE Participaes Ltda see note 34 were determined by discounting the expected future cash flows of the businesses.
Forecasting the future cash flows and determining the appropriate discount rates to use required judgement and estimation.
Some of the Groups assets and liabilities are measured at fair value, particularly intangible assets acquired through acquisition.
In estimating fair value, the Group uses market observable data where available.
Where market observable data is not available recognised valuation methodologies are used.
Third party valuers are used when the Group doesnt have the necessary in-house skills.
Operating segments The Group has three reportable segments: United Kingdom, Denmark core business, and Other.
The non-core element of Denmark has been included in the Other segment in the following table.
Each segment includes businesses with similar operating characteristics.
Underlying EBITDA is the main measure of profit used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to assess and manage performance.
The CODM is David Buttress, the Groups Chief Executive Officer.
Underlying EBITDA is defined as earnings before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and additionally excludes the Groups share of depreciation and amortisation of joint ventures and associates, long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, foreign exchange gains and losses and other gains and losses.
At a segmental level, Underlying EBITDA also excludes intra-group franchise fee arrangements and incorporates an allocation of Group technology and central costs both of which net out on a consolidated level.
Segment revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m United Kingdom 115.1 69.9 Less inter-segment sales 1.0 1.1 United Kingdom 114.1 68.8 Denmark 12.8 11.6 Other 29.8 16.3 Total segment revenue 156.7 96.7 Head Office 0.3 0.1 Total Revenue 157.0 96.8 Total 2014 revenues in Denmark including the non-core Just Delivery business, which has been included in the Other segment were 14.6 million 2013: 13.3 million.
102 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 5.
Operating segments continued The Groups revenue is generated as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Commission 119.4 72.7 Payment card and administration fees 21.0 11.9 Connection fees 7.0 5.0 Top-placement 8.0 6.0 Other revenue 1.6 1.2 Total revenue 157.0 96.8 Segment Underlying EBITDA and result Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Notes m m United Kingdom 45.9 25.5 Denmark 5.1 4.6 Other 11.8 11.7 Total segment Underlying EBITDA 39.2 18.4 Share of equity accounted joint venture and associates excluding depreciation and amortisation 0.6 0.4 Head office costs 6.0 4.7 Underlying EBITDA 32.6 14.1 Long-term employee incentive costs 6 4.9 1.7 Exceptional items 7 2.7 1.0 Foreign exchange gains and losses 0.2 0.6 EBITDA 25.2 10.8 Depreciation Subsidiaries 3.3 2.7 Amortisation Acquired intangible assets 2.1 0.8 Amortisation Other assets 0.6 0.1 Depreciation and amortisation Joint venture and associates 0.2 0.4 Operating profit 19.0 6.8 Other gains 11 38.2 3.4 Finance income 12 0.4 0.2 Finance costs 12 0.2 0.2 Profit before tax 57.4 10.2 www.
com 103 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 5.
Operating segments continued Segment assets and liabilities Assets as at 31 December Liabilities as at 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 Notes m m m m United Kingdom 89.1 47.8 47.8 26.1 Denmark 11.0 10.3 4.6 4.5 Other 79.2 18.2 40.4 17.0 Total segment assets liabilities 179.3 76.3 92.8 47.6 Head office 501.7 315.1 233.4 134.8 Joint venture 19 7.4 Associates 20 13.2 0.4 Associate held for sale 20 0.2 694.4 399.2 326.2 182.4 Consolidation adjustments: Elimination of intercompany debtors creditors 247.5 143.4 247.5 143.4 Elimination of investments 185.0 162.0 Other consolidation adjustments 1.7 0.5 1.1 1.7 Total 263.6 94.3 79.8 40.7 Segment net book value of non-current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m United Kingdom 11.8 4.8 Denmark 2.1 2.0 Other 56.5 10.8 70.4 17.6 Head office 3.2 2.4 Joint venture and associates 13.2 7.8 Total 86.8 27.8 Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets Additions Depreciation and amortisation Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m United Kingdom 9.4 1.8 2.6 1.4 Denmark 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Other 50.5 5.2 2.1 1.4 60.0 7.1 4.9 3.0 Head office 0.8 1.4 1.1 0.6 Total 60.8 8.5 6.0 3.6 Additions include goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations, as well as purchases of tangible and intangible fixed assets.
104 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 6.
Long-term employee incentive costs The total expense recorded in relation to the long-term employee incentives was 4.9 million 2013: 1.7 million.
This charge is comprised 4.4 million 2013: 1.7 million in respect of share-based payments and 0.5 million 2013: nil in respect of employers social security costs on the exercise of options see note 37.
Exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Notes m m IPO costs 28 2.3 1.4 Acquisition related expenses 33 0.4 0.1 Impairment charges 16 0.3 Gain on release of contingent consideration provision 0.8 Total exceptional items 2.7 1.0 The IPO costs were the costs associated with the Companys listing and initial public offering in April 2014 that did not directly relate to the issue of new shares.
Further costs of 4.5 million were charged to the share premium account.
Acquisition costs relate to legal, third party due diligence and other third party costs incurred as a result of the Groups acquisitions.
The 2013 impairment charge of 0.3 million was in respect of the Groups Brazilian CGU.
The 2013 release of contingent consideration was consideration for the Groups acquisition of a joint venture that did not become payable as its performance targets were not met.
Operating profit Profit for the year has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Notes m m Total staff costs 9 52.0 36.1 Exceptional items 7 2.7 1.0 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 0.6 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Operating lease charges 35 2.5 1.8 Net bad debt expense 23 0.3 0.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18 3.3 2.7 Amortisation of intangible assets Acquired intangible assets 17 2.1 0.8 Amortisation of intangible assets Other assets 17 0.6 0.1 9.
Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Number Number The average number of full time equivalent persons employed during the year including Executive Directors was: 1,018 886 1,018 886 Analysed by function, the average number of full time equivalent persons employed during the year was: operations 516: technology and product 114: sales 185: marketing 65: and management and administration 138. www.
com 105 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 9.
Staff costs continued Staff remuneration, including that in respect of the Directors, comprised: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 41.4 31.3 Social security costs 5.1 2.7 Pension costs 0.6 0.4 Long-term employee incentive costs see note 6 4.9 1.7 52.0 36.1 Details of the Directors remuneration are included in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 80.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group obtained the following services from its Auditors: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 000 000 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for the audit of the Companys financial statements 90 75 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 140 140 Total Deloitte audit fees 230 215 Non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP and its associates: Audit-related assurance services 59 64 Taxation compliance services 18 24 Taxation advisory services 139 82 Corporate finance services 534 443 Other services 18 Total non-audit fees 750 631 Total Deloitte fees 980 846 Fees payable to other Auditors for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 86 23 Details of the Companys policy on the use of the auditors for non-audit services and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 57.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
The corporate finance services provided were principally in respect of the Companys listing and initial public offering.
Other gains Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Notes m m Gain in respect of FBA Invest 33 32.0 Gain on disposal of Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA 34 5.8 Fair value gain on convertible debt 38 0.4 Gain on deemed disposal of Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited 0.3 Gain on deemed disposal of Eat.
ch GmbH 3.1 Total other gains 38.2 3.4 106 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 12.
Finance income and finance costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Interest received on bank deposits 0.4 0.2 Finance income 0.4 0.2 Unwind of discount on provisions and long-term liabilities 0.2 0.2 Finance costs 0.2 0.2 13.
Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Current taxation Current year 6.3 3.6 Adjustment for prior years 0.1 0.1 6.4 3.5 Deferred taxation see note 21 Temporary timing differences 0.8 0.2 Adjustment for prior years 0.1 0.8 0.1 Total tax charge for the year 5.6 3.4 UK corporation tax was calculated at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% of the taxable profit for the year.
As announced in the March 2013 Budget, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014.
Accordingly, the effective rate for the year ended 31 December 2014 was 21.5%.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Taxation on items taken directly to other comprehensive income was a credit of 2.3 million and relates to tax arising on share-based payments.
More information on the calculation of deferred tax is provided in note 21. www.
com 107 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 13.
Taxation continued The total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows: Year ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 December 2013 Before Before adjusting Adjusting adjusting Adjusting items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Profit before tax 28.7 28.7 57.4 10.9 0.7 10.2 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 6.1 6.2 12.3 2.5 0.1 2.4 Income expenses non-deductible non-taxable 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.3 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 Profit on the deemed disposals of businesses 8.1 8.1 0.8 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 0.1 0.1 Other overseas taxes 1.1 1.1 0.9 0.9 Change in unrecognised deferred tax asset 0.5 0.5 0.9 0.9 Reduction in tax rate in UK 0.1 0.1 Total tax charge for the year 6.5 0.9 5.6 4.1 0.7 3.4 Effective tax rate 22.6% 9.8% 37.6% 33.3% The effective tax rate on underlying profits i. e. profits before adjusting items was 22.6% 2013: 37.6%.
The adjusting items comprise long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, other gains, foreign exchange gains and losses, amortisation in respect of acquired intangible assets and their associated tax impact.
Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences have not been recognised in tax jurisdictions where there is insufficient evidence that the asset will be recovered.
The amount of the asset not recognised at 31 December 2014 was 4.8 million 2013: 7.6 million.
The asset would be recognised if sufficient suitable taxable profits were made in the future and the recovery of the asset became probable.
See note 21 for further details.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Deferred tax assets not recognised Accelerated capital allowances 0.1 Short-term temporary differences 0.2 Unrelieved tax losses 3.8 6.0 Share-based payments 0.4 1.3 Unrelieved tax losses in joint venture and associates 0.5 0.2 Research and development 0.1 4.8 7.6 14.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share was calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to the shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, excluding unvested shares held pursuant to the Groups JSOP and SIP.
Prior to the 8 April 2014, holders of the B Ordinary Shares had rights to share in profits which differed to those of the holders of Ordinary shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares.
Earnings per share figures have therefore been presented separately for the B Ordinary shares, up until 8 April 2014.
The B Ordinary Shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares were reclassified as Ordinary Shares on 8 April 2014.
108 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 14.
Earnings per share continued The B Ordinary shareholders were only entitled to dividends after aggregate distributions of 18.25 million had been made to the holders of Ordinary shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares.
Prior to 8 April 2014, aggregate distributions of this amount had not been made.
As a result no earnings are attributable to the Ordinary B Shares in the earnings per share EPS calculations.
Diluted earnings per share was calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares outstanding to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive shares.
The Group had potentially dilutive shares in the form of share options, warrants and unvested shares held pursuant to the Groups JSOP and SIP.
Adjusted earnings per share is the main measure of earnings per share used by the Group and is calculated using underlying profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary shares in the parent, which is defined as profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary shares in the parent, before long-term employee incentive costs, exceptional items, other gains being profits or losses on the disposal and deemed disposal of operations, and fair value gains and losses, foreign exchange gains and losses and the tax impact of the adjusting items.
Additionally, adjusted EPS now excludes amortisation of acquired intangible assets and its tax impact, as the Directors believe its a more appropriate measure of the underlying performance of the Group.
This change in the definition of adjusted EPS did not change the reported adjusted EPS for the year ended 31 December 2013, of 1.4p.
Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary Shares in the parent 52.0 7.0 Long-term employee incentive costs 4.9 1.7 Exceptional items 2.7 1.0 Other gains 38.2 3.4 Foreign exchange gains and losses 0.2 0.6 Amortisation in respect of acquired intangible assets 2.1 0.8 Tax impact of the adjusting items 0.9 0.7 Adjusted profit attributable to the holders of Ordinary Shares in the parent 22.4 7.0 Profit attributable to the holders of B Ordinary Shares in the parent Number of shares 000 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for basic earnings per share 533,278 477,792 Effect of dilution: Share options 10,713 Unvested JSOP and SIP shares 8,593 Warrants 1,540 5,286 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 554,124 483,078 Weighted average number of B Ordinary Shares for basic earnings per share 6,959 21,714 Effect of dilution: Share options 2,729 8,651 Unvested JSOP shares 450 4,439 Weighted average number of B Ordinary Shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 10,138 34,804 www.
com 109 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 14.
Earnings per share continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Pence Pence Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 9.8 1.5 Diluted 9.4 1.4 Earnings per B Ordinary Share Basic Diluted Adjusted earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 4.2 1.4 Diluted 4.0 1.4 15.
Dividends On 2 April 2014, the Directors declared a dividend of 18.25 million 31 December 2013: nil, to be paid to the holders of Preference A shares, Preference B shares, Preference C shares and Ordinary shares pro-rata to their holding of shares in the Company.
The dividend was paid, on 8 April 2014, immediately prior to the reclassification of Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares as Ordinary Shares see note 28.
A small part of this dividend was earned by Appleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited, the Groups Employee Benefit Trustee.
The dividend disclosed in these consolidated financial statements 18.1 million, is stated net of the amount of the dividend earned by the Groups Employee Benefit Trustee.
Goodwill Total Notes m Carrying amount as at 1 January 2013 7.0 Change in provisional acquisition accounting 0.6 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 3.0 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 Impairment charges 0.3 Carrying amount at 31 December 2013 10.2 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 43.1 Foreign exchange losses 1.4 Disposal of Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA 34 0.7 At 31 December 2014 51.2 Accumulated impairment losses at 31 December 2014 were 5.6 million 2013: 6.4 million.
110 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 16.
Goodwill continued Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated on acquisition to the Cash Generating Units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated as follows: Goodwill allocated by CGU As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Acquisition Country of operation CGU m m Urbanbite Limited, EatStudent Ltd, FillMyBelly Limited and Meal 2 Order.
com Limited United Kingdom Just-eat.
co. uk 2.7 0.9 Orogo Limited United Kingdom Orogo 0.6 Just Eat.
dk 1.8 1.8 Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA Brazil RestauranteWeb.
ch 2.9 3.1 SinDelantal Internet, S. L. Spain Just-eat.
es 2.5 2.7 FBA Invest SaS France Alloresto.
fr 38.8 Eatcity Limited Ireland Just-eat.
ie 0.9 Others across several CGUs 1.0 1.0 51.2 10.2 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are the discount rate and the Underlying EBITDA growth rate which is a function of expected changes in selling prices and costs, together with other factors.
Management uses pre-tax discount rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the particular CGU.
The Underlying EBITDA growth rates are based on past experience and managements future expectations.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on recent results and expectations of future changes in the market.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts based on the most recent financial budgets approved by the Board.
Management expects that some markets will enjoy a period of sustained high growth continuing from the end of the current budgetary cycle to maturity the medium-term.
During this period each CGU will continue to acquire new consumers and increase order activity above and beyond the long-term growth rate applicable to each market.
Management expects that all CGUs will reach maturity after a period in excess of five years and therefore considers it appropriate for the forecasts to extend beyond a five year period.
A suitable mediumterm growth rate, based on previous experience of growth rates has been applied individually to reflect each CGUs activity in this period.
After this a long-term growth rate is applied.
This is typically seven years from the start of the budget forecast period.
The rates used to discount the forecast cash flows were in the range of 10.6% to 18.4% for all geographies 2013: 9.0% to 22.7%.
The long-term growth rates used in the forecast cash flows were in the range of 1.6% to 2.2% 2013: 1.4% to 2.1%.
Year ended 31 December 2014 For all CGUs, the value-in-use was in excess of the carrying value of the CGU.
As a result no impairment was required.
Year ended 31 December 2013 An impairment charge of 0.3 million was charged to the income statement in respect of the Brazilian CGU.
Sensitivity analysis The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test for each CGU.
This included reducing the future cash flows and increasing discount rates.
For all CGUs, no reasonably expected change in the key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would give rise to an impairment charge.
com 111 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 17.
Other intangible assets Patents, Restaurant Development licences and IP contracts Brands costs Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 0.3 4.7 0.4 5.4 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.7 0.3 1.0 Change in provisional acquisition accounting 1.2 1.2 Transfer from tangible assets 0.2 0.2 Additions 0.6 0.5 1.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 1.1 4.1 0.7 0.5 6.4 Transfer from tangible assets 0.1 0.1 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 3.0 3.8 4.1 10.9 Additions 1.3 1.3 Transfer from development costs 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 At 31 December 2014 5.9 7.7 4.7 18.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 0.3 1.8 0.1 2.2 Charge for the year 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.9 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 0.4 2.1 0.5 3.0 Transfer from tangible assets 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 1.5 0.9 0.3 2.7 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2014 1.9 2.9 0.8 5.6 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 4.0 4.8 3.9 12.7 At 31 December 2013 0.7 2.0 0.2 0.5 3.4 All intangible assets have finite lives.
The amortisation periods for patents, licences and IP are three years.
The amortisation periods for brands and restaurant contracts are between three and ten years.
The cash outflow in respect of additions of intangible assets was 1.0 million 2013: 0.7 million.
112 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 18.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures and Leasehold fittings Equipment improvements Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 1.9 5.6 1.0 8.5 Transfer to intangibles 0.2 0.2 Additions 0.9 2.3 0.1 3.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.1 Disposals 0.1 0.8 0.9 At 31 December 2013 2.5 7.3 1.1 10.9 Transfer to intangibles 0.1 0.1 Additions 1.8 2.6 1.0 5.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.2 0.3 Disposals 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.8 At 31 December 2014 3.9 9.2 2.1 15.2 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.5 2.9 0.1 3.5 Charge for the year 0.7 1.7 0.3 2.7 Disposals 0.8 0.8 At 31 December 2013 1.2 3.8 0.4 5.4 Transfer to intangibles 0.1 0.1 Charge for the year 0.9 1.9 0.5 3.3 Disposals 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 2014 1.9 5.3 0.8 8.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2014 2.0 3.9 1.3 7.2 At 31 December 2013 1.3 3.5 0.7 5.5 All tangible assets have finite lives.
The useful economic lives of all asset categories is three years.
The exception to this is leasehold assets, which are depreciated over five years or the period of the lease if shorter.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment totalling 0.6 million 2013: 0.6 million.
com 113 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 19.
Investment in joint venture Carrying value of joint venture under equity accounting method 2014 2013 m m Investment in joint venture as at 1 January 7.4 7.1 Share of post-tax profits 0.1 Foreign currency translation differences 0.2 0.2 FBA Invest SaS becoming a subsidiary 7.2 At 31 December 7.4 The investment in joint venture relates to FBA Invest SaS FBA which owns 100% of the share capital of Eat On Line Sa, the company trading under the brand ALLORESTO.
The Group acquired 50% of FBA on 23 December 2011.
In July 2014 the Group increased its holding in FBA by 30%, thereby obtaining control.
From this time FBA was accounted for as a subsidiary.
See note 33 for further details of this step acquisition.
A gain of 17.8 million was recorded on the deemed disposal of the joint venture interest in FBA.
This gain was calculated as follows: m Fair value of consideration received 25.5 fide-recognition of joint venture interest 7.2 fide-recognition of cumulative foreign translation losses recognised in equity 0.5 Gain on deemed disposal of joint venture interest in FBA 17.8 The fair value of the consideration received was based on the Directors valuation of FBA.
Summary consolidated financial information for FBA: Six months Year ended ended 31 December 30 June 2014 2013 m m Revenue 4.3 6.5 Underlying EBITDA 0.3 0.5 Profit after tax 0.1 0.1 The Groups 50% share of FBAs profit after tax 0.1 As at As at 30 June 31 December 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 2.8 2.3 Other current assets 0.4 0.1 Total current assets 3.2 2.4 Non-current assets 4.8 5.0 Total assets 8.0 7.4 Current liabilities 3.0 2.4 Non-current liabilities 1.4 1.6 Total liabilities 4.4 4.0 Net assets 3.6 3.4 50% interest in joint ventures net assets 1.8 1.7 Goodwill 5.4 5.7 Carrying value of interest in joint venture 7.2 7.4 0.2 million 2013: 0.4 million of depreciation and amortisation is included within the Groups share of the post-tax losses of the joint venture and associates.
114 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 20.
Investments in associates Carrying value of associates under equity accounting method 2014 2013 m m Balance as at 1 January 0.4 Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited becoming an associate 0.5 Increase in investment in Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited 0.1 IF-JE Participaes Ltda becoming an associate 14.3 Share of post-tax losses of Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited 0.5 0.1 Share of post-tax losses of IF-JE Participaes Ltda 0.3 Foreign currency translation differences 0.6 Transfer of Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited to assets held for sale 0.2 At 31 December 13.2 0.4 IF-JE Participaes Ltda IF-JE On 3 November 2014, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA JE Brazil merged with the iFood group.
Following the merger the Group held a minority shareholding of 25% in the holding company of the merged group, IF-JE.
IF-JE wholly owns JE Brazil and the iFood group.
The Groups interest in IF-JE has been accounted for as an associate undertaking in accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 28.
Details of the disposal of JE Brazil and the acquisition of the associated interest in IF-JE are included in note 34.
Summarised consolidated financial information in respect of IF-JE Participaes Ltda from 3 November 2014 to 31 December 2014 and as at 31 December 2014 is set out below: Period ended 31 December 2014 m Revenue 1.1 Underlying EBITDA 1.2 Loss after tax 1.2 The Groups share of IF-JEs loss after tax 0.3 As at 31 December 2014 m Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 Other assets 4.5 Total assets 6.2 Total liabilities 6.1 Net assets 0.1 25% interest in associated undertakings net assets Transaction costs 0.3 Goodwill 12.9 Carrying value of interest in associated undertaking 13.2 Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited justeat.
in In January 2015 the Group sold its shares in Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited to foodpanda.
Accordingly, the Groups investment in justeat.
in was included in the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2014 as an asset held for sale, at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and carrying amount.
com 115 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 20.
Investments in associates continued Summarised financial information in respect of justeat.
The comparative information is set out below for the period from 14 November 2013, when justeat.
in became an associated undertaking, to 31 December 2013: Year ended Period ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Revenue 0.3 Underlying EBITDA 0.9 0.1 Loss after tax 1.0 0.1 The Groups share of just-eat.
ins loss after tax 0.5 0.1 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.8 Other net liabilities 0.1 Net assets 0.4 0.8 49.9% interest in justeat.
ins net assets 0.2 0.4 Goodwill Carrying value of interest in associated undertaking 0.2 0.4 21.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided for as follows: Short-term Share-based temporary Acquired Acquired Losses payment differences intangibles intangibles assets assets assets assets liabilities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 0.2 0.6 0.7 0.1 Reclassification 0.1 0.2 0.1 Debit credit to the income statement 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Prior year adjustment 0.2 0.1 0.1 Amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2013 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.5 Reclassification 0.2 0.2 Debit credit to the income statement 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.4 0.9 Credit to equity 1.0 1.0 Amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 3.1 2.8 At 31 December 2014 0.5 1.3 0.7 2.9 0.4 As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Analysed as: Deferred tax liability 2.9 0.4 Deferred tax asset 2.5 0.9 Net deferred tax liability asset 0.4 0.5 Deferred tax is provided in respect of temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and is determined using the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered.
116 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 22.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Finished goods 0.9 0.8 Inventories are comprised of packaging materials and consumable items sold to restaurants.
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stock and its replacement cost.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Amount receivable for the provision of services 2.6 1.4 Allowance for doubtful debts 0.7 0.4 1.9 1.0 Other debtors 5.7 0.2 Prepayments 2.6 2.4 Amounts due from joint venture and associates 0.3 10.2 3.9 As at 31 December 2013, the amounts due from joint venture and associates related to services provided to justeat.
in and Eat On Line Sa, but paid for by the Group.
Trade receivables Trade receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The average age of the trade receivables as at 31 December 2014 was 72 days 2013: 67 days.
As at 31 December 2014, 42% 2013: 43% of the trade receivables were less than 30 days old, 15% 2013: 14% were between 30 and 60 days old, 8% 2013: 7% were between 60 and 90 days old and 35% 2013: 36% were over 90 days old.
The Group has reviewed all balances and has made an allowance for debts which are considered unlikely to be collectable based on past default experience, and an analysis of the counterpartys current financial position.
Allowances against doubtful debts are recognised against trade receivables.
Trade receivables disclosed above include amounts which are past due at the reporting date but against which the Group has not recognised an allowance for doubtful receivables because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances.
Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts: 2014 2013 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 0.4 0.4 Recognised on acquisition of subsidiary 0.1 Impairment losses recognised 0.3 0.3 Amounts written off during the year 0.1 0.2 Amounts recovered during the year 0.1 At 31 December 0.7 0.4 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the consumer base being large and unrelated.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, after taking into account the allowance for doubtful debts, is approximately equal to their fair value.
At 31 December 2014 0.7 million 2013: 0.3 million of the allowance for doubtful debts was in respect of receivables more than 120 days old.
com 117 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 24.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Trade creditors 33.3 20.2 Other creditors and accruals 19.7 9.2 Other taxes and social security 6.1 4.0 59.1 33.4 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
Included in the trade creditors balance are amounts owed to restaurants 2014: 27.7 million: 2013: 16.2 million.
These amounts are typically settled on a fortnightly basis.
The average credit period taken for restaurants is 8 days 2013: 7 days.
For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade payables for the first 30 days from the date of the invoice.
The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Deferred revenue As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Current deferred revenue 4.0 4.0 Non-current deferred revenue 1.3 1.2 5.3 5.2 JCTs used by restaurants are paid for up front.
This revenue is deferred over 36 months.
A connection fee is also charged when restaurants join the network.
This revenue is recognised over a 12 month period.
Provisions for liabilities 2014 2013 Notes m m Balance at 1 January 0.1 0.7 Contingent consideration arising on acquisition of Power & Power Inc. 0.1 Forward contracts to acquire non-controlling interests 33 9.1 Provision for employers social security on exercise of employee share options 37 0.5 Utilisation of provision for social security on exercise of employee share options 37 0.2 Unwinding of the present value of the non-current provision 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 Released to the income statement 7 0.8 Balance at 31 December 9.5 0.1 This is split between current and non-current liabilities as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Current 0.2 Non-current 9.3 0.1 9.5 0.1 118 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 26.
Provisions for liabilities continued The provision in respect of the forward contracts to acquire non-controlling interests related to the Groups commitments to buy-out the minority shareholders, of both FBA Invest SaS and Orogo Limited, in 2017.
The amounts payable are dependent on the results of the businesses at the time.
As at 31 December 2014, 0.3 million 2013: nil of the provisions relate to employers social security costs that crystallise on the exercise of share options by employees.
A further 0.1 million 2013: 0.1 million relates to the purchase of Power & Power Inc in January 2013, and becomes payable in February 2017 if Just Eat Canada Inc. meets certain performance targets in 2016.
Other long-term liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Deferred consideration in respect of Power & Power Inc. 0.4 0.3 Other long-term creditors 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.5 The deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition Power & Power Inc. is payable in January 2016.
The other long-term creditor is payable in 2016 and relates to the purchase of a software licence.
Share capital Number of issued shares 000 Ordinary B Ordinary Preference Preference Preference Total shares shares A shares B shares C shares Total m At 1 January 2013 8,355 1,001 4,973 1,809 2,503 18,641 0.1 Shares issued 6 6 Options exercised 18 18 JSOP shares issued 46 46 Transfer to share premium 0.1 At 1 January 2014 8,407 1,019 4,973 1,809 2,503 18,711 Options exercised before bonus issue and consolidation 6 6 Issue of shares JSOP 424 424 Bonus share issue 23,835,954 2,765,862 13,422,667 4,881,211 6,755,249 51,660,943 5.2 Share consolidation 23,606,337 2,739,218 13,293,364 4,834,190 6,690,174 51,163,283 Share capital after consolidation 238,448 27,669 134,276 48,830 67,578 516,801 5.2 Options exercised between bonus issue and consolidation and IPO 2,121 2,121 Reclassification to Ordinary Shares on IPO 280,474 29,790 134,276 48,830 67,578 Issue of shares on IPO 38,462 38,462 0.4 Warrants exercised on IPO 6,210 6,210 0.1 SIP issue of shares 250 250 Options exercised after IPO 4,265 4,265 At 31 December 2014 568,109 568,109 5.7 On 20 March 2014 the Companys share premium account was reduced by 40.0 million by way of a reduction of capital.
On the same day the Company conducted a bonus issue of 2,699 shares for every one Ordinary Share, B Ordinary share, Preference A share, Preference B share and Preference C share in issue.
This was followed by a consolidation of each of the Ordinary Shares, B Ordinary shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares such that the nominal value of each share increased from 0.0001 to 0.01.
On 24 March 2014 the Company re-registered as JUST EAT plc.
com 119 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 28.
Share capital continued On 8 April 2014 the Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the High Growth Segment of the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange the Listing.
In conjunction, the Company made an initial public offering IPO of 38.5 million new one pence Ordinary Shares at a price of 260 pence per share.
Also on this date, immediately prior to the Listing, 29.8 million B Ordinary shares, 134.3 million Preference A shares, 48.8 million Preference B shares and 67.6 million Preference C shares converted to Ordinary Shares.
Costs that related directly to the issue of new shares have been deducted from the share premium account.
IPO costs that related to both the Listing and issue of new shares have been allocated between the share premium account and the income statement in proportion to the number of primary and secondary shares traded on admission.
As a result, during the year ended 31 December 2014, IPO costs totalling 4.5 million have been charged to the share premium account and IPO costs of 2.3 million were charged to the income statement.
IPO costs of 1.4 million were charged to the income statement during the year ended 31 December 2013.
On 6 May 2014 the Companys shares were admitted to trading on the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
This change had no effect on the issued share capital of the Company.
As at 31 December 2013, 45,500 Ordinary Shares and 222,700 B Ordinary shares had been issued to Appleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited under the Groups Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP arrangement.
As at 31 December 2013, these shares were partly paid.
This was in line with standard practice for such JSOP arrangements.
These shares were fully paid up prior to the IPO, and all shares are now fully paid.
Ordinary shares Ordinary Shares have a par value of 0.01 each, and entitle the holders to receive notice, attend, speak and vote at general meetings.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to distributions of available profits pro-rata to their respective holdings of shares.
B Ordinary shares B Ordinary shares had a par value of 0.01 each, and did not entitle the holders to receive notice, attend, speak or vote at any general meeting.
The B Ordinary shares were convertible into Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis, upon the satisfaction of a range of criteria as set out in the Companys Articles.
Holders of B Ordinary shares were entitled to distributions of available profits together with the holders of Ordinary shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares pari passu as if the all the classes shares constituted one class of share pro-rata to their respective holdings of shares, only after aggregate distributions of 18.25 million had been made to the holders of Ordinary Shares, Preference A shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares.
The B Ordinary shares were converted into Ordinary Shares on 8 April 2014.
Preference A shares Preference A shares had a par value of 0.01 each, and entitled the holders to receive notice, attend, speak and vote at general meetings.
The Preference A shares were convertible at any time into Ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis, subject to the majority of Preference A shareholders serving notice to the Company.
Holders of Preference A shares were entitled to distributions of available profits together with the holders of Ordinary shares, Preference B shares and Preference C shares, and, to the extent that the aggregate amount of distributions, both paid to date and for the current financial year, exceed 18.25 million, with the B Ordinary shareholders pari passu as if the all the classes shares constituted one class of share pro-rata to their respective holdings of shares.
The Preference A shares were converted into Ordinary Shares on 8 April 2014.
Preference B shares Preference B shares had a par value of 0.01 each, and entitled the holders to receive notice, attend, speak and vote at general meetings.
The Preference B shares were convertible at any time into Ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis, subject to the majority of Preference B shareholders serving notice to the Company.
Holders of Preference B shares were entitled to distributions of available profits together with the holders of Ordinary Shares, Preference A shares and Preference C shares, and, to the extent that the aggregate amount of distributions, both paid to date and for the current financial year, exceed 18.25 million, with the B Ordinary shareholders pari passu as if the all the classes shares constituted one class of share pro-rata to their respective holdings of shares.
The Preference B shares were converted into Ordinary Shares on 8 April 2014.
120 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 28.
Share capital continued Preference C shares Preference C shares had a par value of 0.01 each, and entitled the holders to receive notice, attend, speak and vote at general meetings.
The Preference C shares were convertible at any time into Ordinary shares on a one-for-one basis, subject to the majority of Preference C shareholders serving notice to the Company.
Holders of Preference C shares were entitled to distributions of available profits together with the holders of Ordinary shares, Preference A shares and Preference B shares, and, to the extent that the aggregate amount of distributions, both paid to date and for the current financial year, exceed 18.25 million, with the B Ordinary shareholders pari passu as if the all the classes shares constituted one class of share pro-rata to their respective holdings of shares.
The Preference C shares were converted into Ordinary shares on 8 April 2014.
Share premium account Notes m At 1 January 2013 55.6 Transfer from share capital 0.1 Arising on issue of shares 0.1 At 31 December 2013 55.8 Issue of shares JSOP 39 13.2 Bonus share issue 28 5.2 Share consolidation 28 40.0 Share premium after consolidation 23.8 Arising on issue of shares on IPO 99.6 IPO share issue costs 28 4.5 Arising on warrants exercised on IPO 0.4 Arising on issue of shares under the JUST EAT Share Incentive Plan SIP 0.7 Arising on exercise of share options 0.5 At 31 December 2014 120.5 30.
Other reserves Treasury Translation Merger shares reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 0.5 1.9 1.4 Currency translation differences Group 0.1 0.1 Currency translation differences Joint venture and associates 0.2 0.2 Treasury shares 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2013 0.4 1.9 0.2 1.3 Currency translation differences Group 1.9 1.9 Currency translation differences Joint venture and associates 0.8 0.8 JSOP subscription 7.9 7.9 Exercise of JSOP awards 0.1 0.1 SIP subscription 0.6 0.6 Reclassified to income statement notes 19, 34 3.5 3.5 At 31 December 2014 0.4 1.9 8.6 6.3 www.
com 121 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 30.
Other reserves continued Translation reserve Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets, income and expenses of the Groups foreign operations, from their functional currency into the parents reporting currency, being Pound Sterling, are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
Merger reserve In July 2009 a group reconstruction was undertaken.
Under this reconstruction Ordinary Shares were issued and cancelled and Preference A shares were issued.
This was treated as a common control transaction under IFRS as the ultimate shareholders and their relative rights were the same before and afterwards.
This reserve represents the difference between the nominal value of the shares issued and the nominal value of the shares on the group reorganisation in July 2009.
The balance of this account has not changed and remains at 1.9 million as at 31 December 2014.
Treasury shares reserve This reserve arose when the Group issued equity share capital under its JSOP and SIP, which are held in trust by the trustee of the Groups employee benefit trust EBT.
See note 37 for more information on the JSOP and SIP.
Retained earnings accumulated losses Notes m At 1 January 2013 10.4 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 7.0 Credit to equity in respect of the share based payment charge 37 1.7 Adjustments arising from changes in NCI: Buy-out of minority shareholdings in Just Eat Canada Inc. 2.1 Justeat.
in 0.1 At 31 December 2013 3.9 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 52.0 Credit to equity in respect of the share based payment charge 37 4.4 Tax on share options 2.3 Capital reduction 28 40.0 Dividend for the year 15 18.1 Adjustment arising on change in holding in justeat.
in 0.2 Forward contracts to acquire non-controlling interests in: FBA Invest SaS in 2017 33 10.2 Orogo Limited in 2017 33 3.6 At 31 December 2014 63.1 Under IAS 12, to the extent that the tax deduction available on the exercise of share options is equal to, or is less than, the cumulative share-based payment charge calculated under IFRS 2, current and deferred tax is recognised through the income statement.
However, when the tax deduction is greater than the cumulative expense, the incremental current tax deduction and deferred tax recognition is recognised in equity.
122 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 32.
Non-controlling interest Notes m At 1 January 2013 0.3 Share of loss for the year 0.2 Adjustment to NCI on Eat.
ch becoming a subsidiary 0.4 Adjustment to NCI on increase in the Groups ownership interest in Eat.
ch 0.1 Buyout of Just Eat Canada Inc. minority shareholdings 0.4 At 31 December 2013 0.4 Share of loss for the year 0.2 Adjustment to NCI on acquisition of Orogo Ltd 33 0.3 Adjustment to NCI on FBA Invest SaS becoming a subsidiary 33 0.3 At 31 December 2014 0.8 FBA Invest SaS The following table sets out the summary consolidated financial information in respect of FBA Invest SaS as at and for the six months ended 31 December 2014.
Six months ended 31 December 2014 m Revenue 4.8 Underlying EBITDA 0.3 Loss after tax 0.3 As at 31 December 2014 m Cash 3.8 Other current assets 1.1 Total current assets 4.9 Non-current assets 7.1 Total assets 12.0 Current liabilities 8.5 Non-current liabilities 2.3 Total liabilities 10.8 Net assets 1.2 Non-controlling interest 0.2 Summary financial information is not provided in respect of Eat.
ch or Orogo Limited, as their non-controlling interests are not material to the Group.
com 123 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 33. Business combinations FBA Invest Meal2Go Other Total SaS m m m m Fair values of net assets acquired: Cash 2.8 0.5 3.3 Borrowings 0.5 0.5 Loans from selling shareholders 0.7 0.7 Intangible assets Restaurant contracts 3.4 0.2 0.2 3.8 Intangible assets Brand 4.1 4.1 Intangible assets Other 0.4 2.3 0.3 3.0 Deferred tax asset in respect of losses 0.1 0.2 0.3 Deferred tax liability on intangible assets 2.5 0.5 0.1 3.1 Receivables 1.2 1.2 Other net assets 7.6 0.4 0.1 7.3 1.4 1.9 0.8 4.1 Goodwill 39.7 1.8 1.6 43.1 Non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 0.6 Total consideration 40.8 3.7 2.1 46.6 Satisfied by: Cash 5.8 3.0 2.1 10.9 Fair value of previously held interest 25.5 25.5 Fair value of option 9.5 9.5 Capital contribution 0.7 0.7 40.8 3.7 2.1 46.6 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 5.8 3.0 2.1 10.9 Repayment of shareholder loans 0.7 0.7 Cash acquired 2.8 0.5 3.3 Debt acquired 0.5 0.5 Net cash outflow 3.5 3.7 1.6 8.8 Contribution since control obtained: Revenue 4.8 n a n a Underlying EBITDA 0.3 n a n a If the acquisitions had completed on 1 January 2014 they would have contributed the following results for the year ended 31 December 2014: FBA Invest Meal2Go Other Total SaS m m m m Revenue 9.1 n a n a Underlying EBITDA 0.6 n a n a Transaction costs incurred on acquisition 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Immediately after acquisition, Meal2Gos orders were diverted to Justeat.
co. uk Limited, from which time it was not possible to track separately the results of Meal2Go.
Similarly, Eatcitys orders were immediately diverted to Just-Eat Ireland Limited.
As a result it is not possible to disclose the post-acquisition contribution of these businesses.
The FBA acquisition accounting is provisional in certain respects.
124 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 33. Business combinations continued Net cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries The net cash outflow on acquisition of subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2014 is shown within the table above.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the net cash outflow of 3.7 million principally related to the buy-out of the Just Eat Canada Inc. minority shareholders 1.3 million and deferred consideration payments in respect of the Groups 2012 acquisition of Just-Eat Benelux BV 2.2 million.
FBA Invest SAS On 23 December 2011 the Group acquired 50% of the share capital of FBA Invest SaS FBA, which owns 100% of the share capital of Eat OnLine Sa EOL, the company trading under the brand ALLORESTO.
At the time of acquiring the shareholding, the Group entered into a joint venture agreement with the other shareholders: which contained two options.
The Group had the first option to buy 30-50% more of the shareholding not already held, thus obtaining between 80-100% of FBAs share capital.
The second option was held by the other 50% shareholders and only became exercisable should the aforementioned option lapse.
It was at the JV partners discretion to determine how much of the first option above 30% could be exercised.
In June 2014 the Group received notification that the option was over 30% of the share capital of FBA.
The Group exercised the option in July 2014, thereby obtaining control of FBA.
The consideration paid, of 5.8 million, was based on a pre-determined range of prices set out in the 2011 share purchase agreement.
At this point, the Group became committed to acquiring the minority 20% shareholder in 2017.
The amount payable in 2017 is dependent upon the performance of EOL at that time.
The Directors have estimated that the amount payable in 2017 will be 6.9 million.
As a result a provision of 5.6 million was established in July 2014, being the discounted Pound Sterling amount of the estimated amount payable.
Up until July 2014, the Groups 50% interest in FBA was accounted for as a joint venture using the equity accounting method.
From the time the Group obtained control of FBA, in July 2014, FBA and EOL were accounted for as subsidiaries.
As obtaining control of FBA and EOL was achieved in stages, the provisions of IFRS 3 relating to step-acquisitions have been applied.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of FBA and EOL was principally attributable to the future growth of EOLs business, through expansion of the network of restaurant partners and through growth in the numbers of orders per restaurant.
In addition, the goodwill balance represented the value of EOLs active consumer base and its assembled workforce.
The goodwill balance will not be deductible for tax purposes.
A gain of 32.0 million was recognised as a result of the transactions surrounding the acquisition of FBA.
This gain was comprised as follows: m Gain on deemed disposal of joint venture interest in FBA note 19 17.8 Fair value gain in respect of the second completion option 9.5 Fair value gain in relation to minority shareholder buy-out 4.7 Total gain recognised in the income statement 32.0 The gains are based on the Directors valuation of FBA and EOL.
The gain on the deemed disposal of the joint venture interest represents the fair value of the consideration received of 25.5 million, less the carrying value of the joint venture interest, of 7.2 million and the cumulative foreign currency translation differences previously booked to equity, of 0.5 million.
The fair value gain in respect of the second completion option represents the difference between the fair value of the additional 30% shareholding in FBA, of 15.4 million and the amount paid for the holding, of 5.8 million.
At the time the Directors estimate of the cost of exercising the second completion option equated to their estimate of the fair value of the holding that would be acquired through exercising the option.
The fair value gain in relation to the minority shareholder buy-out provision represents the difference between the estimated fair value of the 20% minority shareholding in FBA, of 10.2 million, and the amount at which the Directors expect to acquire the holding for in 2017, of 5.5 million discounted for the time value of money.
The estimated fair value of the 20% minority shareholding in FBA, of 10.2 million, has been charged to equity.
The FBA acquisition accounting is provisional in respect of certain liabilities for which more information as to their fair value may come to light in the future.
com 125 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 33. Business combinations continued Meal2Go On 27 February 2014, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Meal2Order.
com Limited Meal2Go for cash consideration totalling 3.7 million, including the repayment of loans from the selling shareholders, of 0.7 million.
The Group obtained control of Meal2Go and as a result the acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Meal2Go was principally acquired for its leading EPOS Electronic Point-Of-Sale technology, specifically designed for the takeaway industry.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Meal2Go was attributable to the value of the Group being able to roll out Meal2Gos EPOS technology to its network of restaurants, the value associated with the Groups competitors not being able to own the EPOS technology and the value of Meal2Gos assembled workforce.
Other acquisitions Orogo Limited On 10 July 2014, the Group acquired 45% of the ordinary share capital of Orogo Limited Orogo.
On the same day it increased its holding to 60% through a share subscription, providing working capital to the business.
The Group obtained control of Orogo and as a result the acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination, in accordance with IFRS 3.
Orogo is an innovative collection only app, which enables consumers to order and pay for their lunch in advance and collect at their convenience, from some of central Londons most popular restaurants.
0.6 million of goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of Orogo.
The goodwill was attributable to the future growth of the business and the value to the Group of Orogos collection knowhow.
The Group is committed to acquiring the minority shareholdings in Orogo in 2017 for consideration based on the performance of the business at that time.
A provision of 3.6 million was established for this commitment, being the discounted for the time value of money fair value of the estimated consideration payable.
3.6 million has been charged to equity as a result.
ie On 3 November 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary share capital of Eatcity Limited Eatcity, which traded as Eatcity.
The Group obtained control of Eatcity and as a result the acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.
Goodwill of 0.9 million was recognised on the acquisition of Eatcity.
The goodwill was attributable to the future growth of the Eatcity business, expected synergy cost savings from merging the two businesses and the value associated with the Groups competitors not being able to acquire Eatcity.
Menu Express and Delivery Town During 2014, Just Eat Canada Inc purchased the assets of two small businesses.
Goodwill balances totalling 0.1 million were recognised in respect of these acquisitions.
Brazilian merger On 3 November 2014, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA JE Brazil, merged with the iFood group.
The Group contributed JE Brazil and 3.5 million of working capital to the merger.
In return it gained a 25% stake in the holding company of the merged group, IF-JE Participaes Ltda IF-JE.
A gain of 5.8 million was recorded on the disposal of JE Brazil.
This gain was calculated as follows: m Fair value of consideration received 14.0 Working capital contributed 3.5 fide-recognition of net assets of JE Brazil including 0.7 million of goodwill 1.7 fide-recognition of cumulative foreign translation losses recognised in equity 3.0 Gain on disposal of JE Brazil 5.8 The fair value of the consideration received was based on the Directors valuation of the iFood Group.
126 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 34.
Brazilian merger continued The Groups interest in IF-JE has been accounted for as an associated undertaking in accordance with IAS 28.
The acquisition of the interest in the associated undertaking has provisionally been accounted for as follows: m Provisional fair value of net assets acquired: Cash and cash equivalents 1.1 Restaurant contracts intangible asset 0.7 Deferred tax liability on intangible assets 0.2 Other net liabilities 0.9 0.7 Goodwill 13.6 Total consideration 14.3 m Satisfied by: Fair value of JE Brazil 10.5 Cash working capital contribution 3.5 Transaction costs 0.3 Total consideration 14.3 Net cash outflow arising on Brazilian merger: Cash working capital contribution 3.5 Transaction costs 0.3 Disposal of JE Brazil cash 0.6 Net cash outflow 4.4 The goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups stake in IF-JE principally related to the future growth of the business.
In addition, the goodwill represented the synergy cost savings that are expected from the merger and the value of the assembled workforce.
Due to the complexities of the merger, the IF-JE acquisition accounting is provisional in respect of the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
The results of IF-JE since the merger are disclosed in note 20.
Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 2.5 1.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: Plant and Plant and Property Equipment Property Equipment 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m Within one year 2.6 0.4 2.0 0.5 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.6 0.4 2.7 0.6 4.2 0.8 4.7 1.1 www.
com 127 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 36.
Net cash inflow from operating activities Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Operating profit for the year 19.0 6.8 Adjustments for: Share of results of joint venture and associates 0.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3.3 2.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 2.7 0.9 Non-cash long-term employee incentive costs 4.7 1.7 Other non-cash items 0.3 0.3 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 30.2 11.8 Increase in inventories 0.2 0.3 Increase in receivables 6.8 0.2 Increase in payables 19.2 10.6 Increase in deferred income 0.1 1.5 Cash generated by operations 42.5 23.4 Income taxes paid 4.4 4.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 38.1 19.2 37.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, the value of the awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the managements estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The fair value of the options granted is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The total expense recorded in relation to the long-term employee incentives was 4.9 million 2013: 1.7 million.
This charge is comprised of 4.4 million 2013: 1.7 million in respect of share-based payments and 0.5 million 2013: nil in respect of employers social security costs on the exercise of options.
As at 31 December 2014, the provision for social security costs on the exercise of options was 0.3 million 2013: nil.
The Company operates the JUST EAT plc Enterprise Management Incentive Scheme EMI Scheme, the JUST EAT plc Company Share Option Plan CSOP and the JUST EAT Share Incentive Plan SIP for employees of the Group.
During 2014, the share option plans were revised to take account of the bonus issue and consolidation of shares that were undertaken prior to the Companys IPO see note 28.
EMI Scheme Under the terms of the EMI Scheme, the Board granted options to certain employees of the Group to purchase shares in the Company.
Options are no longer being granted under this scheme.
CSOP Under the terms of the CSOP, the Board may grant options to purchase Ordinary shares in the Company.
The CSOP is an equitysettled share option scheme approved by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and was established in 2011.
Under the CSOP, the Board may grant options over shares in the Company to eligible employees.
The eligible employees to whom options are granted and the terms of such options are determined by the Board.
All employees are eligible to participate in the CSOP, including employees of the Companys subsidiaries, but not all grants are approved by HMRC.
The exercise price of options may not be less than the market value of the Companys shares on the date of grant, in order for the scheme to qualify as an approved HMRC scheme.
Vested options in the CSOP scheme became exercisable on the Companys IPO in April 2014.
128 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 37.
Share-based payments continued EMI Scheme and CSOP Options are exercisable at a price equal to the estimated fair value of the Companys shares on the date of grant.
Options vest in stages over a three-year period commencing on a specified date which is typically one year after the date of grant.
Options are forfeited if an employee leaves the Group before the options vest and expire if they remain unexercised ten years after the date of grant.
Details of the share options granted, under the EMI Scheme and CSOP, are as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted 2014 average 2013 average Number of exercise Number of exercise share options price share options price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 14,148 18.1 12,177 14.4 Granted during the year 1,292 57.5 3,294 34.0 Forfeited during the year 1,296 30.5 837 22.2 Exercised during the year 6,548 5.1 486 2.7 Outstanding at 31 December 7,596 34.0 14,148 18.1 Exercisable at 31 December 1,572 16.2 5,103 3.6 The weighted average exercise price of share options exercised during the year was 5.1 pence 2013: 2.7 pence.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2014 had a weighted average exercise price of 34.0 pence 2013: 18.1 pence and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.3 years 2013: 8.6 years.
SIPs Under the terms of the SIP, the Board may award Ordinary shares in the Company at no cost to the employee.
The SIP is an equitysettled share option scheme approved by HMRC and was established in 2014.
The shares vest between three and five years after grant.
Awards over 472,465 Ordinary Shares were granted on the date of the IPO.
The fair value of the share on the date of grant was 2.60.
Since grant 81,270 awards have been forfeited.
As at 31 December 2014 there were 391,195 SIP awards outstanding, all of which vest on 8 April 2017.
Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP The JSOP is a share ownership scheme under which the employee and Appleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited, the EBT Trustee EBT Trustee, hold a joint interest in Ordinary Shares.
Interests under the JSOP take the form of restricted interests in Ordinary Shares in the Company.
An interest permits a participant to benefit from the increase if any in the value of a number of Ordinary Shares in the Company over specified threshold amounts.
In order to acquire an interest, a participant must enter into a joint share ownership agreement with the EBT Trustee, under which the participant and the EBT Trustee jointly acquire the shares and agree that when the shares are sold the participant has a right to receive the proportion of the sale proceeds that exceed the threshold amount.
The vesting of interests granted to employees is subject to the option holder continuing to be employed by the Group.
Interests vest in stages over a three year period commencing on a specified date typically one year after the date of the grant.
The fair value of interests awarded under the JSOP was determined using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model.
Details of the JSOP interests are shown below: 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted 2014 average 2013 average Number of exercise Number of exercise JSOP awards price JSOP awards price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 17,990 45.6 6,013 12.3 Granted during the year 709 57.7 11,977 62.4 Forfeited during the year 27 57.7 Exercised during the year 1,886 12.3 Outstanding at 31 December 16,786 49.9 17,990 45.6 Exercisable at 31 December 5,066 23.9 6,013 12.2 www.
com 129 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 37.
Share-based payments continued Assumptions In determining the fair value of the options and interests granted under the EMI Scheme, CSOP and JSOP, the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model was used with the following inputs: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 Weighted average share price 168p 91p Weighted average exercise price 58p 34p Expected volatility 34.6% 39.7% Expected life 36-48 months 36-48 months Risk-free rate 0.38%-1.69% 0.38% 1.69% Expected dividend yields 0.0% 0.0% Expected volatility was determined by comparing the Company to others of a similar size or operating in a similar field.
The expected life used in the model was managements best estimate, adjusted for the effects for non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
All such share awards are equity-settled.
Financial instruments Financial instruments comprise both financial assets and financial liabilities.
The carrying value of these financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value.
Financial assets in the Group comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and a derivative financial instrument.
The classification of these financial assets is set out in the table below.
Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, other long-term liabilities, borrowings and provisions for liabilities which are classified as other financial liabilities.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 28 to 31.
As disclosed in note 41, subsequent to the year end the Group signed a 90 million revolving credit facility.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Financial risk management objectives The main financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, which include interest rate risk and currency risk.
The Board regularly reviews these risks.
The Group does not enter into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for speculative purposes.
Categories of financial instruments As at As at 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Financial assets Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents 164.4 61.6 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 7.6 1.5 Fair value through profit and loss Derivative financial instrument 0.4 Total financial assets 172.4 63.1 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost Borrowings 0.3 Trade and other payables 59.1 33.4 Provisions for liabilities 9.5 0.1 Other long-term liabilities 0.7 0.5 Total financial liabilities 69.6 34.0 130 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 38.
Financial instruments continued Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets is equal to their fair value.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Foreign currency risk management The Group undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies: consequently exposures to exchange rate fluctuations arise.
The carrying amounts of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date were as follows: Assets as at 31 December Liabilities as at 31 December 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Euros 9.9 2.6 14.9 3.6 Canadian Dollars 1.4 0.9 2.2 1.4 Danish Kroner 10.5 5.4 4.8 3.9 Norwegian Kroner 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 Swiss Francs 0.5 0.2 0.3 0.3 Brazilian Reals 0.4 0.5 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Group is primarily exposed to the Euro, Danish Krone and Canadian Dollar.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% depreciation and 10% appreciation in Pound Sterling against the relevant foreign currencies.
10% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the Group.
Impact on income statement or other comprehensive income loss Appreciation in Pound Sterling Depreciation in Pound Sterling Income Income Income Income statement Equity statement Equity statement Equity statement Equity 2014 2014 2013 2013 2014 2014 2013 2013 m m m m m m m m Euros 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.1 Canadian Dollars 0.1 0.1 0.1 Danish Kroner 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.2 The Groups sensitivity to fluctuations in foreign currencies is the result of increased activity in the foreign owned subsidiaries which has led to a significant increase in foreign currency denominated trade payables, trade receivables and intercompany borrowings.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date.
For assets and floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of asset liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 10% increase or decrease in the interest rate is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 10% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups: profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2014 would increase by 41,000 2013: 16,000 : and there would have been no effect on amounts recognised directly in equity.
com 131 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 38.
Financial instruments continued Credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Groups exposure and the credit ratings of its major counterparties are continuously monitored.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of consumers, spread across geographical areas.
Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is purchased.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, which are stated net of impairment losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk as no collateral or other credit enhancements are held.
The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
Liquidity risk management Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board, which has established an appropriate liquidity risk management framework for the management of the Groups short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
In addition, subsequent to the year end the Group signed a 90 million revolving credit facility, see note 41 for further details.
Liquidity and interest risk tables The following tables detail the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the balance sheet date.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the Group may be required to pay.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m 31 December 2014 Non-interest bearing 59.3 0.3 10.6 70.2 Fixed interest rate instruments 2.04 0.3 0.3 59.6 0.3 10.6 70.5 Discount for time value of money 0.9 0.9 59.6 0.3 9.7 69.6 31 December 2013 Non-interest bearing 33.4 0.2 0.5 34.1 33.4 0.2 0.5 34.1 Discount for time value of money 0.1 0.1 33.4 0.2 0.4 34.0 132 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 38.
Financial instruments continued The following table details the Groups expected maturity for its financial assets and has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets, including interest that will be earned on those assets.
Weighted average effective Less than 3 months to interest rate 1 month 1-3 months 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m m 31 December 2014 Non-interest bearing 42.4 42.4 Fixed interest rate instruments 0.5 97.7 32.3 130.0 140.1 32.3 172.4 31 December 2013 Non-interest bearing 29.0 29.0 Fixed interest rate instruments 0.4 29.1 5.0 34.1 58.1 5.0 63.1 The Group has previously had access to financing overdraft facilities, which as of the balance sheet date have all been cancelled.
The Group expects to meet its obligations from operating cash flows and proceeds of maturing financial assets.
Derivative financial instrument At the time the Group acquired Sindelantal Internet S. L. in 2012, it granted a loan to selling shareholders in order that they could provide working capital to their Mexican business.
Part of the loan was convertible into a minority shareholding in the holding company of the Mexican business.
The embedded option was recognised on the 31 December 2014 balance sheet at a fair value of 0.4 million 2013: nil.
The fair value gain arising during 2014, of 0.4 million 2013: nil, was recognised within Other gains in the Income Statement.
The fair value was based on an offer made for the business around the time of the Groups year end.
This unobservable market information ranks as level 3 data in the fair value hierarchy see note 3d.
Related party transactions The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties other than key management personnel for the relevant financial year together with amounts owed by and to related parties at the balance sheet date.
Year ended 31 December As at 31 December Amounts owed Amounts owed Sales to Purchases from by related to related related parties related parties parties parties Associates: m m m m Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited 2014 2013 0.1 The amounts are classified as trade receivables and trade payables respectively.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 2.2 1.6 Post-employment pension 0.1 Termination benefits 0.2 0.4 Share-based compensation 2.3 0.9 Total compensation of key management personnel 4.7 3.0 The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to key management personnel.
The amounts in respect of share-based compensation are the IFRS 2 charges.
Key management personnel are members of the Board and members of the Groups Executive Team.
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors and Directors interests in Ordinary Shares of the Company are disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 80. www.
com 133 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 39.
Related party transactions continued On 24 March 2014, prior to the IPO, the Company called all the unpaid subscription amounts, totalling 13.2 million, in respect of certain shares issued under the JSOP.
In order to facilitate this, the Company made loans to participants of the JSOP and Appleby Trust Jersey Trust Limited totalling 5.3 million and 7.9 million, respectively.
The loans provided to the participants of the JSOP included loans to key management personnel totalling 4.9 million.
As at 31 December 2014, the amount due from key management personnel in respect of these loans was 4.8 million 2013: nil.
This included 3.0 million in respect of Directors of the Company 2013: nil.
During the year ended 31 December 2014 dividends totalling 0.3 million 2013: nil were paid to key management personnel.
Of this, 0.2 million 2013: nil was paid to Directors of the Company.
The weighted average subscription price of the JSOP awards was 28 pence.
Should the Companys share price fall below the subscription price, on exercise by the employee or on the Company calling the loans, the Company has guaranteed to fund the shortfall.
134 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 40.
Subsidiaries A list of the investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings, including the name, country of incorporation, and proportion of voting rights held is given below: Proportion of Proportion of voting rights voting rights Entity Country of Incorporation held 2014 held 2013 Nature of business Subsidiary undertakings Just Eat Holding Ltd UK 100% 100% Holding and management company Just Eat.
co. uk Limited UK 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Meal 2 Order.
com Limited UK 100% N A Online takeaway portal Orogo Limited UK 60% N A Online takeaway portal Just Eat India Holding Limited UK 100% N A Holding company Just-Eat Denmark Holding ApS Denmark 100% 100% Holding company Just Eat Host A S Denmark 100% 100% Hosts servers Just Eat.
dk ApS Denmark 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat Ireland Limited Ireland 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Eatcity Limited Ireland 100% N A Online takeaway portal Just Eat.
no As Norway 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat.
ca Management Limited Canada 100% 100% Holding company Power & Power Inc Canada 100% 100% Holding company Just Eat Canada Inc. Canada 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat Belgie BVBA Belgium 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just Eat Spain S. L. U. Spain 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat Italy S. r. l Italy 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat Benelux BV Netherlands 100% 100% Online takeaway portal Eat.
ch GmbH Switzerland 64% 64% Online takeaway portal Just-Eat.
lu S. a. r. l. Luxembourg 100% 100% Financing company FBA Invest SaS France 80% 50% Holding company Eat On Line Sa France 80% 50% Online takeaway portal Non-trading subsidiary undertakings Urbanbite Holdings Limited UK 100% 100% Non-trading Urbanbite Limited UK 100% 100% Non-trading FillMyBelly Limited UK 100% 100% Non-trading EatStudent Limited UK 100% 100% Non-trading 1Epos Limited UK 100% N A Non-trading Meal 2 Go Ireland Limited UK 100% N A Non-trading Meal 2 Go Limited UK 100% N A Non-trading Associated undertakings Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited India 50% 50% Online takeaway portal IF-JE Participaes Ltda Brazil 25% N A Holding company Indirect holding by JUST EAT plc.
With the exception of Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited in which the Group had a 51% ownership interest as at 31 December 2014 2013: 59% the proportion of voting rights held equated to the proportion of ownership interests held for all entities.
com 135 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2014 40.
Subsidiaries continued Year ended 31 December 2014 On 27 February 2014, a Group company acquired 100% of the share capital of Meal 2 Order.
In addition, the same Group company acquired 100% of the share capital of three non-trading companies: Meal2Go Limited, Meal2Go Ireland Limited, and 1Epos Limited.
See note 33 for further details about this acquisition.
On 10 July 2014, a Group company acquired 45% of the share capital of Orogo Limited.
Immediately following the acquisition, the Groups shareholding was increased to 60% via a share subscription.
On 24 July 2014, the Group exercised its option to purchase an additional 30% of shares in FBA Invest SaS, a French holding company, in which the Group already had a 50% interest.
This increased the Group holding in FBA and its 100% owned subsidiary, Eat Online Sa, to 80%.
On 3 November 2014, a Group company acquired 100% of the share capital of Eatcity Limited.
The trade and assets of Eatcity were immediately transferred into Just-Eat Ireland Limited.
On 3 November 2014, the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Justeat Brasil Servicos Online LTDA JE Brazil merged with the iFood group.
Following the merger the Group held a minority shareholding of 25% in the holding company of the merged group, IF-JE Participaes Ltda IF-JE.
See note 34 for further details about the merger.
During 2014, the Groups holding in Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited justeat.
in reduced to 51%, but the Groups voting rights and economic interests were retained at 49.9%.
Year ended 31 December 2013 On 1 January 2013 SinDelantal Internet S. L. was merged into Just-Eat Spain S. L. In January 2013, the Group bought out the minority interest in its Canadian business, Just Eat Canada Inc.
This was achieved via the purchase of Power & Power Inc. a Canadian holding company.
In January 2013, a Group company acquired, through the conversion of loans to equity, an additional 13% of the ordinary share capital of Eat.
ch and gained control of Eat.
The Groups shareholding increased from 50% to 63% and subsequently to 64% following a further loan conversion.
On 26 August 2013, the Group liquidated the non-trading entity Biteguide GmbH.
The Groups shareholding in justeat.
in had increased from 84% to 91% over the course of 2013 via a series of capital injections.
In November 2013, the Group relinquished control of justeat.
in, as a result of Axon Partners Group and Forum Synergies India making investments in justeat.
This transaction reduced the Groups shareholding to 59%.
The Groups voting rights and economic interests decreased to 49.9%.
Audit exemption statement For the year ended 31 December 2014, Orogo Limited, Meal 2 Order.
com Limited, FillMyBelly Limited, Urbanbite Holdings Limited and Urbanbite Limited were entitled to exemption from audit under section 479 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies.
The members of these companies have not required them to obtain an audit of their financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
136 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements 41.
Events after the balance sheet date On 22 January 2015 the Group acquired the minority shareholdings in eat.
ch GmbH, the Groups Swiss trading subsidiary.
As a result, the Groups stake increased from 64% to 100%.
ch GmbH was already consolidated as a subsidairy the acquisition will have no impact on the Groups revenue or underlying EBITDA.
On 11 February the Group acquired a further 5% stake in IF-JE Participaes Ltda IF-JE, the Groups Brazilian associated undertaking, bringing its total stake to 30%.
The consideration payable is dependent upon the future performance of IF-JE and is payable in instalments over the period to 31 October 2016.
Following the acquisition of the further stake, IF-JE will continue to be accounted for as an associated undertaking.
As IF-JE is currently loss making the acquisition of a further stake will initially have a small negative impact of the Groups Underlying EBITDA.
On 13 February the Group acquired the entire share capital of Sindelantal Mexico SA fide CV Sindelantal Mexico.
Sindelantal Mexico is the market leader in mobile and online takeaway in Mexico.
It has approximately 2,500 restaurant partners and generates over 50,000 orders per month.
Given the timing of the acquisition, it has not been possible to determine the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired.
As Sindelantal Mexico is currently loss-making the acquisition will initially have a negative impact of the Groups Underlying EBITDA.
The total consideration for the above acquisitions is expected to be around 35 million.
In January the Group sold its shares in Achindra Online Marketing Private Limited, the Groups Indian associated undertaking, to foodpanda.
Prior to the disposal the investment was accounted for using the equity accounting method.
As a consequence the sale will have no impact on the Groups revenue and a small positive impact on Underlying EBITDA, as the Group will no longer recognise a share of the entitys losses.
The Group will recognise its investment in foodpandas Indian holding company at fair value.
In March the Group signed a facility agreement with a syndicate of banks consisting of Barclays Bank plc, HSBC plc and RBS plc, for a revolving credit facility for 90 million.
This has a one-off fee and will result in an increased interest costs for the Group in 2015, depending on the amount drawn down.
As at the date of signing the financial statements no debt has been drawn down.
