SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual General Meeting Trading account The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Shareholders on the Companys UK register who are domiciled at 12.15pm on Thursday 7 May 2015 at The Lincoln Centre, in the EU can open a trading account by contacting the Companys 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom.
This service allows shareholders to hold their shares The Notice of Annual General Meeting and Form of Proxy are electronically rather than in certificated form.
There are no set up enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Notice or administration fees and certificates can be deposited free of of Annual General Meeting can also be found in the Investors charge 25 per line of stock fee applies to transfers out.
& Media section on the KAZ Minerals website Additional highlights include: www.
ability to trade online or over the telephone: In previous years, the Company sought approval of a waiver by the 20 fee per transaction telephone commission 1%, minimum 20 : Panel on Takeovers and Mergers the Panel of the obligations access to international markets: which would otherwise arise under Rule 9 of the Code on trade in or hold up to seven currencies: and Takeovers and Mergers the Code requiring those shareholders limit orders, allowing shareholders to place trade instructions comprising the concert party to make an offer for the issued outside London Stock Exchange opening hours.
share capital of the Company in connection with the vesting of ordinary shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards The value of your investments may go down as well as up.
You granted to Eduard Ogay and Oleg Novachuk, each of whom were may not get back all the funds that you invest.
The potential for considered to be acting in concert with Vladimir Kim for the profit or loss from transactions on international markets or in purposes of the Code.
foreign denominated currencies will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
The Panel has confirmed the independent Directors view that Oleg Novachuk is no longer considered to be acting in concert with Electronic voting Vladimir Kim and Eduard Ogay, who are deemed to continue to Shareholders can submit proxies for the 2015 Annual General be acting in concert with each other for the purposes of the Code.
Meeting electronically by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy appointments must be received by the Accordingly, at the Annual General Meeting, the Company is Companys UK or Hong Kong registrar no later than 12.15pm UK not proposing any resolution relating to any waiver of Rule 9 time 7.15pm Hong Kong time on Tuesday 5 May 2015 or not obligations by the Panel in connection with the vesting of ordinary less than 48 hours before the time fixed for any adjourned meeting.
shares under the LTIP award granted to Oleg Novachuk, who is no longer considered to be acting in concert with Vladimir Kim Website and Eduard Ogay.
A wide range of information on KAZ Minerals is available at www.
com including: As at 25 February 2015, the previous concert party Vladimir Kim, Eduard Ogay and Oleg Novachuk were interested in 188,064,645 financial information annual and half-yearly reports ordinary shares, representing approximately 42.10% of the voting as well as production reports: share capital of the Company, and the current concert party share price information current trading details and Vladimir Kim and Eduard Ogay were interested in 153,141,222 historical charts: ordinary shares, representing approximately 34.28% of the voting shareholder information dividend information, Annual General share capital of the Company.
Meeting results and details of the Companys UK and Hong Kong registrars: and Electronic shareholder communications press releases current and historical.
KAZ Minerals uses its website www.
com as its primary means of communication with its shareholders provided Registrars that the shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that For information about proxy voting, dividends and to report communications may be sent or supplied in that manner.
Electronic changes in personal details, shareholders should contact: communications allow shareholders to access information instantly For shareholders holding their shares on the UK register: as well as helping KAZ Minerals reduce its costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders can sign up for electronic Computershare Investor Services PLC communications via Computershares Investor Centre website The Pavilions at www.
Shareholders that have consented Bridgwater Road or are deemed to have consented to electronic communications Bristol BS13 8AE can revoke their consent at any time by contacting the Companys United Kingdom UK or Hong Kong registrar.
In addition to enabling shareholders Tel: 44 0 870 707 1100 to register to receive communications by email, Computershares Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 Investor Centre website provides a facility for shareholders to Email: web.
co. uk manage their shareholding online by allowing them to: For shareholders holding their shares on the Hong Kong register: view their share balance: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited change their address: 17M Floor view payment and tax information: and Hopewell Centre update payment instructions.
183 Queens Road East Computershares Investor Centre website also offers a share Wan Chai dealing service for shareholders on the UK register.
hk 182 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION For shareholders holding their shares on the Kazakhstan Half-yearly results Stock Exchange: The half-yearly results, to be announced on the London Stock Exchange, Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Kazakhstan Stock Shareholder Queries Exchange in August 2015, will continue to be available on the KAZ Minerals PLC Companys website in the form of a press release and not issued 6th Floor, Cardinal Place to shareholders in hard copy.
Shareholders that have signed up 100 Victoria Street for electronic shareholder communication will be sent a London SW1E 5JL notification when these are available on the website.
United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7901 7898 Shareholder interests at 31 December 2014 Email: shareholder@kazminerals.
com Number of shareholders: 1,865 Unsolicited telephone calls and correspondence Number of shares in issue: 458,379,033 Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, % of offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about ordinary No.
of % of total share the Company.
These are typically from overseas based brokers By size of holding accounts accounts capital who target US or UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often 1,000 and under 1,026 55.01 0.08 turn out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are 1,001 to 5,000 371 19.90 0.20 commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
If shareholders receive any 5,001 to 10,000 119 6.38 0.19 unsolicited investment advice, they can check if the person or 10,001 to 100,000 197 10.56 1.58 organisation is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Over 100,000 152 8.15 97.95 Authority FCA at www.
uk scams and the matter may be Total 1,865 100.00 100.00 reported to the FCA by emailing consumer.
% of Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses ordinary will be included in Company mailings or on our website.
of % of total share By category of shareholder accounts accounts capital Currency option and dividend mandate Private shareholders 845 45.31 0.43 The Company declares dividends in US dollars.
For those shareholders Banks nominees 975 52.28 96.19 who hold their shares on the UK register the default currency for Pension funds 1 0.05 0.00 receipt of their dividends is US dollars, although they can elect to receive their dividends in UK pounds sterling.
For those shareholders Investment unit trusts 2 0.11 0.00 who wish to receive their dividend in UK pounds sterling, they Insurance companies 1 0.05 0.00 should contact the Companys UK registrar to request a currency Corporate holders 36 1.94 0.76 election form.
For those shareholders who hold their shares on Hong Kong Share Register 1 0.05 0.07 the Hong Kong register the default currency for receipt of their Share Plan Control Account 2 0.11 0.00 dividends is Hong Kong dollars, although they can elect to receive Treasury Account 1 0.05 2.55 their dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong register of members can contact the Companys Hong Kong Vested Share Account 1 0.05 0.00 registrar to request a currency election form.
Total 1,865 100.00 100.00 Shareholders on the UK register of members can arrange for dividends to be paid directly into a UK bank or building society account.
To take advantage of this facility, you should contact the Events calendar Companys UK registrar to request a dividend mandate form or Q1 Interim Management Statement April 2015 register online at www.
The arrangement is Annual General Meeting 7 May 2015 only available in respect of dividends paid in UK pounds sterling.
Half-yearly results announced August 2015 Q3 Interim Management Statement October 2015 Cautionary comment concerning forward-looking statements This Annual Report and Accounts includes forward-looking statements with respect to the business, strategy and plans of KAZ Minerals and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements of KAZ Minerals to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Except as required by the UK Listing Rules and applicable law, KAZ Minerals does not undertake any obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
com 183 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION GLOSSARY bcm:t bank cubic metres excavated to recover Free Cash Flow net cash flow from operating MKM MKM Mansfelder Kupfer und Messing one metric tonne of coal activities before capital expenditure and nonGmbH, the Groups operating subsidiary in the current VAT associated with expansionary and new Federal Republic of Germany and an operating Board or Board of Directors the Board of projects less sustaining capital expenditure segment of the Group until its disposal on 28 May Directors of the Company 2013, which manufactures copper and copper alloy GHG greenhouse gas capital employed the aggregate of equity semi-finished products attributable to owners of the Company, nong t grammes per metric tonne MT million metric tonnes controlling interests and borrowings Government or State the Government of the MW megawatt, a unit of power equivalent to one cash operating costs all costs included within Republic of Kazakhstan million watts profit loss before finance items and taxation, net gross cash cost mining cash operating costs divided net cash cost of copper mining cash operating of other operating income, excluding mineral by the volume of copper cathode equivalent sales costs less by-product revenues, divided by the extraction tax, depreciation, depletion, amortisation, the Group KAZ Minerals PLC and its subsidiary volume of copper cathode equivalent sales the non-cash component of the disability benefits companies net dependable capacity maximum capacity obligation and special items Group EBITDA earnings before interest, taxation, sustained by a unit in a specified period modified CDB or China Development Bank the China the non-cash component of the disability benefits for seasonal limitations and reduced by the capacity Development Bank Corporation obligation, depreciation, depletion, amortisation and required for the plan CIT corporate income tax mineral extraction tax adjusted for special items and Non Ferrous China or NFC China Non Ferrous CNY Chinese yuan, basic unit of the renminbi including the share of EBITDA of the joint venture Metal Industrys Foreign Engineering and and associate CO carbon dioxide 2 Construction Co. Ltd GWh gigawatt-hour, one gigawatt-hour CO e carbon dioxide equivalent 2 nitrogen oxides NO x represents one hour of electricity consumed at a Committee or Committees any or all of the Audit: ounce or oz a troy ounce, which equates to constant rate of one gigawatt Group Health, Safety and Environment: Remuneration: 31.1035 grammes IAS International Accounting Standards or Nomination Committees depending on the context PXF pre-export finance debt facility in which the reference is used IASB International Accounting Standards Board Restructuring the transfer, subject to certain Company or KAZ Minerals KAZ Minerals PLC IFRS or IFRSs International Financial Reporting consents and approvals, of the Disposal Assets to Standard continuing operations the Group following Cuprum Netherlands Holding B. V. which was completion of the Restructuring JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee approved by shareholders at the General Meeting on CREST an electronic means of settling share Kazakhmys Corporation LLC or 15 August 2014 and completed on 31 October 2014 Kazakhmys LLC Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, transactions and registering investors on a RMB renminbi, the official currency of the the Groups principal operating subsidiary in companys register of members Peoples Republic of China Kazakhstan prior to the Restructuring Cuprum Holding Cuprum Netherlands Holding $ t US dollars per metric tonne Kazakhmys Mining a former operating segment B. V. now named Kazakhmys Holding Group B. V., Samruk-Energo Joint Stock Company Samrukof the Group which comprised all entities and the entity to which the Disposal Assets were Energo, an entity owned and controlled by functions within the Group responsible for the transferred Samruk-Kazyna and therefore the Government exploration, evaluation, development, mining and Directors the directors of the Company of Kazakhstan processing of the Groups mineral resources and Disposal Assets the Disposal Assets comprised Samruk-Kazyna Joint Stock Company National sale of the Groups metal products until completion the mining, processing, auxiliary, transportation and of the Restructuring.
The operating segment Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna, an entity owned heat and power assets of the Group in the excluded the Groups captive power stations, and controlled by the Government of Kazakhstan Zhezkazgan and Central Regions.
The Disposal which were included within the Kazakhmys Power silver in copper concentrate sold the silver granule Assets include 12 copper mines, mine development operating segment equivalent of silver in copper concentrate sold opportunities, four concentrators, two smelters, Kazakhmys Power a former operating segment SO sulphur dioxide 2 two coal mines and three captive heat and power of the Group, until completion of the Restructuring, som or KGS the official currency of Kyrgyzstan stations, all of which were disposed of as a result of the which included the Groups captive power stations special items those items which are non-recurring Restructuring and the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant joint venture, or variable in nature and which do not impact the dollar or $ or USD United States dollars, the whose principal activity was the sale of electricity to underlying trading performance of the business.
currency of the United States of America external customers and internally to Kazakhmys Special items are set out in notes 5 and 14 h to the Mining EBITDA earnings before interest, taxation, the financial statements non-cash component of the disability benefits Kazakhstan the Republic of Kazakhstan SX EW solvent extraction and electrowinning, a obligation, depreciation, depletion, amortisation kbcm thousand bank cubic metres two-stage metallurgy process used for the extraction and mineral extraction tax KGcal thousand gigacalories, units of heat energy of copper Ekibastuz GRES-1 Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP koz thousand ounces t metric tonnes ENRC or ENRC PLC Eurasian Natural KPI key performance indicator TC RCs treatment charges and refining charges Resources Corporation PLC kt thousand metric tonnes paid for smelting and refining services EPS earnings per share kWh kilowatt hour, one kilowatt hour represents tenge or KZT the official currency of the EPS based on Underlying Profit profit for the one hour of electricity consumed at a constant rate Republic of Kazakhstan year after adding back items which are nonof one kilowatt Underlying Loss Profit loss profit for the year recurring or variable in nature and which do not LBMA London Bullion Market Association after adding back items which are non-recurring or impact the underlying trading performance of the LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate variable in nature and which do not impact the business, and their resulting taxation and underlying trading performance of the business and Listing the listing of the Companys ordinary shares non-controlling interest impact, divided by the their resultant tax and non-controlling interest effects.
on the London Stock Exchange on 12 October 2005 weighted average number of ordinary shares in Underlying Profit is set out in note 15 b to the issue during the period LME London Metal Exchange financial statements EPT excess profits tax LTIFR lost time injury frequency rate USc lb US cents per pound Eurasian Resources Eurasian Resources Group B. V. major growth projects Bozshakol, Aktogay and Euro or Euro, the currency of certain member Koksay states of the European Union megalitre thousand cubic metres MET mineral extraction tax 184 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FOR ALL THE LATEST INFORMATION AND TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THE COMPANY, PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.
COM Our corporate website houses the most up-to-date information about KAZ Minerals as well as detailed investor and media sections.
CONTACTS Company Secretary Joint corporate brokers Auditors Stephen Hodges J. P. Morgan Cazenove Limited KPMG LLP Tel: 44 0 20 7901 7800 25 Bank Street 15 Canada Square Email: stephen.
com Canary Wharf Canary Wharf London E14 5JP London E14 5GL Registered office United Kingdom United Kingdom KAZ Minerals PLC 6th Floor, Cardinal Place Citigroup Global Markets Limited 100 Victoria Street 33 Canada Square London SW1E 5JL Canary Wharf United Kingdom London E14 5LB Tel: 44 0 20 7901 7800 United Kingdom Registered number: 05180783 This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on Heaven 42, which has been sourced from well managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Printed by Pureprint Group KAZ Minerals PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 KAZ Minerals PLC 6th Floor, Cardinal Place 100 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL United Kingdom Telephone 44 020 7901 7800 Facsimile 44 020 7901 7859 Website www.
