Strategic Report Governance Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 7 amended, Disclosures Offsetting financial assets 1 General information and financial liabilities effective from 1 January 2013 : Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective from and associates together the Group supply home improvement 1 January 2013. products and services through a network of retail stores and other channels, located mainly in the United Kingdom, The impact on the Group of the application of the above continental Europe and China.
standards is as follows: The amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of items of other The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in comprehensive income, require items presented in other comprehensive income to be grouped by those items that the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 31. may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and The address of its registered office is 3 Sheldon Square, those that will never be reclassified, together with their Paddington, London W2 6PX.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively and the presentation of items of The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
comprehensive income has been adjusted accordingly.
These consolidated financial statements have been approved IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits, amends the accounting for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2014. for employment benefits and the Group has applied it 2 Principal accounting policies retrospectively in accordance with the transition provisions of the standard.
The impact on the Group has been in the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of following areas: these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These The standard replaces the interest cost on the defined policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets unless otherwise stated.
A prior year restatement as a result of with a single net interest expense or income based on the the amendments to IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits, is net defined benefit asset or liability and the discount rate, described in section a of this note.
measured at the beginning of the year.
Basis of preparation to determining the discount rate: this continues to reflect The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its the yield on high-quality corporate bonds.
For the current subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are made up to the and comparative year, the Groups reported profit before nearest Saturday to 31 January each year, except as disclosed taxation was not impacted as the expected rate of return in note 17 and in note 4 of the Companys separate financial on assets at the start of the current and prior year was the statements.
The current financial year is the 52 weeks ended same as the discount rate for the UK scheme, the Groups 1 February 2014 the year or 2013 14.
The comparative principal defined benefit pension plan.
financial year is the 53 weeks ended 2 February 2013 the prior The revised standard also requires administrative costs of year or 2012 13.
The 53 weeks in the prior year only impacted running the UK scheme to be reclassified from net finance the UK and Ireland businesses with all of the other businesses costs to operating costs.
For the current year the Groups reporting on a calendar basis as a result of local requirements.
reported operating profit is 3m lower and net finance The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate income 3m higher than they would have been prior to the enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the Group adoption of IAS 19 revised.
For the year ended 2 February to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future 2013 the Groups reported operating profit is 3m lower and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern and net finance costs 3m lower than previously reported.
basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the IFRS 7 amended, Disclosures Offsetting financial assets year ended 1 February 2014.
Refer to the Directors statement and financial liabilities, amended the required disclosures of responsibility on page 71. surrounding the effect or potential effect of netting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in arrangements, including rights of set-off associated with accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as recognised financial assets and liabilities, on the Groups adopted by the European Union IFRS and those parts of the financial position.
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, has impacted the IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply measurement of fair value for certain financial assets and with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
liabilities as well as introducing new disclosures.
The following new standards, amendments and interpretations, which are mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 1 February 2014, are relevant and material for the Group: IAS 1 amended, Presentation of items of other comprehensive income effective from 1 July 2012 : IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits effective from 1 January 2013 : www.
com 81 81 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 2 Principal accounting policies continued IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates and The following amendments and interpretations, which are assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting 1 February 2014, are either not currently relevant or not policies.
The areas involving critical accounting estimates and material for the Group: judgements, which are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 3.
IFRS 1 amended, First time adoption on government loans effective from 1 January 2013 : Use of non-GAAP measures In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities: measures that are not required under IFRS, the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP under which the Group Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 effective from reports.
Kingfisher believes that retail profit, adjusted 1 January 2013 : pre-tax profit, effective tax rate, adjusted post-tax profit and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase on underlying trends to shareholders.
These and other nonof a Surface Mine: GAAP measures such as net debt cash are used by Kingfisher Amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans.
for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, exceptional At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, items, adjusted, effective tax rate and net debt cash are not the following new standards, amendments and interpretations, defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be comparable which have not been applied in these financial statements, with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, not yet been adopted by the EU : GAAP measures.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective from Like-for-like LFL sales growth is defined as the constant 1 January 2018 : currency, year-on-year sales growth for stores that have been IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective open for more than a year.
from 1 January 2014 : Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective from central costs principally the costs of the Groups head office, 1 January 2014 : exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities effective and associates.
from 1 January 2014 : The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, IAS 27 revised, Separate financial statements effective which are presented as exceptional within their relevant income from 1 January 2014 : statement category, helps provide an indication of the Groups IAS 28 revised, Investments in associates and joint ventures underlying business performance.
The principal items which effective from 1 January 2014 : are included as exceptional items are: IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation non-trading items included in operating profit such as on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities profits and losses on the disposal, closure or impairment effective from 1 January 2014. of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and investments which do not form part of the Groups trading activities: The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial profits and losses on the disposal of properties: and statements of the Group in future periods, except that IFRS the costs of significant restructuring and incremental 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of acquisition integration costs.
The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide reported for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a financing fair value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition detailed review has been completed.
intangibles, related tax items and prior year tax items including The consolidated financial statements have been prepared the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
Financing under the historical cost convention, as modified by the use fair value remeasurements represent changes in the fair value of valuations for certain financial instruments, share-based of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by payments and post-employment benefits.
A summary of the fair value adjustments to the carrying amount of borrowings Groups principal accounting policies is set out below.
and other hedged items under fair value hedge relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that relate to underlying items of a financing nature.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 82 82 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains 2 Principal accounting policies continued on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
The effective tax rate represents the effective income tax Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction expense as a percentage of continuing profit before taxation provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Effective income tax expense is Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries have been the continuing income tax expense excluding tax on exceptional changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the items and tax adjustments in respect of prior years and the policies adopted by the Group.
impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax.
ii Joint ventures and associates Net debt cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents control, with a third party, to govern the financial and operating and current other investments.
The equity method is used to account for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures to exercise significant influence but not control, generally and associates.
accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account i Subsidiaries for the Groups investments in associates.
Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, Under the equity method investments are initially recognised at generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half cost.
The Groups investments in joint ventures and associates of the voting rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired are include goodwill net of any accumulated impairment losses recorded under the acquisition method of accounting and their identified on acquisition.
results included from the date of acquisition.
The results of The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is subsidiaries which have been disposed are included up to the recognised in the income statement within operating profit, effective date of disposal.
and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary recognised in reserves.
The cumulative post-acquisition is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of and the equity interests issued by the Group.
When the Groups share of losses equals or transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting exceeds its interest, including any other long-term receivables, from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related the Group does not recognise any further losses, unless it has costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business venture or associate.
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its acquisition date.
On an  basis, joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the Groups interest.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Accounting policies of joint ventures and associates acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the nonthe policies adopted by the Group.
controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having an investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is a deficit balance.
Prior to 31 January 2010, losses exceeding the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control or the non-controlling interest in the equity of a subsidiary were significant influence over the investee or on the date it is required to be attributed to the parent: the resulting deficit classified as held for sale.
balances were not restated following amendment to IAS 27, c. Foreign currencies Consolidated and separate financial statements.
i Presentation and functional currencies The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of The consolidated financial statements are presented in any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisitionSterling, which is the Groups presentation currency.
Items date fair value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree included in the financial statements of each of the Groups over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is entities are measured using the currency of the primary recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of economic environment in which the entity operates the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of i. e. its functional currency.
a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
ii Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction or, for practical reasons, at average monthly rates where exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
com 83 83 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Other income is generally composed primarily of external 2 Principal accounting policies continued rental income and profits and losses on disposal of assets.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are items are taken to the income statement.
Exceptions to this are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
foreign operation or are designated and effective net investment or cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially e. Rebates deferred in equity.
Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume related rebates on the purchase of inventories.
iii Group companies Volume related rebates are recognised based on actual The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange at the forecast over the rebate period where it is probable the rebates balance sheet date.
Profits and losses of overseas subsidiary will be received and the amounts can be estimated reliably.
undertakings are expressed in Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the Rebates relating to inventories purchased but still held at the retranslation of foreign operations, including joint ventures and balance sheet date are deducted from the carrying value so associates, are recognised in a separate component of equity.
that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to the income statement when the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the goods are sold.
retranslation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as f. Dividends hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
When a foreign Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the operation is sold, such exchange differences recorded since Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised 1 February 2004 are recognised in the income statement as when they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
part of the gain or loss on disposal.
g. Intangible assets Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition i Goodwill of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the from assets acquired in a business combination that are balance sheet date.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 February 2004 not individually identified and separately recognised.
Such benefits include future synergies expected from the Principal rates of exchange against Sterling: combination and intangible assets not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.
2013 14 2012 13 Average Year end Average Year end Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
rate rate rate rate Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment Euro 1.18 1.22 1.23 1.15 by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash generating US Dollar 1.57 1.64 1.59 1.57 unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill Polish Zloty 4.95 5.17 5.13 4.79 relates.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference Chinese Renminbi 9.62 9.97 10.01 9.80 to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell if higher.
The d. Revenue recognition discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks services.
Sales exclude transactions made between companies associated with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of within the Group, Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes cash generating units.
When the recoverable amount of the and are net of returns, trade and staff discounts.
goodwill is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is Sales of in-store products are generally recognised at the point recognised immediately in the income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an of cash receipt.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are provided as part of the sales transaction, the amount entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
allocated to the credits is deferred and recognised when the credits are redeemed and the Group fulfils its obligations to ii Computer software supply the awards.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the when the product has been delivered or, for installation income, specific software.
These costs are amortised over their when the service has been performed.
Sales from delivered estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
products and services represent only a small component of the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store purchases of products.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 84 84 Strategic Report Governance Accounts All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income 2 Principal accounting policies continued statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the i.
Leased assets Group, which are expected to generate economic benefits Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if assets.
Direct costs include software development, employee they had been purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the and consultancy costs and an appropriate portion of relevant lower of the fair value or the present value of the minimum lease overheads.
These costs are amortised over their estimated payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
useful lives of two to ten years.
Costs associated with identifying, The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or sourcing, evaluating or maintaining computer software are their useful life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of recognised as an expense as incurred.
finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
h. Property, plant and equipment The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance i Cost costs in the income statement over the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any are generally charged to the income statement in the period provisions for impairment.
to which the payments relate, except for those leases which Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which deemed cost, being the fair value of land and buildings as contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income at the transition date to IFRS.
All property acquired after statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
1 February 2004 is carried at cost.
Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, ii Depreciation the buildings element of the lease may be capitalised as a Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight line reduction finance lease if it meets the criteria for a finance lease, but the from cost to estimated residual value over the estimated useful land element will in most cases be classified as an operating life of the asset as follows: lease.
If the contracted lease payments are not split between land and buildings in the lease contract, the split is made based Freehold land not depreciated on the market values of the land and buildings at the inception Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life of the lease.
Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period of the lease Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years released to the income statement on a straight line basis over Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years the lease term.
Investment property Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease income or for capital appreciation.
The Groups investment terms of more than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values properties are carried at cost less depreciation and provision for are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation is provided on a consistent basis with that applied to property, plant and equipment.
iii Impairment Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment held as non-current assets is capitalised from the date work is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference starts on the property to the date when substantially all the to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows activities which are necessary to get the property ready for value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair use are complete.
Where construction is completed in parts, value less costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is each part is considered separately when capitalising interest.
based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with Interest is capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant l. Inventories cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is charged to the Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable income statement in the period in which it occurs.
value, on a weighted average cost basis.
iv Disposal Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset determining the cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds appropriate attributable overheads and direct expenditure and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the incurred in the normal course of business in bringing goods income statement.
Sales of land and buildings are accounted for to their present location and condition.
Costs of inventories when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on v Subsequent costs qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
com 85 85 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable 2 Principal accounting policies continued on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary to tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is make the sale.
Write downs to net realisable value are made for accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
slow moving, damaged or obsolete items and other events or conditions resulting in expected selling prices being lower Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to than cost.
The carrying value of inventories reflects known and expected losses of product in the ordinary course of business.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences or unused tax m. Employee benefits losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised i Post-employment benefits if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition The Group operates various defined benefit and defined of goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax assets and contribution pension schemes for its employees, some of which liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises are required by local legislation.
A defined benefit scheme is a from the initial recognition other than in a business combination pension scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects which an employee will receive on retirement.
A defined neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, In all cases other than some of the legally required schemes, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the a separate fund is being accumulated to meet the accruing temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary liabilities.
The assets of each of these funds are either held difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
under trusts or managed by insurance companies and are The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at entirely separate from the Groups assets.
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair value of scheme available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance calculated annually by independent actuaries using the sheet date and are expected to apply in the period when the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined liability is settled or the asset is realised.
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income bonds which are denominated in the currency in which the statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
also recognised directly in equity.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against and changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged to each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Provisions The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal expense when they are due.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to ii Share-based compensation settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options or If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are deferred shares is recognised as an expense and is calculated determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The total amount pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments of the to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares to the liability.
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting p. Financial instruments conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the expected and actual levels of options vesting due to Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the non-market vesting conditions.
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are n. Taxation derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows The income tax expense represents the sum of the tax from the financial asset expire or the Group has substantially currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial is based on taxable profit for the year.
liabilities or a part of a financial liability are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported or cancelled or expires.
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years or which are never taxable or deductible.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 86 86 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Fair value hedges 2 Principal accounting policies continued For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off the respective attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, entry being recorded in the income statement.
Gains or losses or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
from remeasuring the corresponding hedging instrument are recognised in the same line of the income statement.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits Cash flow hedges held on call with banks and other short-term highly liquid Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of investments with original maturities of three months or less.
derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion ii Borrowings being recognised immediately in the income statement Interest bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or received, net of direct issue costs and subsequently measured forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial at amortised cost.
Where borrowings are in designated and asset or liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated effective fair value hedge relationships, adjustments are made gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been to their carrying amounts to reflect the hedged risks.
Finance recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of charges, including premiums payable on settlement or the non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that result in the redemption and direct issue costs, are amortised to the recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in income statement using the effective interest method.
equity are recognised in the income statement in the same iii Other investments period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Other investments include bank deposits, government bonds Net investment hedges and other short-term investments with original maturities of Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations more than three months.
Investments classified as availablethrough foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the for-sale under IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition retranslation of the borrowings are recognised directly in equity.
and measurement, are initially measured at fair value, with If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the subsequent changes in fair value recorded directly in equity.
effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, with any Any dividends received are recognised in the income statement.
ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are in equity are transferred to the income statement.
recycled through the income statement on disposal of the iv Trade receivables foreign operation.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents subsequently measured at amortised cost less any provision in advance the relationship between the item being hedged for bad and doubtful debts.
The Group also documents and v Trade payables demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the subsequently measured at amortised cost.
hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to vi Derivatives and hedge accounting ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it is not effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Changes expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies in the fair value of derivatives transacted as hedges of operating for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss items and financing items are recognised in operating profit on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in and net finance costs respectively.
equity until the highly probable forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently carried to the income statement.
The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments classified as hedges depends on their Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship.
host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their The Group designates certain financial instruments as: risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or unrecognised with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
firm commitment fair value hedge : q.
Assets held for sale a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or firm Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held commitment cash flow hedge : or for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net transaction rather than through continuing use.
is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.
com 87 87 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Inventories 2 Principal accounting policies continued As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable Management must be committed to the sale, which should value this requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within goods to customers in the future.
A high degree of judgement one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
is applied when estimating the impact on the carrying value of inventories of factors such as slow moving items, shrinkage, Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for damage and obsolescence.
The quantity, age and condition of sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value inventories are regularly measured and assessed as part of range less costs to sell.
This excludes financial assets, deferred tax reviews and inventory counts undertaken throughout the year assets and assets arising from employee benefits, which are and across the Group.
Refer to note 18 for further information.
measured according to the relevant accounting policy.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not Income taxes depreciated once classified as held for sale.
The group ceases to The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions use the equity method of accounting from the date on which an and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax interest in a jointly controlled entity or an interest in an associate determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of becomes held for sale.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
The 3 Critical accounting estimates Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the and judgements final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts The preparation of consolidated financial statements under which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the IFRS requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which that affect the application of policies and reported amounts.
These adjustments in respect of Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are prior years are recorded in the income statement or directly based on historical experience and other factors including in equity as appropriate.
Refer to notes 9 and 25 for further expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable information.
Actual results may differ from these Restructuring provisions estimates.
The estimates and assumptions which have a The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying historical and ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year significant part of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and are discussed below.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows Impairment of goodwill and other assets are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its closed stores and subletting surplus space.
Refer to note assets are carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
The procedures, by their nature, require estimates and Post-employment benefits assumptions to be made.
The most significant are set out below.
The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised on The Group is required, on at least an annual basis, to test the balance sheet is dependent on a number of assumptions whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, inflation testing the recoverable amounts of cash generating units have and mortality rates.
The net interest expense or income is been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The dependent on the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements generating unit and the choice of suitable discount and longin the estimated obligations.
To help the reader understand the term growth rates in order to calculate the present value of the impact of changes in the key assumptions, a sensitivity analysis forecast cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly is provided in note 27. from these estimates.
Further information on the impairment Investment in Hornbach tests undertaken, including the key assumptions, is given During the year a number of developments have occurred in note 12. in respect of our strategic investment in Hornbach.
This Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if has required judgement to be exercised surrounding the events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying ability of the Group to exercise significant influence over amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment Hornbach based on accounting definitions, and therefore the is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash appropriateness of continuing to account for the investment as generating unit is determined as the higher of fair value less an associate.
Following the decision to waive the right to appoint costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated on the basis of directors to the board, the Directors have judged that the Group managements assumptions and estimates.
ceased to have the ability to exercise significant influence from 31 January 2014.
Further judgements have been required in At each reporting date the Group is required to assess whether assessing the classification of the investment as an asset held for there is objective evidence that its investments in associates sale, the valuation as at 1 February 2014 and whether it should and joint ventures may be impaired.
This requires estimates be classified as a discontinued operation, the latter not being of the investments recoverable amounts, including present judged appropriate given its size relative to the Group as a values of the Groups share of future cash flows.
Refer to notes 17 and 34 for further information.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 88 88 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 4 Segmental analysis Income statement 2013 14 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,363 4,423 1,109 1,230 11,125 Retail profit 238 396 123 48 805 Exceptional items 10 Central costs 42 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 17 Operating profit 736 Net finance income 23 Profit before taxation 759 2012 13 Restated Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Sales 4,316 4,194 1,029 1,034 10,573 Retail profit 231 397 107 43 778 Exceptional items 26 Central costs 42 Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 18 Operating profit 692 Net finance costs 1 Profit before taxation 691 The current financial year is the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2014 with the comparative financial year being the 53 weeks ended 2 February 2013.
This only impacts the UK & Ireland businesses with all of the other businesses reporting on a calendar basis as a result of local requirements.
The effect of the 53rd week on the results of the Group in 2012 13 was the inclusion of an additional 72m sales and an immaterial benefit to retail profit.
Balance sheet 2013 14 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,356 1,364 563 611 3,894 Central liabilities 232 Goodwill 2,417 Net cash 238 Net assets 6,317 2012 13 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Segment assets 1,458 1,443 600 620 4,121 Central liabilities 402 Goodwill 2,399 Net cash 38 Net assets 6,156 www.
com 89 89 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Segmental analysis continued Other segmental information 2013 14 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 90 127 24 63 304 Depreciation and amortisation 127 84 19 30 1 261 1 Impairment losses 2 2 2 Non-current assets 3,246 1,970 565 518 15 6,314 2012 13 Other International millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 125 93 49 43 6 316 Depreciation and amortisation 133 72 14 26 3 248 Impairment losses 8 8 2 Non-current assets 3,332 1,984 584 459 20 6,379 1 Impairment losses exclude the exceptional impairment of the investment in Hornbach of 45m.
2 Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive.
This information is predominantly based on the geographical areas in which the Group operates and which are managed separately.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, China, Spain, Russia, Romania, the associate Hornbach and the joint venture Kotas in Turkey.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, interest and tax.
5 Exceptional items millions 2013 14 2012 13 Included within selling and distribution expenses Acquisition and integration costs 5 Ireland restructuring 7 21 UK restructuring 4 2 17 Included within administrative expenses UK restructuring 20 Net pension gain 11 9 Included within other income Profit on disposal of properties 2 2 Included within share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates Net impairment of investment in Hornbach 14 14 Included within finance income Kesa demerger French tax case repayment supplement income 27 27 Exceptional items before tax 17 26 Tax on exceptional items 4 1 Kesa demerger French tax case 118 Exceptional items 131 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 90 90 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 5 Exceptional items continued Acquisition and integration costs of 5m principally comprise costs of acquiring and integrating the Bricostore Romania business.
The exceptional credit of 7m for Ireland restructuring reflects the release of provisions recorded in January 2013 when B&Q Ireland entered into an Examinership process.
It successfully exited Examinership in May 2013 with the closure of only one store.
A net impairment loss of 14m has been recognised in the year on the Groups investment in Hornbach.
This comprises a loss of 45m on remeasurement of the investment to fair value, offset by a 31m gain on the transfer from reserves of cumulative foreign exchange gains since transition to IFRS and is discussed further in note 17.
A 27m repayment supplement provision and 118m taxation provision related to the Kesa demerger French tax case have been released in the year.
Refer to note 9 for further details.
6 Net finance income costs 2012 13 millions 2013 14 Restated Bank overdrafts and bank loans 3 8 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 3 7 Finance leases 4 4 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 2 Capitalised interest 1 Finance costs 12 16 Cash and cash equivalents 6 15 Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 2 Kesa demerger French tax case repayment supplement income note 9 27 Finance income 35 15 Net finance income costs 23 1 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 12m 2012 13: 15m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of 1m 2012 13: 1m.
Capitalised interest relates to central borrowings and is calculated by applying a capitalisation rate of 1.2% 2012 13: 1.6% to expenditure on qualifying assets.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net loss on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 41m 2012 13: 10m gain, offset by a net gain from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 39m 2012 13: 8m loss.
com 91 91 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7 Profit before taxation The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Sales 11,125 10,573 Other income 39 36 Finance income 35 15 Revenue 11,199 10,624 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Operating lease rentals Minimum lease payments Property 440 435 Minimum lease payments Equipment 42 35 Sublease income 16 17 466 453 Rental income received on investment property 7 6 1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 31 27 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property Owned assets 220 212 Under finance leases 10 9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 2 8 Impairment of investment in Hornbach note 17 45 Gain loss on disposal Land and buildings and investment property 2 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 4 Other intangible assets 1 Inventories: write down to net realisable value 32 16 Trade and other receivables: write down of bad and doubtful debts 4 4 1 Of the amortisation of other intangible assets charge, 2m 2012 13: 1m and 29m 2012 13: 26m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Auditors remuneration millions 2013 14 2012 13 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.5 1.3 Audit fees 1.8 1.6 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other taxation advisory services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.4 0.4 Auditors remuneration 2.2 2.0 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 44.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 92 92 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 8 Employees and directors millions 2013 14 2012 13 Wages and salaries 1,279 1,276 Social security costs 265 258 Post-employment benefits Defined contribution 27 17 Defined benefit service cost only 9 17 Share-based compensation 7 9 Employee benefit expenses 1,587 1,577 Number thousands 2013 14 2012 13 Stores 71 72 Administration 5 5 Average number of persons employed 76 77 The average number of persons employed excludes employees in the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Remuneration of key management personnel millions 2013 14 2012 13 Short-term employee benefits 6.6 5.2 Post-employment benefits 1.0 1.4 Share-based compensation 0.1 1.3 7.7 7.9 Key management consists of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 68.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2012 13: nil.
9 Income tax expense millions 2013 14 2012 13 UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 47 47 Adjustments in respect of prior years 7 13 40 34 Overseas tax Current tax on profits for the year 131 128 Kesa demerger French tax case 118 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 11 54 2 74 Deferred tax Current year 16 18 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 9 4 7 19 Income tax expense 49 127 www.
com 93 93 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Income tax expense continued Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% 2012 13: 24%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Profit before taxation 759 691 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23% 2012 13: 24% 175 166 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 2 5 Net income expenses not chargeable deductible for tax purposes 16 6 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 3 3 Losses not recognised 9 11 Foreign tax rate differences 31 18 Adjustments in respect of prior years 136 62 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 9 4 Income tax expense 49 127 The effective rate of tax on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 26% 2012 13: 27%.
Tax on exceptional items for the year is a credit of 114m, 118m of which relates to prior year items.
In 2012 13 tax on exceptional items was a credit of 1m, with no amount relating to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is set out in the Financial Review on page 23.
The overall tax rate for the year is 6% 2012 13: 18% reflecting the release of a 118m exceptional tax provision following the successful resolution of the Kesa demerger French tax case.
Kingfisher paid 138m tax to the French tax authorities in the year ended 31 January 2004 as a consequence of the Kesa Electricals demerger and recorded this as an exceptional tax charge.
Kingfisher appealed successfully against this tax liability and as a result received 169m from the French tax authorities in September 2009, representing a refund of the 138m and 31m of repayment supplement.
The French tax authorities appealed this decision and the hearing took place in May 2011 with the Court of Appeal finding in Kingfishers favour.
In July 2013 the Conseil dEtat, Frances ultimate court, found in favour of Kingfisher regarding the Kesa demerger tax case, which concluded the matter.
Whilst a refund was received from the French tax authorities following the first positive decision in 2009, the Group continued to provide against the risk while litigation was ongoing.
A 27m repayment supplement provision and 118m taxation provision related to the case have subsequently been released and treated as exceptional.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 67m has been credited directly to equity 2012 13: 14m charge, of which a 19m credit 2012 13: 6m credit is included in current tax and a 48m credit 2012 13: 20m charge is included in deferred tax.
Impact of changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate fell from 24% to 23% from 1 April 2013 and will fall to 21% from 1 April 2014 and then to 20% from 1 April 2015.
As all these rates have been enacted by the balance sheet date, their impact has been fully reflected in this Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 94 94 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 10 Earnings per share 2013 14 2012 13 Weighted Weighted average average number of Earnings number of Earnings Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share millions millions pence millions millions pence Basic earnings per share 709 2,363 30.0 564 2,339 24.1 Effect of dilutive share options 19 0.3 34 0.3 Diluted earnings per share 709 2,382 29.7 564 2,373 23.8 Basic earnings per share 709 2,363 30.0 564 2,339 24.1 Exceptional items before tax 17 0.7 26 1.1 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 141 6.0 67 2.8 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share 552 2,363 23.4 522 2,339 22.3 Diluted earnings per share 709 2,382 29.7 564 2,373 23.8 Exceptional items before tax 17 0.7 26 1.1 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 141 5.9 67 2.8 Financing fair value remeasurements 2 0.1 2 0.1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 552 2,382 23.2 522 2,373 22.0 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 Dividends millions 2013 14 2012 13 Dividends to equity shareholders of the Company Final dividend for the year ended 2 February 2013 of 6.37p per share 28 January 2012: 6.37p per share 150 148 Interim dividend for the year ended 1 February 2014 of 3.12p per share 2 February 2013: 3.09p per share 74 73 224 221 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 1 February 2014 of 6.78p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
com 95 95 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Goodwill millions Cost At 3 February 2013 2,524 Additions 18 Exchange differences 1 At 1 February 2014 2,541 Impairment At 3 February 2013 125 Exchange differences 1 At 1 February 2014 124 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 2,417 Cost At 29 January 2012 2,521 Exchange differences 3 At 2 February 2013 2,524 Impairment At 29 January 2012 124 Exchange differences 1 At 2 February 2013 125 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 2,399 During the year the Group acquired the Bricostore Romania companies resulting in additions to goodwill of 18m.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland China Romania Total At 1 February 2014 Cost 1,798 520 81 124 18 2,541 Impairment 124 124 Net carrying amount 1,798 520 81 18 2,417 At 2 February 2013 Cost 1,798 520 81 125 2,524 Impairment 125 125 Net carrying amount 1,798 520 81 2,399 The recoverable amounts of these groups of CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France, Poland and Romania.
All CGU value-in-use calculations are considered to have been valued using level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 96 96 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 12 Goodwill continued The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis, including the use of prior year discount and growth rates, and does not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are set out below.
Assumptions The cash flow projections are based on approved financial budgets and strategic plans covering a three year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations for future market development.
Key drivers in the plans are like-for-like LFL sales, margin and operating profit percentage.
LFL sales projections take into consideration both external factors such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading plans.
Cash flows beyond this three year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for retail businesses operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash flows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt, leases and equity, weighted according to an estimate of the CGUs capital gearing.
A risk adjustment is also made for the country in which the CGU operates.
The pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates and long-term growth rates used are as follows: 2013 14 Annual % rate UK France Poland Romania Discount rate 8.9 10.5 10.2 12.7 Long-term growth rate 3.0 2.6 3.3 3.7 2012 13 Annual % rate UK France Poland Romania Discount rate 8.9 9.6 10.5 n a Long-term growth rate 2.8 2.3 3.5 n a www.
com 97 97 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Other intangible assets Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 3 February 2013 414 9 423 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 1 Additions 86 2 88 Disposals 7 7 Exchange differences 3 3 At 1 February 2014 490 12 502 Amortisation At 3 February 2013 253 4 257 Charge for the year 30 1 31 Disposals 5 5 Exchange differences 3 3 At 1 February 2014 275 5 280 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 215 7 222 Cost At 29 January 2012 343 9 352 Additions 72 72 Disposals 3 3 Exchange differences 2 2 At 2 February 2013 414 9 423 Amortisation At 29 January 2012 226 3 229 Charge for the year 26 1 27 Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 2 2 At 2 February 2013 253 4 257 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 161 5 166 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 98 98 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost At 3 February 2013 3,180 2,540 5,720 Additions 85 135 220 Acquisition of subsidiaries 55 5 60 Disposals 12 29 41 Exchange differences 148 64 212 At 1 February 2014 3,160 2,587 5,747 Depreciation At 3 February 2013 396 1,576 1,972 Charge for the year 51 178 229 Impairment losses 1 1 2 Disposals 3 29 32 Exchange differences 16 33 49 At 1 February 2014 429 1,693 2,122 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 2,731 894 3,625 Cost At 29 January 2012 3,049 2,375 5,424 Additions 88 171 259 Disposals 19 42 61 Transfers to investment property 12 12 Exchange differences 74 36 110 At 2 February 2013 3,180 2,540 5,720 Depreciation At 29 January 2012 345 1,412 1,757 Charge for the year 46 174 220 Impairment losses 1 7 8 Disposals 5 37 42 Exchange differences 9 20 29 At 2 February 2013 396 1,576 1,972 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 2,784 964 3,748 Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 44 34 78 At 2 February 2013 81 46 127 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 18 33 51 At 2 February 2013 19 34 53 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment in the year has been nil 2012 13: 1m.
The cumulative total of borrowing costs included at the balance sheet date, net of depreciation, is 27m 2012 13: 27m.
com 99 99 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,436 134 590 3,160 3,180 Depreciation 152 6 271 429 396 Net carrying amount 2,284 128 319 2,731 2,784 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 1 February 2014 is 254m 2012 13: 240m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in November by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.4bn 2012 13: 3.5bn.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
All the property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
15 Investment property millions Cost At 3 February 2013 79 Disposals 3 Transfers to assets held for sale 10 Exchange differences 6 At 1 February 2014 60 Depreciation At 3 February 2013 13 Charge for the year 1 Disposals 1 Exchange differences 3 At 1 February 2014 10 Net carrying amount At 1 February 2014 50 Cost At 29 January 2012 67 Additions 3 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 12 Exchange differences 3 At 2 February 2013 79 Depreciation At 29 January 2012 12 Charge for the year 1 At 2 February 2013 13 Net carrying amount At 2 February 2013 66 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 77m 2012 13: 121m.
All the investment properties held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 100 100 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 16 Subsidiaries A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 4 of the Companys separate financial statements.
17 Investments in joint ventures and associates millions At 3 February 2013 289 Share of post-tax results before impairment 22 Share of post-tax results exceptional impairment 45 Dividends 11 Transfers to assets held for sale 198 Exchange differences 25 At 1 February 2014 32 At 29 January 2012 271 Share of post-tax results 20 Dividends 10 Exchange differences 8 At 2 February 2013 289 In 2013 14 Kingfisher acquired Bricostore in Romania and announced its intention to pilot four Screwfix outlets in Germany in 2014.
At the same time Kingfisher undertook a review of its strategic investment in Hornbach, which has operations in both of these markets.
On 31 January 2014 the Group decided to divest its equity stake in Hornbach and also waive its right to appoint directors to the Hornbach board.
Following this decision, the Group concluded it had lost the ability to exercise significant influence over the Hornbach businesses, despite maintaining a 21% equity interest at the balance sheet date.
This conclusion was reached based on the Group ceasing to participate in the significant financial and operating policy decisions made by Hornbach.
On 31 January 2014 the Groups investment was written down to its fair value of 198m, resulting in an exceptional impairment loss of 45m being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The impairment loss is included within the Groups share of post-tax results, however this excludes an exceptional transfer from reserves of cumulative foreign exchange gains since transition to IFRS of 31m.
The Hornbach investment and retail profit contribution is included in the Other International reporting segment.
In 2013 14 the Group recorded a 14m pre-exceptional profit in relation to its share of Hornbachs post-tax results, comprising 26m of retail profit less 12m share of interest and tax.
Due to active marketing of the shares at the balance sheet date, the investment was reclassified as an asset held for sale refer to note 34.
Following the end of the 2013 14 financial year, on 24 March 2014 Kingfisher agreed to sell all the shares it holds in Hornbach Holding AG and Hornbach-Baumarkt AG which together formed its 21.2% stake in Hornbach for approximately 195m.
No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2012 13: nil.
Details of the remaining significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: Country of Class of incorporation % interest held shares owned Main activity Principal joint ventures 1 Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 50% Ordinary Retailing Principal associates 1 Crealfi S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance 1 Owing to local conditions, this company prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
com 101 101 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: 2013 14 2012 13 millions Joint ventures Associates Total Joint ventures Associates Total Non-current assets 21 2 23 28 269 297 Current assets 47 81 128 56 303 359 Current liabilities 35 69 104 47 211 258 Non-current liabilities 13 2 15 8 101 109 Share of net assets 20 12 32 29 260 289 Sales 166 631 797 165 605 770 Operating expenses 155 603 758 156 576 732 Operating profit 11 28 39 9 29 38 Net finance costs 3 6 9 3 7 10 Profit before taxation 8 22 30 6 22 28 Income tax 1 7 8 1 7 8 Share of post-tax results before impairment 7 15 22 5 15 20 Exceptional impairment 45 45 Share of post-tax results 7 30 23 5 15 20 18 Inventories millions 2013 14 2012 13 Finished goods for resale 2,054 2,083 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 1 February 2014 is 6,461m 2012 13: 6,093m.
19 Trade and other receivables millions 2013 14 2012 13 Non-current Prepayments 11 13 Property receivables 2 2 Other receivables 2 3 15 18 Current Trade receivables 64 50 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 9 11 Net trade receivables 55 39 Property receivables 3 3 Prepayments 137 135 Other receivables 395 368 590 545 Trade and other receivables 605 563 Other receivables principally comprise rebates due from suppliers.
The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 102 102 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 20 Cash and cash equivalents millions 2013 14 2012 13 Cash at bank and in hand 238 268 Short-term deposits 297 130 535 398 Short-term deposits comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
The Group enters into multi-currency net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
21 Trade and other payables millions 2013 14 2012 13 Current Trade payables 1,403 1,370 Other taxation and social security 227 227 Deferred income 220 168 Accruals and other payables 636 665 2,486 2,430 Non-current Accruals and other payables 86 115 Trade and other payables 2,572 2,545 Accruals include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
22 Borrowings millions 2013 14 2012 13 Current Bank overdrafts 1 Bank loans 3 54 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 75 32 Finance leases 15 13 94 99 Non-current Bank loans 11 14 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 172 266 Finance leases 47 52 230 332 Borrowings 324 431 www.
com 103 103 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Borrowings continued Bank overdrafts and loans Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current bank loans mature within the next 12 months.
Both are arranged at floating rates of interest.
Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of three years 2012 13: three years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 2.8% 2012 13: 3.8%.
At the year end, there were no drawn amounts under Chinese Renminbi committed facilities and therefore a nil effective borrowing rate 2012 13: 6.2%.
These facilities are unsecured 2012 13: assets worth RMB 1.6 billion 163m secured a bank facility in China, which matured in 2013.
Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt Medium Term Notes MTNs were issued in prior years under the Groups 2,500m MTN programme and further notes issued as a US Private Placement USPP.
2013 14 2012 13 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying millions outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount amount 1 US Dollar USPP 24 05 13 6.14% 6.1% 32 2 Sterling MTN 73m 15 12 14 5.63% 5.8% 75 78 1 US Dollar USPP $68m 24 05 16 6.30% 6.3% 45 49 1 US Dollar USPP $179m 24 05 18 6.40% 6.4% 127 139 247 298 1 $247m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6 month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
$50m was repaid at maturity in May 2013.
2 Swapped to floating rate Euro based on 3 month EURIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Group values its MTNs and USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the MTNs and USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 1 February 2014, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups MTNs and USPP carrying amounts by 25m 2012 13: 38m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 1 February 2014.
Finance leases The Group leases certain of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is seven years 2012 13: seven years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2012 13: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 Present value Minimum Present value Minimum millions of payments payments of payments payments Less than one year 15 17 13 15 One to five years 28 39 30 42 More than five years 19 26 22 31 Total 62 82 65 88 Less amounts representing finance charges 20 23 Present value of minimum lease payments 62 65 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.4% 2012 13: 8.5%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 104 104 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 22 Borrowings continued Fair value millions 2013 14 2012 13 Bank overdrafts 1 Bank loans 16 69 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 254 307 Finance leases 79 86 Borrowings 350 462 Where available, market values have been used to determine the fair values of borrowings.
Where market values are not available or are not reliable, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in a mix of Level 1 and Level 2 inputs as defined by IFRS 13 Fair value measurements being used to value the borrowings of the Group.
23 Derivatives The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Fair value hedges 33 69 Cash flow hedges 8 14 Net investment hedges 18 Non-designated hedges 7 22 18 59 Non-current assets 40 55 Current assets 5 33 Current liabilities 27 17 Non-current liabilities 12 18 59 The Group holds the following financial instruments at fair value: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Cross currency interest rate swaps 42 63 Foreign exchange contracts 3 25 Derivative assets 45 88 millions 2013 14 2012 13 Cross currency interest rate swaps 9 12 Foreign exchange contracts 18 17 Derivative liabilities 27 29 The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
At 1 February 2014 net derivative assets included in net cash amount to 27m 2012 13: 71m net derivative assets.
com 105 105 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23 Derivatives continued Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise interest rate swap contracts that convert fixed rate debt issued under the Groups Medium Term Note programme and the US Private Placement to floating rate liabilities, along with certain cross-currency swaps.
At 1 February 2014 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 307m 2012 13: 261m.
During the year, cross-currency interest rate swaps have expired to coincide with repayments of underlying debt.
The Sterling equivalent amount of those expired swaps at year end exchange rates was 31m.
Cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 1 February 2014 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 419m 2012 13: 441m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months.
Losses of 9m 2012 13: 8m gains have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Net investment hedges Cross-currency interest rate swaps hedge currency exposures of overseas investments.
At 1 February 2014 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is nil 2012 13: 90m.
Non-designated hedges The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
At 1 February 2014 the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 813m 2012 13: 1,062m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short-term foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
Kingfisher enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with over-thecounter derivatives.
These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties to settle cashflows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations.
Offsetting of derivative assets: Net amounts of Gross amounts of Gross amounts derivative assets derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivative assets balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 1 February 2014 45 45 27 18 At 2 February 2013 88 88 29 59 Offsetting of derivative liabilities: Net amounts of derivative Gross amounts of Gross amounts liabilities derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivative liabilities balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 1 February 2014 27 27 27 At 2 February 2013 29 29 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 106 106 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 24 Financial risk management Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar and Polish Zloty.
The Euro and Polish Zloty exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Ireland and Poland.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and consider effective risk management solutions.
Balance sheet Euro translation exposure is currently hedged by maintaining a proportion of the Groups debt in Euro.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its issued debt using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net debt cash is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 1 February 2014 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 111 175 28 99 150 78 173 236 Fair value adjustments to net cash 3 22 25 Financing derivatives 75 763 201 173 233 108 27 Net cash 39 588 28 300 1 311 281 238 At 2 February 2013 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 114 91 39 135 188 3 103 14 5 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 32 38 Financing derivatives 78 1,064 192 222 315 328 71 Net cash 42 973 39 327 2 318 103 342 38 www.
com 107 107 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management continued Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are borrowings, deposits and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
2013 14 2012 13 Net finance Net finance costs costs Income Income millions costs costs Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Sterling 6 10 Euro 3 3 US Dollar 3 3 Polish Zloty 2 3 Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation of financial instruments.
2013 14 2012 13 Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow hedges hedges millions Increase Increase Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges US Dollar against Sterling 17 18 US Dollar against Euro 20 21 The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in equity until the purchases occur.
See note 23 for further details.
The retranslation of foreign currency borrowings and derivatives designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations is reported in equity and offset by the retranslation of the hedged net investments.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reflecting the positions at 1 February 2014 and 2 February 2013 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 108 108 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 24 Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next three years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 1 February 2014 Bank overdrafts 1 1 Bank loans 3 2 3 4 2 14 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 86 10 49 7 112 264 Finance leases 17 15 11 7 6 26 82 Derivatives receipts 86 10 49 7 112 264 Derivatives payments 87 2 39 3 99 230 At 2 February 2013 Bank loans 55 4 2 4 5 70 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 47 87 10 52 7 117 320 Finance leases 15 16 12 8 6 31 88 Derivatives receipts 47 87 10 52 7 117 320 Derivatives payments 30 93 2 39 2 98 264 At 1 February 2014 the Group has an undrawn revolving committed facility of 200m which matures in August 2016.
The 200m facility contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12 month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 1 February 2014. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with the strongest short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 1 February 2014, the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was 50m 2012 13: 39m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of cash at bank and short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 1 February 2014, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 50m 2012 13: 41m, of which 4m 2012 13: 3m are over 120 days past due.
Refer to note 36 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 27. www.
com 109 109 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Deferred tax millions 2013 14 2012 13 Deferred tax assets 12 17 Deferred tax liabilities 251 303 239 286 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
PostAccelerated tax Gains on employment millions depreciation property Provisions Tax losses benefits Other Total At 3 February 2013 136 132 20 8 57 11 286 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Charge credit to income statement 24 17 2 2 4 7 Charge credit to equity 1 51 2 48 Exchange differences 9 4 2 1 1 9 At 1 February 2014 151 114 19 7 5 5 239 At 29 January 2012 115 144 33 7 30 3 246 Charge credit to income statement 17 14 15 1 2 19 Charge credit to equity 27 7 20 Exchange differences 4 2 2 2 1 1 At 2 February 2013 136 132 20 8 57 11 286 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of 221m 2012 13: 243m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 22m 2012 13: 24m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 199m 2012 13: 219m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are tax losses arising in China of 181m 2012 13: 187m which can be carried forward only in the next one to five years.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 3,331m 2012 13: 2,980m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
This is because the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group and therefore no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
26 Provisions Onerous property millions contracts Restructuring Total At 3 February 2013 21 52 73 Acquisition of subsidiaries 11 11 Charge credit to income statement 2 5 3 Utilised in the year 4 22 26 Exchange differences 1 1 At 1 February 2014 29 25 54 Current liabilities 4 4 8 Non-current liabilities 25 21 46 29 25 54 Within the onerous property contracts provisions, Kingfisher has provided against future liabilities for properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties, along with properties acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries at above-market rents.
Such provisions exclude those related to restructuring programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, rates and service charges.
Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK, Ireland and China restructuring programmes.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 110 110 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 27 Post-employment benefits The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK.
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature, and the principal overseas defined contribution scheme is in China.
The overseas schemes are not material in relation to the Group as a whole.
Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Charge to operating profit 27 17 From July 2012 an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically enrolled into the scheme from 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employer appointed directors, one independent director and four member nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group Pensions Department of Kingfisher plc.
The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience is worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2013.
Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 36m from April 2014.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the 20 year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
com 111 111 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits continued Income statement 2013 14 2012 13 Restated millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Amounts charged credited to operating profit Current service cost 2 79 13 4 17 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Exceptional curtailment gain 27 27 5 7 12 11 4 7 Amounts charged credited to net finance costs Net interest income expense 4 2 2 2 2 Total charged credited to income statement 1 9 10 13 6 7 Of the net charge to operating profit, a 8m charge 2012 13: 14m charge restated and 4m charge 2012 13: 21m credit restated are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
In the prior year, the closure to future accrual resulted in an exceptional non-cash curtailment gain of 27m, representing the one-off reduction in accounting liabilities as benefits were no longer linked to future salary increases other than in line with inflation.
Balance sheet 2013 14 2012 13 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,135 92 2,227 1,994 93 2,087 Fair value of scheme assets 2,106 21 2,127 2,065 22 2,087 Deficit surplus in scheme 29 71 100 71 71 Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 Restated millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Surplus deficit in scheme at beginning of year 71 71 25 40 15 Current service cost 2 7 9 13 4 17 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Curtailment gain 27 27 Net interest income expense 4 2 2 2 2 Net actuarial losses gains 131 4 127 7 22 29 Contributions paid by employer 32 1 33 40 1 41 Exchange differences 44 4 4 Deficit surplus in scheme at end of year 29 71 100 71 71 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year 1,994 93 2,087 1,902 60 1,962 Current service cost 2 7 9 13 4 17 Curtailment gain 27 27 Interest expense 90 3 93 84 3 87 Actuarial losses gains changes in financial assumptions 8 5 3 80 18 98 Actuarial gains changes in demographic assumptions 16 16 Actuarial losses experience adjustments 120 1 121 4 4 Contributions paid by employees 5 5 Benefits paid 63 1 64 63 1 64 Exchange differences 66 5 5 Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 2,135 92 2,227 1,994 93 2,087 The calculation of the current year UK defined benefit obligation allows for the detailed membership data provided for the funding valuation as at 31 March 2013.
It therefore incorporates a number of experience adjustments since the previous valuation as at 31 March 2010.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 112 112 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 27 Post-employment benefits continued The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligation is 62% 2012 13: 62% in respect of deferred members and 38% 2012 13: 38% in respect of current pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 21 years 2012 13: 20 years.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 Restated millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 2,065 22 2,087 1,927 20 1,947 Administration costs 3 3 3 3 Interest income 94 1 95 86 1 87 Actuarial losses gains actual return less interest income 19 19 73 73 Contributions paid by employer 32 1 33 40 1 41 Contributions paid by employees 5 5 Benefits paid 63 1 64 63 1 64 Exchange differences 2 2 1 1 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 2,106 21 2,127 2,065 22 2,087 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2013 14 2012 13 millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total Government bonds 741 741 35% 722 722 35% Corporate bonds 650 650 31% 645 645 31% UK equities 73 73 3% 158 158 7% Overseas equities 443 443 20% 394 394 19% Property 32 32 2% 70 70 3% Cash and other 167 21 188 9% 76 22 98 5% Total fair value of scheme assets 2,106 21 2,127 100% 2,065 22 2,087 100% All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 157m 2012 13: 92m of property and other assets.
Interest rate and inflation rate swaps are employed in the UK scheme to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds for liability risk management purposes and are included in the Corporate bonds category above.
The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 36m.
Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is based on the yield on the iBoxx over 15 year AA-rated Sterling corporate bond index adjusted for the difference in term between iBoxx and scheme liabilities.
2013 14 2012 13 Annual % rate UK Overseas UK Overseas Discount rate 4.4 3.2 4.6 2.8 Price inflation 3.3 2.0 3.3 2.0 Rate of pension increases 3.1 3.3 Salary escalation n a 2.3 n a 2.5 For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used in the actuarial valuations have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme from 2010 to 2013.
The base mortality assumptions have been derived by adjusting standard mortality tables SAPS tables projected forward to 2013 using the CMI 2013 core projection improvement factors, as published by the UK actuarial profession.
In addition, allowance has been made for future increases in life expectancy.
The allowance is in line with CMI 2013 improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.25% pa for males and 1.0% pa for females.
These improvements take into account trends observed within the scheme over the past decade and general population trends.
com 113 113 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Post-employment benefits continued The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: 2010 funding Years 2013 14 2012 13 valuation Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now Male 86.7 86.7 86.4 Female 87.3 87.4 87.1 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Male 87.4 87.4 87.1 Female 88.6 89.0 88.7 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 43m Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 38m Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 38m Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 68m Due to the asset-liability matching investment strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation would be significantly offset by movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.
28 Share capital Number of ordinary Ordinary shares share capital millions millions At 3 February 2013 2,372 373 New shares issued under share schemes 4 At 1 February 2014 2,376 373 At 29 January 2012 2,369 372 New shares issued under share schemes 3 1 At 2 February 2013 2,372 373 5 Ordinary shares have a par value of 15 pence per share.
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 114 114 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 29 Other reserves Cash flow hedge Translation millions reserve reserve Other Total At 3 February 2013 8 374 159 525 Currency translation differences Group 210 210 Joint ventures and associates 25 25 Transferred to income statement 31 31 Cash flow hedges Fair value losses 4 4 Losses transferred to inventories 9 9 Tax on other comprehensive income 2 4 2 Other comprehensive income for the year 3 262 259 At 1 February 2014 5 112 159 266 At 29 January 2012 7 247 159 413 Currency translation differences Group 122 122 Joint ventures and associates 8 8 Cash flow hedges Fair value losses 14 14 Gains transferred to inventories 8 8 Tax on other comprehensive income 7 3 4 Other comprehensive income for the year 15 127 112 At 2 February 2013 8 374 159 525 The other category of reserve represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993 and the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993.
30 Share-based payments 2013 14 2012 13 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Options price Options price Number Number Outstanding at beginning of year 62,167,023 0.39 89,247,441 0.33 1, 2 Granted during the year 6,279,763 1.37 12,292,718 0.50 Forfeited during the year 9,569,630 0.27 12,013,719 0.31 Exercised during the year 20,753,532 0.33 27,359,417 0.27 Outstanding at end of year 38,123,624 0.61 62,167,023 0.39 Exercisable at end of year 2,731,735 0.41 6,253,122 0.29 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 1 February 2014 and 2 February 2013 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2014 and 2013 Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme KISS grants respectively, based on the bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISS are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price KISS, Performance Share Plan and discounted Sharesave options see below.
com 115 115 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Share-based payments continued Information on the share schemes is given in note 14 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is 3.53 2012 13: 2.81.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 3.15 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.9 years 2012 13: 3.1 years.
The Group recognised a total expense of 7m in the year ended 1 February 2014 2012 13: 9m relating to equity-settled sharebased payment transactions.
The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
Details of the CSOP element of the award are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
2 Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of grant.
Expiry of overseas KISS schemes and CSOP is 6 months from the date of vesting.
Expiry of overseas PSP schemes is 1 year from the date of vesting.
3 Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
4 The fair values of UK and International Sharesave awards granted on or before 1 January 2009 have been restated to reflect the 17 January 2008 amendment to IFRS 2 on vesting conditions and cancellations.
31 Cash generated by operations 2012 13 millions 2013 14 Restated Operating profit 736 692 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 8 20 Depreciation and amortisation 261 248 Impairment losses 2 8 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets 1 5 Share-based compensation charge 7 9 Increase in inventories 31 191 Increase in trade and other receivables 60 6 Increase in trade and other payables 118 19 Movement in provisions 29 14 Movement in post-employment benefits 21 48 Cash generated by operations 976 730 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 116 116 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 32 Net cash millions 2013 14 2012 13 Cash and cash equivalents 535 398 Bank overdrafts 1 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 534 398 Bank loans 14 68 Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 247 298 Financing derivatives 27 71 Finance leases 62 65 Net cash 238 38 millions 2013 14 2012 13 Net cash debt at beginning of year 38 88 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 153 106 Repayment of bank loans 89 31 Repayment of Medium Term Notes and other fixed term debt 33 162 Receipt on financing derivatives 6 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 13 12 Cash flow movement in net cash 282 99 Borrowings acquired 35 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 47 27 Net cash at end of year 238 38 33 Acquisitions On 31 May 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the Bricostore Romania companies from Group Bresson, a French retail company.
Consideration of 51m comprised 35m cash and a further 16m non-cash element, representing the obligation to assume a liability of the vendor.
Goodwill of 18m has been recognised on provisional net assets of 33m, representing a strategic premium to strengthen the Groups position in Eastern Europe and anticipated synergies that will arise from the acquisition.
millions Provisional fair value amounts recognised of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Other intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment 60 Inventories 29 Trade and other receivables 22 Cash and cash equivalents 7 Trade and other payables 34 Current tax liabilities 3 Deferred tax assets 1 Deferred tax liabilities 4 Borrowings 35 Provisions 11 Total identifiable net assets acquired 33 Goodwill 18 Total consideration 51 The acquisition amounts recorded in the consolidated cash flow statement for the year are: millions Cash consideration 35 Cash acquired 7 Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 28 Immediately following the acquisition, Kingfisher settled Bricostore Romanias borrowings of 35m included within repayment of loans in the cash flow statement.
com 117 117 Accounts Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Acquisitions continued Acquisition related fees of 2m have been charged in the consolidated income statement in the year.
Owing to local conditions, Bricostore Romania prepares its financial statements to 31 December.
In the period from 31 May 2013 to 31 December 2013, it contributed sales of 72m and a retail profit of 1m.
If the acquisition had occurred at the start of the financial year, the Groups sales would have been 11,163m and Group operating profit, after exceptional items, would have been 734m for the year ended 1 February 2014.
34 Assets held for sale millions 2013 14 2012 13 Assets held for sale 208 Assets held for sale include the Groups investment in Hornbach of 198m, which was subsequently agreed to be sold on 24 March 2014 for approximately 195m see note 17.
It also includes a UK freehold property asset of 10m, which was subsequently sold on 4 February 2014 for 32m.
The investment in Hornbach is measured based on the 31 January 2014 market price of the shares of Hornbach Holding AG and Hornbach-Baumarkt AG which are listed on the German Stock Exchange, along with the sale price agreed after the balance sheet date for the unlisted shares in Hornbach Holding AG.
The fair value of the investment in Hornbach has been determined using a mixture of level 1 and level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
35 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Less than one year 460 461 One to five years 1,571 1,589 More than five years 2,347 2,637 4,378 4,687 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: millions 2013 14 2012 13 Less than one year 31 32 One to five years 101 100 More than five years 104 118 236 250 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 197m 2012 13: 203m.
Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 31m 2012 13: 36m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 118 118 Strategic Report Governance Accounts 36 Contingent liabilities The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, only 1m 2012 13: 1m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
37 Related party transactions During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2013 14 2012 13 Income Receivable Income Receivable millions expense payable expense payable Transactions with Kotas Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.2 0.1 Commission and other income 1.2 0.6 0.8 0.4 Transactions with Hornbach Holding A. G. in which the Group holds a 21% interest Commission and other income 0.3 0.9 0.1 Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 7.1 0.4 4.3 0.3 Transactions with Kingfisher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 0.8 0.1 1.4 0.1 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is given in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are detailed in note 27.
38 Post balance sheet events Certain assets classified as held for sale were disposed of subsequent to the balance sheet date, refer to note 34 for further detail.
