Strategic Report Governance Accounts Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Share price history The Annual General Meeting of Kingfisher plc will be held per ordinary share Dollars per ADR on Thursday, 12 June 2014 at 11.00am at the Paddington Financial year High Low High Low London Hilton Hotel, 146 Praed Street, London W2 1EE.
Third quarter results 25 November 2014 Based on the daily closing price of Kingfisher plc ADRs in the Over-the-Counter Preliminary results to 31 January 2015 March 2015 OTC market.
Registrar Dividend Computershare Investor Services PLC The interim dividend for the financial year ended 1 February The Pavilions 2014 of 3.12p per share was paid on 15 November 2013.
Bridgwater Road The table below provides the payment information for the final Bristol BS99 6ZZ dividend of 6.78p per share, subject to shareholder approval Telephone: 0870 702 0129 at the Annual General Meeting on 12 June 2014: Website: http: www.
co. uk Ex-dividend date 14 May 2014 Shareholder enquiries Record date 16 May 2014 Any queries that shareholders have regarding their shareholdings, Final date for return of DRIP mandate such as a change of name or address, transfer of shares, lost forms currency elections 23 May 2014 share certificates or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Euro exchange rate notification 27 May 2014 Registrar using the contact details above.
A Shareholder Helpline Payment date and DRIP purchase 16 June 2014 is available on UK business days between 8.30am and 5.30pm and contains an automated self-service functionality which is Payment methods available 24 hours a day.
Shareholders can elect to receive their dividends in a number of ways: Share dealing facilities Shareholders have the opportunity to buy or sell Kingfisher plc Cheque: Dividends will automatically be paid to shareholders shares using a share dealing facility operated by the Registrar.
by cheque, which will be sent by post to the shareholder's registered address: Telephone share dealing: Commission is 1%, plus 35: stamp duty at 0.5% is payable on purchases.
The service is available BACS: Dividends can be paid by mandate directly to a from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday excluding bank UK bank or building society account through the BACS holidays.
This method of payment reduces the risk of your cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
Shareholders Internet share dealing: Commission is 1%, subject to a wishing to receive their dividends in this way can update minimum charge of 30: stamp duty at 0.5% is payable their mandate instructions at www.
The service is available to place orders out of should complete a dividend mandate form and return it to market hours.
the Registrars: Terms and conditions of both of these services can be obtained by calling 0870 702 0129. Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The Company also offers shareholders a DRIP, whereby shareholders can use their Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company.
Kingfisher plc is legally obliged to make its share register Shareholders can apply online at www.
co. uk or available to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders complete a mandate form and return it to the address shown may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from above: and unauthorised investment companies.
We are aware that some shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or Global Payments Service: This service, provided by the correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments typically from overseas based brokers who target UK paid directly into their bank account in their chosen shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless local currency.
To view terms and register, please visit or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
com 135 135 Accounts Shareholder information continued American Depositary Receipt ADR Forward-looking statements The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 ADR programme in Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts the United States.
Each ADR represents two Kingfisher shares.
are forward-looking and should be considered, amongst other statutory provisions, in light of the safe harbour provisions of the Electronic communication United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive shareholder All statements other than historical facts may be forward-looking documentation in electronic form can sign up by visiting statements.
Such statements are therefore subject to risks, www.
co. uk ecomms and registering their details.
assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results When registering for electronic communications, shareholders to differ materially from those expressed or implied because will be sent an email each time the Company publishes statutory they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements documents, providing a link to the information.
include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations around the Companys programme Electing for electronic communications does not mean that known as Creating the Leader and its associated eight steps.
shareholders cannot obtain hard copy documents.
Should shareholders require a paper copy of any of the Companys Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of shareholder documentation, they should contact the Registrar relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, at the address stated under the section headed Registrar.
anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their Corporate website negative or other variations or comparable terminology and Shareholders are encouraged to visit Kingfishers corporate include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a website www.
The website includes information number of places throughout this Annual Report and Accounts about the Company, its strategy and business performance, and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or latest news and press releases and approach to corporate current expectations and those of our officers, directors and governance.
The Investor Relations section is a key tool for employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of shareholders, with information about Kingfishers share price, operations, financial condition, changes in tax rates, liquidity, financial results, shareholders meetings and dividends.
This prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
section also contains frequently asked questions and copies of the current and past annual reports.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, Kingfisher has an Investor Relations app for the iPad.
The app but are not limited to, global economic business conditions, provides access to the latest share price information, corporate monetary and interest rate policies, foreign currency exchange news, financial reports, presentations, corporate videos and rates, equity and property prices, the impact of competition, earnings webcasts both online and offline.
It is updated with the inflation and deflation, changes to regulations, taxes and latest financial information at the same time as the corporate legislation, changes to consumer saving and spending habits: website.
To discover more, download it free from the App store.
and our success in managing these factors.
Document viewing Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance Shareholders will have the opportunity to view certain and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and documentation as outlined in the Notice of Annual General expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
Reliance Meeting from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting, until should not be placed on any forward-looking statement.
The rules of the Kingfisher Incentive Share The forward-looking statements contained herein speak plans and the Articles of Association of the Company and only as of the date of this Annual Report and the Company other documentation referred to in this Annual Report can be undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking viewed at the registered office during normal business hours.
statement, whether as a result of new information, future events Company Secretary and Registered Office or otherwise.
Kathryn Hudson Kingfisher plc 3 Sheldon Square Paddington London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 Fax: 44 0 20 7644 1001 www.
com Registered in England and Wales Registered Number 01664812 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 136 136 Glossary Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, financing fair KEP Kingfisher Economic Profit represents earnings after a value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, charge for the annual cost of capital employed in the business.
related tax items and tax on prior year items including the impact A definition is provided in the Financial Review pages 20 to 27. of rate changes on deferred tax.
A reconciliation to statutory LFL stands for like-for-like sales growth which represents the amounts is set out in the Financial Review pages 20 to 27. constant currency, year-on-year sales growth for stores that Banque fide France data includes relocated and extended stores.
have been open for more than a year.
Brico Dpt comparable market is a rolling 12 month average of LME is the legislative change shortening payment terms in Banque fide France 60% and I C www.
com trade data France, implemented over the three years to 2012.
Market for the UKs leading home improvement retailers Common means two or more operating companies selling the Kingfisher estimate for the UK RMI Repairs, Maintenance & same product or a similar product but from the same supplier Improvement market incorporates GfK data, which includes where the same product is not possible due to market legal new space but which excludes B&Q Ireland and private retailers reasons e. g. electrical extension cable which is the same e. g. IKEA and other smaller independents.
It is on a cash sales supplier but with different electrical sockets.
basis and is adjusted for discounts.
Constant currency 13 week basis In the UK & Ireland Kingfisher Net cash comprises borrowings and financing derivatives reports each financial year up to the nearest Saturday to 31 excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents January.
In 2012 13 this resulted in a 14 week fourth quarter.
Constant currency change 52 week basis In the UK & Ireland Omnichannel allowing customers to shop with us in any way Kingfisher reports each financial year up to the nearest Saturday they prefer via shops, the internet or catalogues.
In 2012 13 this resulted in a 53 week year.
Other International consists of China, Poland, Romania, EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Russia, Spain, Turkey Kotas JV and Hornbach in Germany.
amortisation which is calculated as Retail profit less central Retail profit is operating profit stated before central costs, costs and before depreciation and amortisation.
exceptional items, amortisation of acquisition intangibles and EBITDAR earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, the Groups share of interest and tax of JVs and associates.
amortisation and property operating lease rentals which is 2012 13 Group and UK retail profit comparatives restated by calculated as Retail profit less central costs, before depreciation 3 million to reflect reclassification of pension administrative and amortisation and property operating lease rentals.
expenses from finance costs to retail profit in the UK, as per the amended IAS 19.
France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dpt France.
Sales Joint Venture Kotas JV and Associate Hornbach sales Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations less are not consolidated.
the amount spent on tax, interest and capital expenditure during the year excluding acquisitions.
A reconciliation from operating Smaller tradesman market Kingfisher estimate for the UK profit before exceptional items is set out in the Financial smaller tradesman market is a weighted average incorporating Review pages 20 to 27.
70% trade using the most recent public data available for the big trade merchants as a proxy and 30% DIY using the UK FFVR financing fair value remeasurements represents RMI Repairs, Maintenance & Improvement GfK large chain changes in the fair value of financing derivatives, excluding shed data.
interest accruals, offset by fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and other hedged items under fair value TradePoint B&Q UK & Irelands trade-only offer.
UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix.
Kingfisher is included in two socially responsible indices, the This document is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
We also containing virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, achieved Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility responsible, FSC certified forests.
Index Platinum Big Tick in the 2013 survey.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental management System is certified to ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Kingfisher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
