Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS equity method of accounting and therefore this update has had no 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION impact on the financial position or results.
Ladbrokes plc the Company is a public limited company The Group has applied IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are The changes require management to exercise significant judgement publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of its to determine which entities are controlled see basis of consolidation registered office and principal place of business is disclosed in the for definition of control and therefore, are required to be consolidated corporate information section of the Annual Report.
by the parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its This change has had no impact on the financial position or results.
subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the 4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES directors on 25 February 2015.
Basis of consolidation The principal activities of the Group are described in note 5.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The underlying 2 BASIS OF PREPARATION financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been Control is achieved where the Company is exposed, or has rights, to prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting ability to affect these returns through its power over the investee.
Interpretations Committee IFRICs pronouncements as adopted for use in the European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Group financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the acquisition method of convention unless otherwise stated.
The statements are also accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the prepared on a going concern basis.
Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a currency.
All values are in millions m rounded to one decimal place subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any except where otherwise indicated.
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Where To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group has necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of defined the following items of pre-tax income and expense as subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those exceptional in nature: used by the Group.
profits or losses on disposal, closure or impairment of non-current Critical accounting estimates and judgements assets or businesses: The preparation of financial information requires the use of unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments: assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
corporate transaction costs: and Use of available information and application of judgement are changes in the fair value of contingent consideration inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the related tax effect of these items.
the accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are Any other non-recurring items are considered individually for those that relate to: the measurement and impairment of goodwill classification as exceptional by virtue of their nature and size.
and indefinite life intangible assets: the measurement and accounting for business combinations: the measurement of pension and other The separate disclosure of these items allows a clearer post-employment benefit obligations: the determination of the initial understanding of the trading performance on a consistent and fair value of betting and gaming transactions: the recoverable amount comparable basis, together with an understanding of the effect of trade receivables: income tax and the valuation of financial of non-recurring or large individual transactions upon the overall guarantee contracts.
The estimates and underlying assumptions profitability of the Group.
are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
The exceptional items have been included within the appropriate classifications in the consolidated income statement.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets From 1 January 2014 the Group has applied, for the first time, certain The Group has determined that betting shop licences have indefinite standards, interpretations and amendments.
These include IFRS 10 lives see note 13 for further details.
Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
The Group determines whether goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an The Group has applied IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in other estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which entities.
The disclosures relate to an entity's interests in subsidiaries, the goodwill and intangible assets are allocated.
Estimating a value joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
The Group in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the has included additional disclosures to reflect the requirements of the expected future cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to standard see notes 16 and 17. choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given in notes 13 and 14.
The Group has applied IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
This standard removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation.
The Group has historically used the 84 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Business combinations Investments in joint ventures The Group applies judgement in determining whether a transaction is A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a business combination, which includes consideration as to whether a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and the Group has acquired a business or a group of assets.
one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
For business combinations, the Group estimates the fair value of the Management has assessed whether it has joint control of the consideration transferred, which includes assumptions about the arrangement.
Joint control exists only when decisions about the future business performance of the business acquired and an relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that appropriate discount rate to determine the fair value of any collectively control the arrangement.
In assessing this joint control no contingent consideration.
Judgement is also applied in determining significant judgements have been necessary.
whether any future payments should be classified as contingent The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the consideration or as remuneration for future services.
Group consolidated income statement using the equity method of The Group then estimates the fair value of assets acquired and accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group liabilities assumed in the business combination, including any consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes separately identifiable intangible assets.
These estimates also require in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment inputs and assumptions including future earnings, customer attrition in value.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures includes rates and discount rates.
The Group engages external experts to acquired goodwill.
support the valuation process, where appropriate.
If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds The fair value of contingent consideration recognised in business its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise combinations is reassessed at each reporting date, using updated further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made inputs and assumptions based on the latest financial forecasts for payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Judgement is applied as to whether changes Investments in associates should be applied at the acquisition date or as post-acquisition Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term changes.
Further details of these judgements are given in note 33. interest and is able to exercise significant influence over the financial Fair value movements and the unwinding of the discounting is and operational policies but does not have control or joint control recognised within operating expenses.
Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Group The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postconsolidated income statement using the equity method of employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
Investments in associates are carried in the Group actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term value.
The carrying value of investments in associates includes nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant acquired goodwill.
Further details are given in note 29.
Goodwill Betting and gaming transactions Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess Betting and gaming transactions are measured at the fair value of the of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in consideration received or receivable from customers.
This is normally the net fair value of the separately identifiable assets, liabilities and the nominal amount of the consideration but on certain occasions, contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of the fair value is estimated using valuation techniques, taking into acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, account the credit profile of customers in determining the goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and collectability of the consideration.
In addition, where there are as such, is stated at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
indicators that any trade receivable is impaired at the balance sheet Any impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated date, management makes an estimate of the assets recoverable income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Further details are given in note 18. any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash generating units for the Income tax purpose of impairment testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions.
generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax that loss on disposal of the operation.
may be payable, and in respect of determining the level of the future taxable profits of the Group that support the recognition Intangible assets and recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Further details are given Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and in note 10. those acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on Provisions in relation to uncertain tax positions are established on an initial recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated intangible individual rather than portfolio basis, considering whether, in each assets, principally software costs, are capitalised if the criteria for circumstance, the Group considers it more likely than not that the recognition as assets are met.
Other expenditure is charged in the uncertainty will crystalise.
year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated Financial guarantee contracts amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the counterparties.
Further details are given in note 24.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 10 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be either Leases finite or indefinite.
Where amortisation is charged on assets with finite Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and lives, this expense is taken to the consolidated income statement benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item are capitalised through the depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off nonat the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, current assets line item.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges annually at the cash generating unit level.
are charged directly against income.
A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the as follows: estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Customer Domain Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and Licences Software relationships Brand names risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Useful lives indefinite finite finite finite finite Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are Method used not 3-5 1-15.5 3-10 10 years recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement depreciated years years years straight line or revalued straight line straight line straight line on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Internally acquired acquired acquired acquired acquired generated or and Recoverable amount of non-current assets acquired internally At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any generated indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of Impairment annually useful lives where an where an where an impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the testing recoverable and where reviewed at indicator of indicator of indicator of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds amount testing an indicator each impairment impairment impairment of financial exists exists exists its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is impairment year end written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is exists the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely loss arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in Property, plant and equipment hand, short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Buildings, plant months and customer balances, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight Financial assets line method to allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party over its useful economic life as follows: Buildings 50 years or to the contracts that give rise to them.
estimated useful life of the building, or lease, whichever is less, to The Group classifies financial assets at inception as loans and estimated residual value.
receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or Fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered available-for-sale financial assets.
appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
impairment annually as to whether there are events or changes On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value in circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not be net of transaction costs.
Subsequently, the fair values are measured recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, less any values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash allowance for impairment.
generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of fair The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, and where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate of the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present the assets recoverable amount.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to financial instruments.
Financial assets through profit or loss are the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent measured initially at fair value with transaction costs taken directly to cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash the consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are generating unit to which the asset belongs.
remeasured, and gains and losses are recognised in the Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income consolidated income statement.
statement in the depreciation and amounts written off non-current Available for sale financial assets comprise equity investments that assets line item.
are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair value An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon through profit or loss.
Available for sale financial assets are measured disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the and gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement item included in the consolidated income statement in the year of comprehensive income.
86 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Financial liabilities date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material Financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables, interest using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of bearing loans and borrowings, contingent consideration, ante-post the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The bets, guarantees and derivative financial instruments.
On initial unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance expense.
recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value plus Foreign currency translation transaction costs where they are not categorised as financial liabilities The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and the at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries are Pounds Sterling.
through profit or loss include contingent consideration, derivative financial instruments, ante-post bets and guarantees.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Trade and other payables are held at amortised cost and include Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies amounts due to clients representing customer deposits and are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of exchange ruling at the winnings, which is offset by an equal and opposite amount within balance sheet date.
cash and cash equivalents All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial are remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign recognised in the consolidated income statement.
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date when the All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair fair value was determined.
value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial The main functional currencies of overseas subsidiaries is the Euro recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently and the Australian Dollar $.
At the reporting date, the assets and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into Pounds The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties in Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date respect of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former and their income statements are translated at the average exchange subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee rates for the year.
The post-tax exchange differences arising on the contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are measured at fair retranslation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being called On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount upon and the related cash outflows from the Group.
recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign entity is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash Income tax flows from the assets has expired or when the Group has transferred Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the financial assets differences at the balance sheet date, between the tax bases of or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting without material delay to a third party, and either: purposes.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary transferred: or differences: substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial nor transferred but control is not retained.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and discharged, cancelled or expires.
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except Derivative financial instruments where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, not reverse in the foreseeable future.
to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary and subsequently at fair value.
The gains or losses on differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused remeasurement are taken to the consolidated income statement.
tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where their and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is negative.
can be utilised: Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible right of offset exists and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset a net basis.
or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit Provisions nor the tax profit: and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the deductible to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and amount of the obligation.
taxable profit will be available against which the temporary Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the differences can be utilised.
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 12 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each obligations have been met.
The related tax is accounted on an balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer income basis.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or Equity instruments part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the Treasury shares liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Interest or penalties payable and receivable in relation to income tax are recognised as an income tax expense or credit in the ESOP trusts consolidated income statement.
The impact of the change in the Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP trusts current year is described in note 10. these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration paid or received for the purchase or sale of these shares is shown in Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and no gain recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
or loss is recognised within the consolidated income statement or the statement of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue or Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of cancellation of these shares.
sales tax except: Dividends where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the have been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and Revenue The Group reports the gains and losses on all betting and gaming receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales activities as revenue, which is measured at the fair value of the tax included.
consideration received or receivable from customers less free bets, The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the promotions, bonuses and other fair value adjustments.
Gross win taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the includes free bets, promotions and bonuses, as well as VAT payable consolidated balance sheet.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Core Telephone The Groups defined benefit pension plan, the Ladbrokes Betting, mobile betting, High Rollers, Digital businesses including Pension Plan holds assets separately from the Group.
The sportsbook, betting exchange, casino, games, other number bets, pension cost relating to this plan is assessed in accordance with revenue represents gains and losses, being the amounts staked and the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected fees received, less total payouts and the fair value of reward points unit credit method.
issued from betting activity in the period.
Open betting positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on these positions Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated are recognised in revenue.
statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
When a bet is placed and reward points are issued under the Odds Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that On loyalty card scheme, the fair value of the reward points is deferred the benefits have already vested and otherwise is amortised on a and recorded as a liability.
The deferred revenue is recognised when straight line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
the reward points are used or when they expire.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of scheme assets less the value of the Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income defined benefit obligations as adjusted for unrecognised past rake earned from poker games completed by the period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to including sales of refreshments.
Finance expense and income In accounting for the Groups defined benefit pension plan, it is Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial necessary for management to make a number of estimates and instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the assumptions each year.
These include the discount rates, future consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate changes to salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that are expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial instrument, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such including issue costs, and the amortisation of any other differences as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, between the amount initially recognised and the redemption price.
actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Refer Net gains and losses in respect of mark-to-market adjustments on to note 29 for details of the values of assets and obligations and financial instruments carried at fair value, foreign exchange key assumptions used.
adjustments and net gains and losses on financial guarantees are Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised included in exceptional items in the consolidated income statement.
during the life of the plan to address member benefits, the Group Share-based payment transactions recognises its pension surplus in full on the basis that it does not Certain employees including directors of the Group receive consider there to be substantive restrictions on the return of residual remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member 88 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
or loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling.
There is now a new expected credit The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference to losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is used in IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to determined using a binomial model, further details of which are given classification and measurement except for the recognition of in note 30.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The standard price of the shares of Ladbrokes plc market conditions.
is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is yet to assess The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised together with IFRS 9s full impact.
a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful The cumulative expense recognised for equity settled transactions at information to users of financial statements about the nature, each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the from an entity's contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised opinion of the directors of the Group at that date, based on the best when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has available estimate of the number of equity instruments, will ultimately the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good vest.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market earlier adoption is permitted.
The Group is assessing the impact of condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not IFRS 15. the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Both IFRS 15 and 9 are yet to be EU endorsed.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not share dilution in the computation of earnings per share as shown yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact in note 12. on the Group.
The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee Comparative information share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to executives The 2013 consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement and senior employees.
of cash flows has been represented to present customer deposits gross between trade payables and cash 39.3 million.
Trade and Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as other payables due within one year now include amounts due to treasury shares and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction customers, representing deposits received.
This is a change in the from equity.
Refer to consolidated statement of changes in equity.
presentation on the balance sheet where previously the customer Future accounting developments deposits were netted off against customer liabilities.
The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet There has also been a representation of the comparative amounts effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial for deferred and corporation tax.
Deferred tax and corporation statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these tax are now shown net by jurisdiction in accordance with IAS 12. standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
None of these Deferred tax assets of 17.0 million have been shown net within is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial deferred tax liabilities in 2013.
Corporation tax assets 5.8 million statements of the Group, except the following set out below: have been presented gross in 2013.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, There is no impact on the financial position or the cash flow measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities was statement of the Group at 31 December 2014 and 2013 due to this issued in July 2014.
IFRS 9 retains and establishes three primary change in presentation.
measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L.
The basis of the classification depends on the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
Investments in equity 14 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of directors to make strategic decisions and allocate resources.
The performance of the Group is assessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources, and the Groups operating segments are aggregated into the five reportable segments detailed below: UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain.
European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Ireland Northern and Republic of, Belgium and Spain shop estates.
Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations which includes Ladbrokes Israel, Ladbrokes Australia and Betdaq.
Core Telephone Betting: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone, excluding High Rollers.
High Rollers: comprises activities primarily relating to bets taken on the telephone by High Rollers.
The Board continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, profit before tax and net finance expense.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of exceptional items from the operating segments.
Core UK European Telephone High Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2014 m m m m m m Segment revenue 811.5 122.1 215.1 10.2 15.7 1,174.6 Segment profit before exceptional items 119.3 13.0 14.0 2.0 14.2 162.5 Exceptional items 41.4 6.9 29.4 77.7 Segment profit loss 77.9 6.1 15.4 2.0 14.2 84.8 Corporate costs 18.6 Profit before tax and net finance expense 66.2 Net finance expense 28.5 Profit before tax 37.7 Income tax credit 3.3 Profit for the year 41.0 Other disclosures: 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates 1.2 0.1 1.7 0.4 1 Depreciation and amortisation 39.3 7.7 29.5 0.4 76.9 1 Capital expenditure 20.0 6.9 31.9 0.2 59.0 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.2 million profit, 0.8 million, and 0.7 million, respectively.
Core UK European Telephone High Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total 2013 m m m m m m Segment revenue 800.9 128.8 175.0 6.5 6.5 1,117.7 Segment profit loss before exceptional items 133.9 15.6 8.2 1.6 5.9 162.0 Exceptional items 23.2 1.9 26.8 48.1 Segment profit loss 110.7 17.5 18.6 1.6 5.9 113.9 Corporate costs 21.3 Profit before tax and net finance expense 92.6 Net finance expense 25.0 Profit before tax 67.6 Income tax expense 0.6 Profit for the year 67.0 Other disclosures: 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates 4.0 1.4 2.6 1 Depreciation and amortisation 35.6 7.3 21.0 0.5 64.4 1 Capital expenditure 53.8 8.9 39.0 101.7 1 Share of results from joint venture and associates, depreciation and amortisation and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 0.1 million loss, 0.4 million, and 1.7 million, respectively.
90 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Geographical information Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows: 2014 2013 Non-current Non-current 1 1 Revenue assets Revenue assets m m m m United Kingdom 998.3 785.8 957.2 875.5 Rest of the world 176.3 177.9 160.5 149.2 Total 1,174.6 963.7 1,117.7 1,024.7 1 Non-current assets excluding retirement benefit assets.
6 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 2014 2013 m m 1 Impairment loss 44.5 27.2 2 Loss on closure 30.7 5.4 3 Corporate transaction costs 0.5 2.9 4 Fair value adjustment to contingent consideration 3.1 1.7 5 Grey markets exit 3.8 6 Net pension curtailment gain 4.8 7 Profit on sale and leaseback 3.9 6.4 8 European indirect tax liability 5.7 Contract renewal fee 6.2 Business restructuring and integration costs 18.0 9 Exceptional interest 1.1 Total before tax 74.5 51.6 Exceptional tax credit 8.9 5.5 Exceptional items after taxation 65.6 46.1 I 1 Impairment loss of 44.5 million comprises a 18.7 million impairment of Retail shop licences, impairment of 2.1 million of shop assets and a 23.7 million asset impairment of which 23.1 million relates to software.
The total 20.8 million shop impairment has arisen as a result of the annual licence impairment review and includes a 17.7 million charge in UK Retail and a 3.1 million charge in European Retail Ireland.
The 23.7 million asset impairment is primarily as a result of a decision to decommission a platform for desktop sportsbook 23.0 million and other IT assets impaired within UK Retail 0.7 million as no longer in use.
2 The 30.7 million loss on closure includes a 26.9 million loss on closure of UK Retail shops and a 3.8 million loss on closure of European Retail shops.
These include a loss on disposal of intangible assets of 12.8 million, a loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 3.8 million and cost accruals of 14.1 million.
3 The Group incurred corporate transaction costs of 0.5 million in relation to the acquisition of Betstar Pty Ltd. 4 The fair value of the contingent consideration in respect of the business combinations with Playtech, Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd in Australia has been remeasured at 31 December 2014.
This resulted in a credit to the income statement of 3.1 million.
The net credit includes 3.1 million charge in respect of the contingent consideration for Gaming Investments Pty Ltd which was settled in the year for A$33.4 million 18.4 million.
5 The Group closed its online operations in a number of jurisdictions following a review of regulatory requirements of operating in those jurisdictions, incurring costs of 3.8 million.
These represent termination of contractual commitments in these jurisdictions.
6 The Group announced the closure of the defined benefit pension plan to future accruals from 31 August 2015.
This resulted in a one-off non cash curtailment gain of 7.1 million partly offset by 2.3 million of associated costs.
7 The Group realised a profit of 3.9 million on the sale and leaseback of shops within the UK Retail estate.
These assets had a net book value of 1.4 million.
8 The Group made a provision for a indirect tax liability arising from European market indirect tax changes.
9 During the period, the Group cancelled 135.0 million of committed loan facilities.
The arrangement fees associated with these facilities of 0.6 million have been charged to exceptional finance expense in the period.
In addition, the Group paid 0.5 million of interest to the HMRC in respect of the repayment of VAT in amusement machines.
Operating expenses include corporate transaction costs, the fair value adjustment to contingent consideration, the net pension curtailment gain, the provision for gaming European indirect tax liability and 14.1 million of costs relating to the shop closures.
In addition to the defined exceptional items set out in note 2 the Group considered the credits arising on the pension curtailment, profit on sale and leaseback, the charges in relation to grey markets exit, provision for European indirect tax liability and exceptional interest to be of sufficient materiality to be separately identified and of a nature unrelated to the underlying trading performance of the Group in the year.
The cash flow effect of the exceptional items was an outflow of 4.9 million in the year.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 16 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND NET FINANCE EXPENSE Profit before tax, net finance expense and exceptional items has been arrived at after charging: 2014 2013 m m Gross profits tax, Betting tax and Machine Games Duty 160.0 154.3 Point of consumption tax 2.1 Salaries and payroll-related expenses note 9 278.4 276.3 Property expenses 137.1 137.4 Content and levy expenses 125.7 111.1 Marketing expenses 82.4 69.2 Software and geographical partners 18.5 24.8 Other operating expenses 152.9 138.1 Operating expenses before depreciation and amortisation 957.1 911.2  LLP replaced Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups principal auditors on 7 May 2014 for the audit for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Fees payable to  LLP 2013: Ernst & Young LLP were as follows: 2014 2013 m m Audit and audit-related services: Audit of the parent Company and Group financial statements 0.3 0.3 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.6 0.7 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services Corporate finance services 0.1 Other non audit services 0.5 0.5 0.1 Total fees 1.1 0.8 There were non-audit fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in 2014 up to the date of cessation of auditors of 0.1 million.
There were non-audit fees payable to PwC up to the date of appointment of 0.1 million.
8 FINANCE EXPENSE AND INCOME 2014 2013 m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 3.3 3.6 1 Bonds at amortised cost 20.6 17.7 Fee expenses 3.6 3.7 Total finance expense 27.5 25.0 1 Interest receivable 0.1 Total finance income 0.1 Net finance expense before exceptional items 27.4 25.0 Exceptional finance expense 1.1 Net finance expense after exceptional items 28.5 25.0 1 Calculated using the effective interest rate method.
92 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 STAFF COSTS The average weekly number of employees including executive directors was: 2014 2013 Number Number UK Retail 11,823 12,213 European Retail 1,404 1,441 Digital 696 747 Telephone Betting 123 274 Central services 95 88 14,141 14,763 The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2014 was 13,954 2013: 14,459.
2014 2013 m m Wages and salaries 251.1 249.2 Social security costs 20.2 20.9 Pension costs note 29 4.3 4.2 Share-based payments note 30 2.8 2.0 278.4 276.3 In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Eligibility for benefits is normally determined primarily according to an employees length of service and level of responsibility.
The amounts of some benefits are proportionate to individual salary.
Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits.
The latter can cover private healthcare for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover.
Company cars, including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are: i Pensions Ladbrokes Pension Scheme LPS Under the auto-enrolment legislation, employees meeting the statutory eligibility requirements are automatically enrolled in the LPS, a defined contribution scheme.
The contributions paid by the Group and employees meet those statutorily required.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, employees can choose for the Group to match their contributions up to specified limits.
For the majority of employees the maximum match is 6% of broadly base salary.
The maximum match is higher for some employees, depending upon grade.
ii Ladbrokes Pension Plan LPP This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007.
Members contribute on average six per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit generally accrues to provide a target pension of half for joiners before June 2002: two thirds of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining age 65 with at least 40 years membership.
A spouses pension is payable following death.
See note 29 for further details.
LPP Executive Section Members contribute on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit accrues to provide a target pension from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years membership for joiners before June 2002, employees attaining age 60 with at least 20 years service.
A spouses and childrens pensions are payable following death.
LPP incorporates an Earnings Cap on Pensionable Salary.
Executive directors and senior executives, for whom this applies, have a choice between: i membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in excess of the Earnings Cap: or ii a cash supplement of up to 22.5 per cent of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
ii Share-based payments Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 69 that forms part of the Annual Report 2014.
Details of options granted in 2014 and outstanding at 31 December 2014 are shown in note 30.
Details of directors remuneration and the policies adopted in determining it can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 69.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93 18 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Analysis of charge for the year: 2014 2013 m m Current income tax: UK 8.7 16.1 overseas 2.2 2.4 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 13.4 15.9 Deferred tax: relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 3.8 3.7 tax rate reduction 6.5 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 3.0 0.8 Income tax credit expense reported in the income statement 3.3 0.6 Deferred tax credited charged directly to other comprehensive income 2.7 4.8 A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 is as follows: 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax 37.7 67.6 Corporation tax charge thereon at 21.5% 2013: 23.25% 8.1 15.7 Adjusted for the effects of: Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 0.7 0.6 Recognition of tax losses 10.4 3.5 Non-deductible expenses 3.6 3.3 Non-deductible expenses included in exceptional items 7.0 6.4 Tax rate reduction 6.5 1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 10.4 15.1 Other 0.5 0.9 Income tax credit expense 3.3 0.6 Reported as: expense in consolidated income statement before exceptional items 5.6 6.1 credit in consolidated income statement tax on exceptional items note 6 8.9 5.5 Income tax credit expense 3.3 0.6 1 The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2014 includes an adjustment in respect of prior periods which arises from settlement of prior year tax matters and the utilisation of previously unrecognised losses against profits of previous periods.
94 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated income balance sheet statement 2014 2013 2014 2013 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.3 0.4 0.1 Betting licences 61.1 56.2 4.9 10.0 Fair value adjustments on acquisitions 9.2 2.1 5.2 Retirement benefit asset 13.8 13.6 2.9 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 84.4 72.3 Deferred tax assets Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 3.7 3.7 2.7 Losses 13.6 13.6 3.9 Share-based payments 2.4 2.8 0.4 0.8 Other temporary differences 0.6 0.6 0.2 Deferred tax assets 20.3 17.0 Deferred tax charge 0.8 2.0 Net deferred tax liability 64.1 55.3 Deferred tax assets of 15.9 million are to be recovered after more than 12 months.
Deferred tax liabilities of 82.7 million are to be recovered after more than 12 months.
The Group has further tax losses at 31 December 2014 of 76.5 million 2013: 78.6 million that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is insufficient certainty that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of temporary differences may be deducted.
There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014.
This will be further reduced to 20% from April 2015.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20%.
The reduction to 20%, effective 1 April 2015, was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
Neither the deferred tax asset or liability is expected to crystallise within 12 months of the balance sheet date 11 DIVIDENDS 2014 2013 Pence per share pence pence Interim dividend paid 4.30 4.30 1 Final dividend proposed 4.60 4.60 8.90 8.90 1 A final dividend of 4.60 pence 2013: 4.60 pence per share, amounting to 42.1 million 2013: 42.0 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 was declared by the directors on 25 February 2015.
The total amount payable in respect of the final dividend is based on the expected number of shares in issue on 27 March 2015.
The 2014 interim dividend of 4.30 pence per share 39.4 million was paid on 13 November 2014.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 95 20 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company of 41.0 million 2013: 67.0 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 921.4 million 2013: 917.1 million.
1 At 31 December 2014, there were 922.9 million 28 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 954.6 million including 3 1 treasury shares.
At 31 December 2013, there were 919.4 million 28 3 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 951.2 million including treasury shares.
At 31 December 2014, 5.8 million 2013: 2.4 million shares were deemed anti-dilutive for the purpose of calculating adjusted earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before exceptional items is included as it provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Exceptional items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in note 6.
2014 2013 Profit from operations and Group m m Profit attributable to shareholders 41.0 67.0 Exceptional items net of tax note 6 65.6 46.1 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 106.6 113.1 Weighted average number of shares millions 2014 2013 Shares for basic earnings per share 921.4 917.1 Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 2.5 8.1 Shares for diluted earnings per share 923.9 925.2 Before exceptional items After exceptional items Earnings per share pence 2014 2013 2014 2013 Basic earnings per share 11.6 12.3 4.4 7.3 Diluted earnings per share 11.5 12.2 4.4 7.2 96 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer relationships, brand and Goodwill Licences Software domain names Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 49.8 531.0 148.3 40.5 769.6 Exchange adjustment 0.6 1.0 0.4 Additions 3.5 46.1 49.6 Additions from business combinations 89.4 5.2 1.7 9.5 105.8 Disposals 0.5 0.5 At 31 December 2013 138.6 540.2 196.1 50.0 924.9 Exchange adjustment 3.5 3.3 0.1 1.3 8.0 Additions 11.3 0.4 42.9 54.6 Additions from business combinations 8.0 4.6 12.6 Disposals 12.8 12.8 Reclassifications 4.8 4.8 At 31 December 2014 159.2 519.7 239.1 53.3 971.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 42.4 55.4 5.2 103.0 Exchange adjustment 0.3 0.2 0.1 Amortisation charge 20.1 3.8 23.9 Impairment charge 11.4 15.8 27.2 At 31 December 2013 54.1 91.1 9.0 154.2 Exchange adjustment 0.4 0.1 0.5 Amortisation charge 0.2 28.4 5.2 33.8 Impairment charge 18.7 23.1 41.8 At 31 December 2014 72.6 142.5 14.2 229.3 Net book value At 31 December 2013 138.6 486.1 105.0 41.0 770.7 At 31 December 2014 159.2 447.1 96.6 39.1 742.0 Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net assets of business combinations including the deferred tax liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions.
During the current year, goodwill has been recognised on the business combination of Betstar 8.0 million.
In the prior year, goodwill additions related to the following acquisitions: Playtech 34.9 million, Betdaq 31.5 million and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd 23.0 million.
Goodwill additions in the year relate to the recognition of a deferred tax liability on customer relationships relating to the acquisition of the Groups former partner in the Nordic region.
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
The acquired betting shop licences are not amortised as they are considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons: Ladbrokes is a leading operator in well-established markets: there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services: existing law acts to restrict entry: and Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software together with software acquired as part of business combinations.
The customer relationships intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisition of its former partner in the Nordic region, acquisitions in the prior year of Betdaq and Gaming Gaming Investments Pty and the current year acquisition of Betstar Pty.
Brand and domain names intangible assets relate to the Groups acquisitions in the prior year of Betdaq and Gaming Investments Pty Ltd and the current year acquisition of Betstar Pty.
Refer to notes 6 and 14 for details on the impairment charge.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 97 22 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL AND INDEFINITE LIFE INTANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the Group and any goodwill allocated to that Group would be regarded as not impaired.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Goodwill UK Retail 35.4 35.4 European Retail 12.7 12.7 Digital 111.1 90.5 159.2 138.6 No impairments were identified in both years.
Licences Licences have been allocated to the individual UK and European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets.
Each CGU represents the lowest level within the Group at which the licences are monitored for internal management purposes which in the majority of instances is an individual shop.
Where the cash flows of one or more shops are not entirely independent, these are grouped to form a CGU.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2014 was 447.1 million 2013: 486.1 million allocated as 284.5 million to UK Retail 2013: 311.7 million and 162.6 million to European Retail 2013: 174.4 million.
Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on budgets approved by management for the next three years extrapolated thereafter using a 1% growth rate 2013: 2.5%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions taken into account by management are the amounts staked, the gross win margin and the discount rate applied.
The estimated amounts staked and gross win margin are based upon historic experience, managements best estimate of future trends and performance taking account of industry sources.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections for CGUs in UK Retail is 10.8% 2013: 12.4%, in European Retail is between 9.4% and 10.4% 2013: between 9.6% and 9.9% and in Digital is 9.6% 2013: 11.0%.
The recoverable amounts of certain individual UK Retail CGUs were below their carrying amounts at 31 December 2014 and accordingly an impairment loss of 26.8 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014 2013: 13.7 million offset by impairment reversals of 9.1 million within the Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off non-current assets line as an exceptional item.
In respect of European Retail shop licences there has been a charge of 13.1 million at 31 December 2014 offset by impairment reversals of 10.0 million 2013: 2.3 million.
The recoverable amount of individual CGUs is sensitive to changes in cash flows or discount rate.
Change in the cash flow projections or the discount rate would trigger a further impairment loss.
For example, an increase of 0.5% in the pre-tax discount rate would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 7.9 million 2013: 2.5 million for UK Retail and 3.2 million 2013: 2.2 million for European Retail, or a reduction in projected cash flows of 5% would have resulted in an additional impairment loss of approximately 4 million 2013: 8.8 million for UK Retail and 3.3 million 2013: 10.1 million for European Retail.
An assumption of no growth after 2019 would have resulted in an increase in impairment loss of approximately 9.9 million for UK Retail and 4.8 million for European Retail.
For Digital, no reasonably possible change in key assumptions would result in an impairment.
98 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 139.6 408.9 548.5 Exchange adjustment 1.4 1.4 Additions 7.4 46.4 53.8 Additions from business combinations 0.3 0.3 Disposals 5.5 3.3 8.8 At 31 December 2013 141.5 453.7 595.2 Exchange adjustment 1.0 3.5 4.5 Additions 2.8 13.6 16.4 Disposals 6.1 9.9 16.0 Reclassifications 3.2 3.2 At 31 December 2014 140.4 450.7 591.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 80.0 253.7 333.7 Exchange adjustment 0.8 0.8 Depreciation charge 11.3 29.6 40.9 Disposals 2.0 2.7 4.7 At 31 December 2013 89.3 281.4 370.7 Exchange adjustment 0.5 2.3 2.8 Depreciation charge 12.0 31.9 43.9 Disposals 3.3 7.5 10.8 Impairment charge 1.0 1.7 2.7 At 31 December 2014 98.5 305.2 403.7 Net book value At 31 December 2013 52.2 172.3 224.5 At 31 December 2014 41.9 145.5 187.4 At 31 December 2014, the Group had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of any property, plant and equipment 2013: nil.
Included within fixtures, fittings and equipment are assets in the course of construction of 3.9 million 2013: 11.9 million.
This comprises mainly shop refurbishment programmes in the UK.
24 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 INTEREST IN JOINT VENTURE Share of joint ventures net assets m Cost At 1 January 2013 4.8 Additions 3.1 Share of loss after tax 1.4 At 31 December 2013 6.5 Exchange adjustment 0.1 Additions 4.1 Share of loss after tax 1.6 At 31 December 2014 9.1 The joint venture is the Groups investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA in which it holds a 50% equity interest note 32.
Summarised financial information in respect of the joint ventures net assets is set out below: 2014 2013 m m Non-current assets 24.4 18.2 Cash and cash equivalents 5.2 3.0 Other current assets 1.6 3.2 Current assets 6.8 6.2 Current financial liabilities Other current liabilities 12.8 11.4 Current liabilities 12.8 11.4 Non-current financial liabilities Other non-current liabilities 0.2 Non-current liabilities 0.2 Joint ventures net assets 18.2 13.0 Groups share of joint ventures net asset 50% 9.1 6.5 2014 2013 Summarised statement of comprehensive income m m Revenue 35.2 23.2 Depreciation and amortisation 3.8 3.4 Other operating expenses 36.0 24.6 Income tax expense 1.4 2.0 Loss for the year 3.2 2.8 Groups share of loss for the year 1.6 1.4 There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
100 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17 INTEREST IN ASSOCIATES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS Share of associates net Other assets investments Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 15.2 0.7 15.9 Share of profit after tax 3.9 3.9 Dividends received 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2013 16.8 0.7 17.5 Share of profit after tax 1.4 1.4 Additions 0.3 0.3 Dividends received 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2014 17.0 1.0 18.0 Associates Summarised financial information in respect of the associates is set out below: 2014 2013 m m Associates current assets 65.8 73.5 Associates non-current assets 77.7 116.3 Associates current liabilities 65.5 74.9 Associates non-current liabilities 5.3 42.6 Associates net assets 72.7 72.3 Groups share of associate net assets 17.0 16.5 2014 2013 m m Associates revenue for the year 234.4 247.9 Associates profit for the year 5.9 16.9 Associates other comprehensive income 0.3 Associates total comprehensive income 5.6 16.9 Groups share of associates total comprehensive income 1.4 3.9 Further details of the Groups principal associates are listed in note 32.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited SIS, an associate of the Group, is 31 March.
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2014.
SIS is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
Other investments Other investments of 1.0 million consist of investments in ordinary shares, which therefore have no fixed maturity rate or coupon rate.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 26 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2014 2013 m m Trade receivables 7.5 2.4 Other receivables 5.5 8.9 Prepayments 44.2 41.7 57.2 53.0 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers.
Impaired receivables, including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
At 31 December 2014, trade receivables with an initial fair value of 0.6 million 2013: 2.3 million were provided for in full.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 2.3 2.7 Utilised 1.7 0.4 At 31 December 0.6 2.3 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due 30 30-60 60-90 90 Total nor impaired days days days days m m m m m m 2014 7.5 2.7 2.2 0.4 0.2 2.0 2013 2.4 0.1 1.7 0.4 0.1 0.1 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2014 2013 m m Cash and short-term deposits 21.1 24.0 Customer funds 40.9 39.3 Bank overdraft 1.0 0.6 Total cash and cash equivalents 61.0 62.7 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or less, customer funds and overdrafts.
The customer funds are matched by liabilities of an equal value.
20 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2014 2013 m m Trade payables 52.7 61.8 Other payables 66.2 64.1 Other taxation and social security 12.6 10.2 Accruals 74.4 84.5 205.9 220.6 102 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 PROVISIONS Vacant property Other 1 provision provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2013 5.6 1.0 6.6 Provided 0.6 0.6 Utilised 2.5 0.3 2.8 Released 0.1 0.5 0.6 At 31 December 2013 3.6 0.2 3.8 Provided 9.7 0.2 9.9 Utilised 2.3 2.3 Released At 31 December 2014 11.0 0.4 11.4 1 The periods of vacant property commitments range from one to 12 years 2013: one to 12 years.
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2014, 6.4 million 2013: 1.3 million is current and 5.0 million 2013: 2.5 million is non-current.
22 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2014 2013 m m Non-current Bank facilities 117.0 199.0 7.625% bonds due 2017 223.6 223.0 5.125% bonds due 2022 98.7 439.3 422.0 Committed bank facilities which are denominated in pounds sterling mature between 2016 and 2019.
Drawings under these facilities had an average interest rate of 2.4% in 2014 2013: 2.1%.
23.0 million expires on 1 December 2016, 94.0 million expires on 13 June 2019.
The Group issued a 100.0 million retail eligible bond at par on 16 June 2014 that matures in September 2022.
The bond carries a coupon of 5.125%, paid semi annually in arrears, the first interest period being a short period to 16 September 2014.
Proceeds from the bond were used to pay down drawings under the bank facilities.
The Group also extended the maturity on 350.0 million of its committed bank facilities on 13 June 2014 to 13 June 2019 at floating interest rates.
At the same time 135.0 million of committed bank facilities were cancelled, leaving a total of 405.0 million of committed bank facilities.
As at 31 December 2014, the committed bank facilities maturities are 350.0 million 2013: nil on 13 June 2019 and 55.0 million 2013: 540.0 million on 1 December 2016.
The Group has undrawn committed bank facilities of 283.0 million at 31 December 2014 2013: 333.7 million.
The Group had nil 2013: 0.5 million overdraft denominated in Australian dollars and a 0.4 million 2013: 0.1 million overdraft denominated in Euros at 31 December 2014.
All of the Groups remaining borrowings in 2014 and 2013 were denominated in pounds sterling.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 103 28 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
At 31 December 2014 and at 31 December 2013 the Group had no significant derivatives.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions.
The Groups exposure to ante-post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2014 was to maintain a minimum of 25% 2013: 25% of total borrowings at fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2014, 322.3 million or 73.4% 2013: 223.0 million or 52.8% of the Groups gross borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is re-priced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity 2014 2013 2014 2013 Effect on: m m m m 100 basis points increase 0.1 0.2 200 basis points increase 0.2 The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
Foreign currency risk Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The total carrying value of the Groups foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2014 was 0.4 million 2013: 0.6 million.
This consisted of a nil 2013: 0.5 million overdraft denominated in Australian dollars and a 0.4 million 2013: 0.1 million overdraft denominated in Euros.
The Group had no other foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2014 2013: nil.
104 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTINUED Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
The Groups High Rollers division consists of individuals who place sizeable stakes.
The Group manages this activity and the associated risk exposure by utilising senior management expertise to manage the levels of stakes placed.
Of the 7.5 million 2013: 2.4 million trade receivables balance, 3.2 million 2013: 2.2 million relates to the Groups Core Telephone Betting and High Rollers divisions.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 24.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2014, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 283.0 million 2013: 333.7 million.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 4.1 years 2013: 2.9 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows.
Cash flows in respect of financial guarantee contracts reflect the probability weighted cash flows.
The maximum exposure is described in note 24.
On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2014 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 26.1 48.1 349.3 112.8 536.3 Other financial liabilities 4.1 11.2 46.5 8.7 70.5 Trade and other payables 205.5 205.5 Total 235.7 59.3 395.8 121.5 812.3 On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2013 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22.2 21.6 448.2 492.0 Other financial liabilities 4.4 0.7 104.5 10.2 119.8 Trade and other payables 220.2 220.2 Total 246.8 22.3 552.7 10.2 832.0 Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit quality that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio before exceptional items.
The target range is less than 2.0 2013: less than 2.0 times net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The ratio at 31 December 2014 was 1.9 2.1 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers and at 31 December 2013 was 1.9 2.0 adjusted to remove profit from High Rollers.
The Groups funding policy is to raise funds centrally to meet the Groups anticipated requirements.
These are planned so as to mature at different stages in order to reduce refinancing risk.
The Board reviews the Groups capital structure and liquidity periodically.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 105 30 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES Other financial liabilities 2014 2013 m m Contingent consideration 32.1 53.6 Financial guarantee contracts 4.8 5.0 Deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued 1.1 1.5 Other financial liabilities 5.6 3.3 43.6 63.4 Of the total other financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 1.1 million 2013: 1.5 million is current and 42.5 million 2013: 61.9 million is non-current.
The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments into their relevant categories: Assets liabilities Available Loans at at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through financial receivables cost profit or loss assets Total 31 December 2014 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 1.4 3.4 4.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 13.0 13.0 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 62.0 62.0 Total 76.4 3.4 79.8 Liabilities Current: Bank overdraft 1.0 1.0 Trade and other payables 200.2 5.3 205.5 Other financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 439.3 439.3 Other financial liabilities 5.6 36.9 42.5 Total 646.1 43.3 689.4 Net financial assets liabilities 76.4 646.1 43.3 3.4 609.6 106 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Assets liabilities at Available Loans at fair value for sale Loans and amortised through profit financial receivables cost or loss assets Total 31 December 2013 m m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 0.1 3.4 3.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 11.3 11.3 Cash and short-term deposits including customer funds 63.3 63.3 Total 74.7 3.4 78.1 Liabilities Current: Bank overdraft 0.6 0.6 Trade and other payables 214.3 5.9 220.2 Other financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 422.0 422.0 Other financial liabilities 3.3 58.6 61.9 Total 640.2 66.0 706.2 Net financial assets liabilities 74.7 640.2 66.0 3.4 628.1 Fair value of financial instruments Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss and available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value.
The fair value of cash at bank and in hand approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity.
The fair value of the 225 million 7.625% bond at 31 December 2014 was 244.3 million 2013: 252.9 million and is classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The fair value of the 100 million 5.125% bond at 31 December 2014 was 100.2 million and is classified as a level 1 fair value measurement for disclosure purposes, as the fair value is determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical liabilities.
The amortised cost of interest bearing loans and borrowings, with the exception of the 225 million 7.625% bond and the 100 million 5.125% bond, and the carrying value of all other assets and liabilities approximates to fair value.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value after initial recognition at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013: 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante-post liabilities 5.3 5.3 Other current financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Other non-current financial liabilities 36.9 36.9 Total 43.3 43.3 Net liabilities measured at fair value 39.9 39.9 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 107 32 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES CONTINUED 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Assets measured at fair value Other financial assets 3.4 3.4 Liabilities measured at fair value Ante post liabilities 5.9 5.9 Other current financial liabilities 1.5 1.5 Other non-current financial liabilities 58.6 58.6 Total 66.0 66.0 Net liabilities measured at fair value 62.6 62.6 Included within other financial assets is the Groups investment in TBHG, a financial asset measured at initial fair value of 3.4 million on 28 February 2013 which was acquired in connection with the business combination with Betdaq.
There have been no changes in the fair value of the investment at 31 December 2014.
Included in trade and other payables are 5.3 million of ante-post liabilities 2013: 5.9 million.
Ante post liabilities are valued using methods and inputs that are not based upon observable market data.
There are no reasonably probable changes to assumptions or inputs that would lead to material changes in the fair value determined, although the final value will be determined by future sporting results.
The principal assumptions relate to anticipated gross win margins on unsettled bets.
Other current financial liabilities are deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued.
Included within other non-current financial liabilities is contingent consideration associated with business combinations of 32.1 million 2013: 53.6 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments, as its fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
The fair values are remeasured at each reporting date and gains and losses from changes therein are recorded in the consolidated income statement within exceptional items note 6.
Betdaq Betdaq contingent consideration is linked to the performance of the business over a four year period and is capped at 535.0 million.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the balance sheet date.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are the EBITDA projections of the Betdaq business for 2016, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2016 7.6x and the discount rate applied 15%.
All of these assumptions have been applied on a probability-weighted basis.
The contingent consideration is sensitive to changes in these assumptions.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 1.4 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 0.1 million.
A decrease in the EBITDA multiple of 2x would result in a decrease in contingent consideration of 0.7 million.
Playtech The fair value of the contingent consideration in relation to Playtech has been estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis at the balance sheet date.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are a range of EBITDA projections of the Digital business for 2017, which are based on the projections in place at the time of the acquisition and then updated with an estimated uplift for the benefits of the transaction, the predicted Ladbrokes plc EBITDA multiple in 2017 7.6x : and the discount rate applied a range of 13.6% to 26.6%, depending on the year.
For example, an increase of 10% in EBITDA projections would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 10.4 million and a decrease of 2% in the discount rate would result in an increase in contingent consideration of 1.7 million.
An increase of 1x in the EBITDA multiple would increase the contingent consideration by 4.2 million.
Gaming Investments Pty On 28 October 2014, Ladbrokes agreed an early settlement of the Gaming Investments Pty Ltd total contingent consideration for A$33.4 million 18.4 million in cash.
This compares to a recorded contingent consideration of A$28.3 million 15.2 million at 31 December 2013.
Ladbrokes had acquired Gaming Investments Pty Ltd in September 2013 for A$23.9 million 13.9 million plus the contingent consideration, now settled, of up to a cap of A$125.0 million undiscounted estimate at date of acquisition.
Other Also included within other non-current financial liabilities are financial guarantee contracts of 4.8 million 2013: 5.0 million, classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
33 108 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES CONTINUED The intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Betstar were measured at fair value on acquisition as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
However, these have not been included in the table above as they are not remeasured at fair value after initial recognition.
A description of the valuation techniques, significant inputs and assumptions is described in note 33.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC, at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees.
The guarantees expire between 2017 and 2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements.
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all years up to 2042 is 679.6 million 2013: 707.6 million, with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount.
Included in the maximum liability exposure is 434.8 million 2013: 449.5 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 244.8 million 2013: 258.1 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The maximum liability represents the total of all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2014 is 258.7 million 2013: 303.9 million.
Included in the net present value of the maximum exposure is 149.1 million 2013: 175.5 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 109.6 million 2013: 128.4 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants being identified.
At 31 December 2014 the Group has recognised a financial liability of 4.8 million 2013: 5.0 million in respect of these guarantees.
In addition to the passage of time, the liability has reduced in 2014 due to a number of factors.
The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate.
The default rate has been reduced as the remaining hotels under guarantee are considered to be in prime locations and furthermore have not suffered financially through the recent UK and European recession.
The 0.2 million credit arising as a result of these factors has been included within the Groups corporate costs.
The table below provides a breakdown of the movement in the liability since 1 January 2014: Liability m At 1 January 2014 5.0 Reduction due to passage of time and a change in discount rate 0.2 At 31 December 2014 4.8 A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by 1.4 million.
A 1.0 percentage point increase in the discount rate would reduce the financial liability by 0.4 million.
25 NET DEBT The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 2014 2013 Notes m m Current assets 1 Cash and short-term deposits 19 21.1 24.0 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 19 1.0 0.6 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 22 439.3 422.0 Net debt 419.2 398.6 1 Customer funds are not included in the Groups net debt.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 109 34 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 SHARE CAPITAL Number of 28p ordinary shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 2013 940,430,627 266.4 During the year 10,734,594 3.1 At 31 December 2013 951,165,221 269.5 1 During the year 3,460,108 1.0 At 31 December 2014 954,625,329 270.5 1 During the year, the following fully paid shares of 28 pence each were issued: 1,252,854 shares on allocation of shares under the Performance Share Plan, 1,555,009 shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, 481,638 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, and 170,607 shares under the OWN Plan.
Number of 28p ordinary shares Shares issued at 31 December 2013 951,165,221 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2013 excluding treasury shares 919,404,653 Shares issued at 31 December 2014 954,625,329 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2014 excluding treasury shares 922,864,761 27 EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS The Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust LSOT is used in connection with the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Performance Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan together the Plans refer to note 30 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions.
The LSOT may also be used in connection with the Groups other share-based plans, including the 1978 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme.
The trustee of the LSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, subscribes for the Groups shares or purchases them in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by the Group.
The Ladbrokes Share Incentive Plan LSIP is currently used in connection with the Groups OWN share plan the OWN plan and Freeshare share plan Freeshare refer to note 30 for further details.
The trustee of the LSIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using: i deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan: and ii dividends paid on the shares held by the LSIP.
Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Group to the LSIP for every two held per employee.
All expenses of the LSOT and LSIP are settled directly by the Group and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated movement in shareholders funds.
LSOT LSIP Total Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of held shares held shares held shares Number m Number m Number m 1 At 1 January 2014 8,052,376 11.0 815,778 0.4 8,868,154 11.4 Shares purchased allotted 321,626 0.5 359,094 0.2 680,720 0.7 Vested in year 712,950 1.1 309,729 0.2 1,022,679 1.3 At 31 December 2014 7,661,052 10.4 865,143 0.4 8,526,195 10.8 Market value of shares in trusts 8.5 1.5 10.0 1 Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Group in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees CI Limited under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan.
110 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Reconciliation of profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2014 2013 m m Profit before tax and net finance expense 66.2 92.6 Adjustments for: Non cash exceptional items 65.4 33.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 43.9 40.9 Amortisation of intangible assets 33.8 23.9 Share based payments charge 2.8 2.0 Increase decrease in other financial assets 1.3 1.4 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 3.7 25.0 Decrease in other financial liabilities 11.3 1.0 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 27.9 20.0 Decrease in provisions 2.9 Contributions to retirement benefit scheme 8.9 9.5 Share of results from joint venture 1.6 1.4 Share of results from associates 1.4 3.9 Other items 0.2 Cash generated by operations 159.0 223.8 Income taxes paid 2.1 2.9 Finance expense paid 26.4 23.5 Net cash generated from operating activities 130.5 197.4 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 111 36 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES Defined contribution schemes The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement of 3.1 million 2013: 2.2 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Defined benefit plans The Groups only significant defined benefit retirement plan is the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, which is a final salary pension plan for UK employees.
This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007 and it has been agreed with the Members and Trustees, after completing appropriate constitution, that the scheme will close to the future accrual from 31 August 2015.
At retirement each members pension is related to their pensionable service and final pensionable salary.
The weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Plan is around 16 years.
The Plans assets are held separately from those of the Group.
The Plan is approved by HMRC for tax purposes, and is managed by an independent set of Trustees.
The Plan is subject to UK regulations, which require the Group and Trustees to agree a funding strategy and contribution schedule at least every three years.
Under the current contribution schedule in place, the Group pays contributions to the Plan of 22.2% of Pensionable salary roll in relation to the future accrual of benefits plus 0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan plus 5.3 million each year until 30 April 2019.
The contribution schedule has yet to be revised.
Under this the Group will pay contributions to the Plan of 27.1% of Pensionable salary roll in relation to the future accrual of benefits until the closure of the Plan on 31 August 2015.
Additionally the Group will pay 0.75 million each year to cover the expenses of running the Plan plus 0.125 million each month from April 2016 to June 2017.
There is a risk to the Group that adverse experience could lead to a requirement for the Group to make additional contributions to recover any deficit that arises.
The results of the formal actuarial valuation as at 30 June 2013 were updated to 31 December 2014 by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits.
The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19 Revised.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.
The Plan is due to close to accrual on 31 August 2015.
Members were informed of this change in December 2014, following a consultation exercise and as such the impact of this change has been recognised within the 2014 income statement, resulting in a gain of 7.1 million.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Present value of funded obligations 296.3 268.8 Fair value of plan assets 365.8 321.9 Net asset 69.5 53.1 Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 69.5 53.1 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs Current service cost excluding employee element 2.8 3.0 Administrative expenses 1.0 0.9 Net interest on net asset 2.6 1.9 1 Pension curtailment gain 7.1 Total credit expense recognised in the income statement in staff costs 5.9 2.0 1 The pension curtailment gain has been included within exceptional items in the income statement.
Excluding this, the total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit plan is 1.2 million.
The actual return on plan assets over the year was a gain of 48.2 million 2013: gain of 22.8 million.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Actual return on assets less interest on plan assets 33.8 9.3 Actuarial losses on defined benefit obligation due to changes in financial assumptions 30.6 8.7 Changes in demographic assumptions 3.9 Experience adjustments on benefit obligation 2.3 8.5 Actuarial gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 1.6 9.1 112 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 268.8 264.3 Current service cost excluding employee element 2.8 3.0 Employee contributions 0.7 0.9 Interest on obligation 11.8 11.6 Actuarial gains losses due to changes in financial assumptions 30.6 8.7 Changes in demographic assumptions 3.9 Experience adjustments on obligations 2.3 8.5 Benefits paid 12.7 11.2 Pension curtailment gain 7.3 At 31 December 296.3 268.8 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 m m At 1 January 321.9 300.8 Interest on plan assets 14.4 13.5 Administration expenses 1.0 0.9 Actual return less interest on plan assets 33.8 9.3 Contributions by the sponsoring companies 8.9 9.5 Employee contributions 0.7 0.9 Benefits paid 12.7 11.2 Running costs relating to pension scheme curtailment 0.2 At 31 December 365.8 321.9 The Group expects to contribute 3.7 million to its defined benefit plan in 2015.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2014 2013 % % Equities and Diversified Growth Funds 62 42 LDI % 24 Cash 14 Government bonds 38 Corporate bonds 20 100 100 The Plan assets are held exclusively within instruments with quoted market prices in an active market with the exception of the holdings in an insurance policy.
At 31 December 2014 these represented circa 0.2% of the Plans total assets.
The Plan does not invest directly in property occupied by the Group or in financial securities issued by the Group.
Although, as the Plan holds pooled investment vehicles, there may at times be indirect employer related investment.
At 31 December 2014 these represented less than 0.1% of the Plans total assets.
The investment strategy is set by the Trustees of the Plan in consultation with the Group.
The current long-term strategy is to invest in a matching portfolio sufficient to meet the next 16 years of cash flows with the remaining assets invested in return seeking funds.
Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages where appropriate : 2014% 2013% pa pa Discount rate 3.5 4.5 Price inflation CPI RPI 2.0 3.0 2.4 3.4 Future salary growth 3% pa in 2015 3% pa in 2014 and 2015 and 4.15% pa thereafter, plus a promotional salary scale Future pension increases LPI 5% CPI 2.1 2.4 LPI 3% RPI 2.3 2.6 LPI 2.5% CPI 1.7 2.0 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 113 38 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES CONTINUED The post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2012 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected lifetime of members aged 65 in 2014 is 86.9 2013: 86.9 years for males and 89.1 2013: 88.5 years for females.
For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed 90.1 2013: 90.2 for males and 91.1 2013: 90.5 for females.
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement in respect of the plan.
For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact on the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2014: 2014 2013 % % 0.5% pa decrease in the discount rate 8.3 8.3 0.5% pa increase in price inflation 5.2 5.0 One year increase in life expectancy 2.4 2.4 These sensitivities have been calculated to show the movement in the defined benefit obligation in isolation, and assuming no other changes in market conditions at the accounting date.
This is unlikely in practice, for example, a change in discount rate is unlikely to occur without any movement in the value of the assets held by the Plan.
30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Restricted Share Plan: the Deferred Bonus Plan: the Performance Share Plan: the Ladbrokes Growth Plan: the 2010 Share Award Plan: the International Share Option Scheme: the 1978 Share Option Scheme: Sharesave: the OWN Plan: and Freeshare.
The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in more detail below: i Restricted Share Plan Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan will vest after three years and are not subject to performance conditions.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years.
For other employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
iii Performance Share Plan An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period.
The awards have two separate performance conditions: half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
iv Ladbrokes Growth Plan Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period.
Up to one third of the award may vest at the end of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets have been met at that time.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
v 2010 Share Award Plan An award under the 2010 Share Award Plan consists of a one-off compensatory share award to the Chief Executive in the form of a nil cost option.
The award is not subject to performance conditions and is exercisable after three years from grant.
vi International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period.
Vested options lapse if they have not been exercised within 10 years of the date of grant.
All options have an EPS growth based performance condition.
Options have not been granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
vii 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value.
The scheme operates with a savings period of either three or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
viii OWN Plan Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to 75 per month to acquire shares.
For every one share purchased, the Group provides a match of one additional share.
ix Freeshare Under Freeshare, an award of up to 250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one years service.
Freeshares have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
114 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED The following table sets out the number of share awards outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Ladbrokes Growth Plan and 2010 Share Award Plan.
Restricted Share Deferred Bonus Performance Share Ladbrokes Growth 2010 Share Award Plan Plan Plan Plan Plan Total Outstanding at 1 January 2014 1,312,242 1,535,683 12,356,296 13,525,390 1,177,103 29,906,714 Granted 751,690 6,826,422 7,578,112 Dividend equivalent awards 500,316 500,316 Lapsed 64,591 20,881 3,815,866 1,033,565 4,934,903 Vested Exercised 96,517 558,736 1,252,854 1,555,009 3,463,116 Outstanding at 31 December 2014 1,902,824 956,066 14,113,998 11,437,132 1,177,103 29,587,123 Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan: 2014 2013 Number 6,826,422 3,813,336 Weighted average fair value 0.93 1.64 The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date and the vesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a Monte Carlo simulation.
The total value of these shares is 10.2 million 2013: 7.0 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 1.35 2013: 2.15.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 33.0 pence 2013: 36.0 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2014 is between two and three years 2013: between one and three years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 1.10 3.60 2013: 1.10 3.60.
At 31 December 2014, there were 3,994,227 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 589,271 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,190,863 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
At 31 December 2013, there were 3,493,368 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 884,160 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,252,403 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
The key inputs into the valuation models were as follows: 2014 2013 Weighted average share price 1.35 2.15 Weighted average exercise price 1.17 1.63 Expected volatility % 32.0 27.0 Expected life years 2.10 2.13 Risk free rate % 1.10 0.40 Expected dividends % 5.9 4.6 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses before tax of 2.8 million 2013: 2.0 million relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 115 40 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings.
The terms of the leases vary significantly but can broadly be summarised as follows: Lease terms Shop leases are typically agreed on five year exit cycles either expiry or break, with a maximum term length of 15 years.
Some leases are shorter in duration or with earlier exits, to reflect our assessment of risk.
Determination of rent payments Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor at market rates.
Restrictions There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing lease arrangements.
Subleases The Group does sublease areas of leased properties and receives sublease payments from third parties.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year: 2014 2013 m m Minimum lease payments 68.3 67.8 Analysis of minimum lease payments by division: 2014 2013 m m UK Retail 57.4 57.1 European Retail 9.8 10.1 Digital 1.1 0.6 Total 68.3 67.8 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 64.9 62.3 After one year but not more than five years 168.7 167.8 After five years 88.8 94.3 Total 322.4 324.4 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining lease terms of between one and nine years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the year: 2014 2013 m m Minimum lease receipts 2.4 2.1 116 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Future minimum annual rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2014 2013 m m Within one year 0.6 0.5 After one year but not more than five years 0.9 0.9 After five years 0.4 0.6 1.9 2.0 Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 442.0 million 2013: 424.0 million.
There have been no loan guarantees given by subsidiaries in the normal course of business to other subsidiary companies 2013: nil.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries and the joint venture with a value of 8.5 million 2013: 13.9 million.
32 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries.
The companies listed below are those which were part of the Group at 31 December 2014 and which, in the opinion of the directors principally affected the Groups reported results for the year: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Betting and Gaming Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Leisure Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes International plc Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 1 Tierc Ladbroke SA Belgium 100.0 100.0 1 Ladbrokes Israel Limited Israel 100.0 100.0 Central services 1 Ladbrokes Group Finance plc United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 Directly owned by Ladbrokes plc.
Providing a full list of related undertakings in this note would lead to a disclosure of excessive length.
In accordance with Section 410 3 of the Companies Act 2006, a full list of the subsidiary and other related undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of Ladbrokes PLC to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements: Birchgree Limited Ladbroke Course Limited Ladbroke Dormant Holding Company Limited Ladbroke Entertainments Limited Ladbrokes Group Holdings Limited Ladbrokes Investments Holdings Limited Ladbroke Racing Reading Limited Ladbroke Racing South East Limited Ladbroke Racing Yorkshire Limited Maple Court Investments Limited Westbury Racing Limited Ladbrokes Contact Centre Limited Ladbroke Group Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 42 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED The following table provides details of the Groups joint venture: % equity interest Principal Place of business Country of incorporation 2014 2013 Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA Spain Spain 50.0 50.0 The following table provides details of the Groups associates: % equity interest Principal Place of business Country of incorporation 2014 2012 Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited United Kingdom United Kingdom 23.4 23.4 Asia Gaming Technologies Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 49.0 49.0 Other than its associates and joint venture, the related parties of the Group are the executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2014 2013 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 4.1 3.1 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 1.6 1.5 Movement in loan balance with joint venture 0.1 Dividends received 2 Associates 1.2 2.3 Sundry expenditure 3 Associates 51.0 44.3 1 Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
2 Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
3 Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Details of related party outstanding balances 2014 2013 m m Loan balances outstanding Joint venture partner 1.6 Joint venture 0.5 0.5 Other receivables outstanding Associates 1.4 1.8 Joint venture 1.2 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to, and purchases from, related parties are made at market prices and in the ordinary course of business.
Outstanding balances at 31 December 2014 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group has not raised any provision 2013: nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been good.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
118 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The remuneration of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled 1.8 million 2013: 7.3 million, is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 69.
2014 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.1 4.6 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Termination benefits 0.2 0.3 Share-based payments 2.4 3.2 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 6.2 8.5 Directors interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
33 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Betstar Pty Ltd On 14 April 2014, the Group acquired 100% of the business and assets of Betstar Pty Ltd, an online sports betting business based in Australia with a view to build the Groups presence in Australia.
This acquisition was for total cash consideration of AUD 21.4 million 12.1 million.
The Group has performed an assessment of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the business combination, as follows: m Net assets acquired: Intangible asset brand name 1.4 Intangible asset customer relationships 3.2 Tangible assets fixtures and fittings 0.1 Trade and other receivables 0.8 Trade and other payables 1.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 Deferred tax liabilities on fair value adjustments 1.4 Identifiable net assets 4.1 Goodwill 8.0 12.1 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 12.1 Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 1.7 Net cash flow on acquisition 10.4 The fair value of the brand name has been estimated based on the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning the brand over an estimated useful life of ten years.
The key assumption in estimating the fair value is a royalty rate of 1%.
The customer relationships were valued using the income approach method based on a three-year average life for the customer base.
The key assumptions in estimating the fair value are future revenue and customer churn.
Any reasonable change in these assumptions would not result in a material change to the fair value.
The goodwill of 8.0 million, which includes 1.4 million arising as a result of deferred tax on fair value adjustments, arises primarily from the synergies resulting from the business combination.
None of this goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Since the date of acquisition, the Betstar business has contributed 3.5 million of revenue and an operating profit of 0.9 million.
Had Betstar been included for the period from 1 January 2014, the impact would not have been material to these financial statements.
Transaction related costs of 0.5 million have been charged to exceptional items in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2014.
