58 GLOSSARY GLOSSARY ABB Net Revenue Association of British Bookmakers.
Gross win less fair value adjustments, e. g. fair value of reward points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate income.
Average Monthly Active Player Days The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number Odds On of days they have played during the period.
Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point for every amount staked Over the Counter.
These points are then Bet in Play accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, odds Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes enhancements or win bonuses.
Operating profit Category B2 gaming machine Profit before net finance expense, tax and exceptional items.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize of 500.
Category B3 gaming machine Gaming machine with maximum stake of 2 and maximum prize Real Money Sign-up of 500.
A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by shared EBITDA wallets, customers are categorised between lines of business Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
according to where they first register on the gaming site.
Gambling Act Responsible Gambling Trust The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing A charity that funds treatment, education and research related to gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare SIS Satellite Information Services A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television gambling related problems.
programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission SSBTs regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also Self Service Betting Terminals.
responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
Unique Active Player A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the Gaming Machines period.
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 Gambling Yield per Unique Active Player Act.
Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Players in the period.
Gross Win Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission, i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
MGD Machine Games Duty MGD is charged at 20% of the gross profit generated from machine games.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Ladbrokes PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
