Laird PLC 170 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Glossary AI LTE Artificial Intelligence Long term evolution AM FM M2M Amplitude Frequency Modulation Machine-to-machine CAGR OEM Compound annual growth rate Original Equipment Manufacturer CIP OHSAS Continuous Improvement Process Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services CO RAMP 2 Carbon dioxide Range Amplified Multipoint CSR R&D Corporate Social Responsibility Research and Development DAB REACH Digital Audio Broadcasting Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction ofChemical substances DTRs RF Disclosure and Transparency Rules Radio Frequency EHS RGG Environmental Health and Safety Risk and Governance Group EICC RoHS Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Restriction of Hazardous Substances EMI SIP Electromagnetic Interference Signal Integrity Products EU TIMS European Union Thermal Interface Materials GHG UL Greenhouse gas Underwriters Laboratories GPS WACS Global Positioning System Wireless Automation and Control Solutions IEC WI-FI Internationall Electrochemical Commission Wireless Fidelity IT WLAN Information Technology Wireless Local Area Network sometimes also Wi-Fi ISO REACH International Organisation for Standardisation Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction KPI ofChemical substances Key Performance Indicator 4G 5G LED Fourth Fifth Generation of Mobile Light-emitting diode telecommunications technology LISTING RULES The Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, as issued by the Financial Conduct Authority Cautionary statement This Annual Report and Accounts is intended to focus on matters which are relevant to the interests of shareholders of the Company.
The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to assist shareholders in assessing the strategies adopted and performance delivered by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements are made in good faith, based on a number of assumptions concerning future events and information available to Directors at the time of their approval of this report.
These forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
The user of this Annual Report and Accounts should not rely unduly on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of performance and which are subject to a number of uncertainties and other facts, many of which are outside the Companys control and could cause actual events to differ materially from those in these statements.
No guarantee can be given of future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Lumi Silk is produced at a mill that is certified with the ISO14001 environmental management standard.
The mill is certified to the EMAS environmental management standard No FIN-000021.
Lumi Silk is a FSC mixed sources paper from responsible sources.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar www.
com Laird PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 Find out more www.
com for up-to-date investor information and download ourinvestor relations application.
com @ SW1Y 5NQ Email investors : ir laird-plc.
