01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2014 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 November 2014.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The debt facilities currently available to the Group are summarised as follows: Revolving Credit Facility of $400 million at a Lonmin Plc level: and Three bilateral facilities of R660 million each at a Western Platinum Limited WPL level.
This capital structure places the Group in a strong position to ride the normal working capital cycles while providing a buffer to withstand the effects of operational shocks that the business may face.
One such operational shock manifested in 2014 in the form of AMCUs protected strike action in the South African Platinum sector which commenced on 23 January 2014.
The strike had a significant financial impact as fixed production overheads continued to be incurred with no associated production output.
The strike ended after five months with the signing of a three year wage agreement to 30 June 2016.
One of the key terms of the agreement was that the employees would not strike over wage negotiations for those three years.
On 24 June 2014 an agreement was reached for a return to work and 85% of our striking employees returned to work on 25 June 2014 and the safe ramp up of operations exceeded expectations and industry peers.
The business was back up to full production during August with tonnes mined in August and September 2014 exceeding August and September 2013.
The capital structure referred to above allowed the business to absorb the financial impact of the strike.
This combined with the successful ramp up of the business has seen the Group end the year in a net debt position of just $29 million at 30 September 2014.
The financial performance of the Group is also dependent upon the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
Factors exist which are outside the control of management which can have a significant impact on the business, specifically, volatility in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices.
In assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for a period in excess of 12 months.
Various scenarios have been considered to test the Groups resilience against operational risks including: Adverse movements in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices or a combination thereof.
Failure to meet forecast production targets.
The Directors have concluded that the Groups capital structure provides sufficient head room to cushion against downside operational risks and minimises the risk of breaching debt covenants.
As a result, the Directors believe that the Group will continue to meet its obligations as they fall due and comply with its financial covenants and accordingly have formed a judgement that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Therefore, these financial statements do not include any adjustments that would result if the going concern basis on preparation is inappropriate.
com Lonmin Plc 126 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest million, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Judgements that have been made in the process of applying accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, and estimates made that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are as follows: Impairment of non-financial assets In determining the recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, judgement is required in determining key inputs into valuation models.
The key assumptions, and the Directors approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment Non-financial assets.
Recoverability of the HDSA receivable The Company holds a HDSA receivable at amortised cost.
The receivable is secured on shares in the HDSA borrower, whose only asset of value is its holding in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Incwalas principal assets are investments in Western Platinum Limited WPL, Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Akanani Mining Pty Limited Akanani, all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc.
One of the sources of income to fund the settlement of the receivable is the dividend flow from these underlying investments.
Given the current state of the PGM industry there have not been any substantial dividend payments to Incwala in recent times.
The Directors are also concerned that, in the current economic environment, the value of the security may have fallen below the carrying amount of the receivable.
There is therefore a risk that the amount outstanding will not be repaid in 2015.
As described in the policy on Impairment financial assets, an assessment is made at each reporting period to determine whether there is objective evidence that the receivable is impaired.
This assessment for indicators of a loss event, involves a high degree of judgement.
Given the above matters, the Directors have determined that it is likely that a loss event may have occurred.
Accordingly an assessment has been performed to determine the extent of impairment, if any.
This assessment has been made based on the value of the security which is primarily driven by the value of Incwalas underlying investments in WPL, EPL and Akanani.
The same valuation models for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs that were prepared to assess Impairment of non-financial assets below have been used as the basis for determining the value of Incwalas investments.
Thus similar judgements apply around the determination of key assumptions in those valuation models.
The results of this assessment as well as sensitivities are described in note 20a.
Physical quantities of inventory excluding consumables Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
An allowance for estimation uncertainty is applied to the various categories of inventory and is dependent on the degree to which the nature and state of material allows for accurate measurement and sampling.
Judgement, therefore, is applied in arriving at appropriate quantities of inventory to recognise at each reporting date.
Net realisable value of inventory excluding consumables Inventory is measured at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Metal stock that has a cost that is more than the net realisable value is written down to its net realisable value.
Market listed PGM prices adjusted for downstream recovery losses and processing costs are used as the basis of determining the net realisable value.
Idle production costs Idle production costs arise as a result of production disruptions e. g. strike action.
These costs are separately disclosed within special items.
The unit costs of the various metal stock items are adjusted to the lower of the unit cost in the relevant month or the unit cost of the last month of normal production.
Any inefficiencies which do not result from production disruptions are excluded from the calculation of idle production costs.
Refer to note 3 for further information.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued New standards and amendments in the year The following revised IFRSs have been adopted in these financial statements.
The application of these IFRSs did not have any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years: IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine effective 1 January 2013 requires that stripping costs incurred, which provide improved access to the ore, be recognised as a non-current asset stripping activity asset when certain criteria are met.
The principles of IFRIC 20 were adopted by the Group in 2012.
Amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment effective 1 January 2013 clarifies the accounting for spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment.
Amendment to IAS 34 Disclosure of segment assets and segment liabilities effective 1 January 2013 aligns the disclosure requirements for segment assets and segment liabilities in interim financial reporting with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective 1 January 2013 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and sets out disclosure requirements for fair value measurements.
Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets effective 1 January 2014, but early adopted by the Group reverses the unintended requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement to disclose the recoverable amount of every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill or indefinite-life intangible assets have been allocated.
Under the amendments, recoverable amount is required to be disclosed only when an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed.
There were no other new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the year which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates.
Where an associate owns an equity interest in a Group entity an adjustment is made to the equity accounting and the non-controlling interest to avoid double counting.
Any difference between the adjustment to the investment in the associate and non-controlling interest is taken directly to equity.
Where the adjustment results in net liabilities in the associate, as the Group has no obligation to fund these liabilities, they are not recognised.
Joint ventures JVs The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs.
JVs are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
com Lonmin Plc 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the financial reporting date are retranslated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the financial reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets and equity accounted investments which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional.
The impact of changes in metal prices to the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees including bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Companys accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource as well as capitalised interest.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure continued Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payments From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the financial reporting date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
com Lonmin Plc 130 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Taxation continued Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Business combinations and goodwill Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010 For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
On a  basis, the Group elects to measure non-controlling interests either at its fair value or at its proportionate interest in the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree at the acquisition date.
Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests Acquisitions and disposals of non-controlling interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Any difference between the price paid or received and the amount by which non-controlling interests are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Prior to the adoption of IAS 27 2008, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of financial position at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax The Groups principal non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amounts, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
The Groups two key CGUs are: i Marikana, which includes Western Platinum Limited WPL and Eastern Platinum Limited EPL.
The Marikana CGU mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group: and ii Akanani Mining Proprietary Limited Akanani, an exploration and evaluation asset located on the Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex in South Africa.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
com Lonmin Plc 132 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax continued Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts or studies for exploration and evaluation assets, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values are set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
The Platinum price is projected to be in the range of $1,545 to $2,035 per ounce in real terms over the life of the mine.
Palladium and Rhodium prices are expected to range between $859 and $1,290 and $1,372 and $2,531 respectively per ounce in real terms over the same period.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long-term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
For the Marikana CGU a life of mine spanning until 2058 was applied.
For the Akanani CGU the life of mine spans until 2049.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The rate applied in the Marikana CGU for 2014 was 11.8% real 2013 11.8% real.
The rate applied for the exploration and evaluation asset in the Akanani CGU for 2014 was 16.5% nominal 2013 14.8% nominal.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
The Akanani CGU was impaired in 2012, and as such a change to any of the key assumptions would lead to further impairment or reversal of the previous impairment.
The approximate effects on impairment of the Akanani CGU of movements in the three key assumptions would be as follows: Assumption Movement in assumption Reversal of impairment Further impairment Metal prices -5% $37m $28m ZAR:USD exchange rate -5% $31m $25m Discount rate - 100 basis points $73m $51m Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment Non-financial assets excluding inventories and deferred tax continued Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Akanani exploration and evaluation asset The Akanani CGU is currently at pre-feasibility study level and value in use calculations for the CGU are calculated using cash flows derived from the results of the latest study.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and a further refinement of capital and operating expenses.
In addition the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long-term metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources, capital and operating expenses, and long-term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
As mentioned above, the Akanani CGU was impaired in 2012, and given any reasonably possible change in assumptions could have an impact on the carrying amount, a formal impairment assessment was performed again in 2014.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Reversal of impairment At each financial reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately except for previously impaired goodwill which is never reversed.
Impairment financial assets including receivables A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the unwinding of the discount.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the financial reporting date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
com Lonmin Plc 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling.
The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011.
The related dividends accumulate on a month to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items, foreign exchange gains and losses.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the financial reporting date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value and then remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 125%.
For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, for example, the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument for example without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
com Lonmin Plc 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Segmental reporting The core principle of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being: PGM Operations which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
Evaluation which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
Exploration this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
EU endorsed IFRS not yet applied by the Group The following new IFRSs have been issued, but are not effective for Lonmin Plc for the financial year ending 30 September 2014: Effective for Lonmin Plc for periods beginning 1 October 2014: Transition Guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 2011 Separate Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 28 2008 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures The Group does not currently intend to early adopt these IFRSs and is yet to finalise its assessment of the impact of adopting these IFRSs.
2 Segmental analysis The Group distinguishes between three reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals PGM Operations segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment.
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa.
These operations are integrated and designed to support the process for extracting and refining PGMs from underground.
PGMs move through each stage of the process and undergo successive levels of refinement which result in fully refined metals.
The Chief Executive Officer, who performs the role of Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, views the PGM Operations segment as a single whole for the purposes of financial performance monitoring and assessment and does not make resource allocations based on margin, costs or cash flows incurred at each separate stage of the process.
In addition, the CODM makes his decisions for running the business on a day to day basis using the physical operating statistics generated by the business as these summarise the operating performance of the entire segment.
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa.
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits.
This activity occurs on a worldwide basis.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued No operating segments have been aggregated.
Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied.
The Other segment covers mainly the results and investment activities of the corporate Head Office.
The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any associated interest.
Year ended 30 September 2014 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 620 620 Palladium 165 165 Gold 21 21 Rhodium 85 85 Ruthenium 7 7 Iridium 15 15 PGMs 913 913 Nickel 29 29 Copper 10 10 Chrome 13 13 965 965 i Underlying : ii EBITDA LBITDA 204 5 6 9 194 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 142 142 ii Operating profit loss 62 5 6 9 52 Finance income 15 21 10 26 Finance expenses 19 19 10 28 Share of loss of equity accounted investments 4 4 Profit loss before taxation 54 5 6 7 46 Income tax expense 5 5 Underlying profit loss after taxation 49 5 6 7 41 iii Special items note 3 181 63 244 Loss profit after taxation 132 5 6 70 203 iv Total assets 3,767 277 1 1,546 1,226 4,365 Total liabilities 1,940 185 48 36 1,226 983 Net assets 1,827 92 47 1,510 3,382 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 28 28 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 109 2 111 Material non cash items share-based payments 14 1 15 www.
com Lonmin Plc 138 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Year ended 30 September 2013 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,055 1,055 Palladium 224 224 Gold 28 28 Rhodium 85 85 Ruthenium 13 13 Iridium 27 27 PGMs 1,432 1,432 Nickel 46 46 Copper 15 15 Chrome 27 27 1,520 1,520 i Underlying : ii EBITDA LBITDA 339 8 4 22 321 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 157 157 ii Operating profit loss 182 8 4 22 164 Finance income 13 14 18 9 Finance expenses 25 12 18 19 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 4 4 Profit loss before taxation 174 8 4 20 158 Income tax expense 27 27 Underlying profit loss after taxation 147 8 4 20 131 iii Special items note 3 68 1 67 Profit loss after taxation 215 8 4 21 198 iv Total assets 3,899 276 1,603 1,162 4,616 Total liabilities 1,909 187 42 30 1,162 1,006 Net assets 1,990 89 42 1,573 3,610 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 36 36 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 174 7 181 Material non cash items share-based payments 13 1 14 Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 $m $m The Americas 118 411 Asia 247 461 Europe 426 451 South Africa 174 197 965 1,520 The Groups revenue is all derived from the PGM Operations segment.
This segment has two major customers who contributed 60% $580 million and 25% $241 million of revenue in the year 2013 62% $937 million and 30% $459 million.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars.
The majority of sales are also invoiced in US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
Non-current assets excluding financial instruments of $3,407 million 2013 $3,446 million are all situated in South Africa.
Footnotes: i Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3. ii LBITDA EBITDA and operating loss profit are the key profit measures used by management.
iii The impairment of the HDSA receivable to the value of $80 million 2013 $nil is included under special items in the segmental analysis.
The HDSA receivable forms part of the Other segment.
iv The assets under Other include the HDSA receivable of $337 million 2013 $399 million and intercompany receivables of $1,226 million 2013 $1,162 million.
3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2014 2013 $m $m Operating loss: 307 17 i Strike related costs Idle fixed production costs 287 Security costs 10 Contractors claims 3 Other costs 7 7 ii Restructuring and reorganisation costs 10 iii Impairment of available for sale financial assets 1 2 iv Share of loss of equity accounted investments 2 Net finance expenses income: 62 1 v Interest accrued from HDSA receivable 18 17 v Foreign exchange gain on HDSA receivable 1 v Impairment of HDSA receivable 80 Net change in fair value of settled cash flow hedges 7 Unwinding fees relating to early settlement of interest rate swap 14 Foreign exchange gain on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance 1 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue 11 Loss on special items before taxation 372 18 Taxation related to special items note 7 128 85 Special loss gain before non-controlling interests 244 67 Non-controlling interests 25 10 Special loss gain for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 219 57 Footnotes: i Fixed production overheads incurred during the protected strike period for which there was no associated revenue and costs arising directly as a result of the strike action have been classified as special items.
The total of these strike related costs amounted to $307 million.
Idle fixed production costs incurred during the strike period amounted to $287 million.
These costs largely consist of salaries, utility costs and depreciation.
Additional security costs of $10 million were incurred.
Costs relating to contractors not being able to fulfil their obligations as a result of the disruption amounted to $3 million.
Other costs include legal, communication, medical and various other start-up costs incurred.
ii These costs relate to the management restructuring exercise completed in 2013. iii The $1 million 2013 $2 million impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in value below the original cost price of one of our investments.
iv The Pandora Joint Venture was also impacted by the strike.
These costs relate to idle production costs incurred for which there was no associated production output.
v During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group provided financing to assist Lexshell 806 Investments Proprietary Limited, a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmins Black Economic Empowerment partner.
This financing gave rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest.
Refer to note 20a for details regarding the impairment of the HDSA receivable.
com Lonmin Plc 140 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 4 Group operating loss profit Group operating loss profit is stated after charging crediting : 2014 2013 $m $m Depreciation charge property, plant and equipment 135 150 Amortisation charge intangible assets 7 7 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments and attraction bonuses 5 4 Share-based payments 15 14 Foreign exchange gains 34 49 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5 Special items note 3 307 17 Footnote: i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments and attraction bonuses includes $1 million 2013 $2 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2014 2013 $m $m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.5 0.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.7 Audit-related assurance services: Interim Review 0.2 0.2 Other assurance services: Sustainability Assurance services 0.2 0.2 Comfort letters in connection with Rights Issue 0.7 All other non-audit services 0.2 1.5 2.4 Fees paid to KPMG LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed in the individual accounts of Lonmin Plc because the Companys consolidated accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2014 2013 No.
South Africa 28,503 27,200 Europe 9 8 Rest of world 1 28,513 27,208 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2014 2013 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 484 651 Social security costs 21 26 Pension costs 43 51 Share-based payments 15 14 563 742 The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign exchange movements.
2014 2013 Key management compensation $m $m Short-term employee benefits excluding share-based payments and attraction bonuses 5 4 Share-based payments 1 Attraction bonuses 1 1 6 6 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Exco which comprised the two executive Directors and five other senior managers 2013 two executive Directors and six other senior managers.
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans at 30 September 2014 and 2013.
The total pension cost for the Group was $43 million 2013 $51 million, $43 million of which related to South African schemes 2013 $50 million.
com Lonmin Plc 142 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 6 Net finance expenses 2014 2013 $m $m Finance income: 26 9 Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 6 1 i Dividend received from investment 10 ii Foreign exchange gains on net debt cash 10 8 Finance expenses: 28 19 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 19 11 Bank fees 12 7 Unamortised bank fees realised on settlement of old loan facility note 29 3 iii Capitalised interest 13 11 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 22 10 9 Special items note 3 : 62 1 Interest on HDSA receivable note 14 18 17 Foreign exchange gain on HDSA receivable note 14 1 Impairment of HDSA loan receivable note 14 80 Net change in fair value of settled cash flow hedges 7 Unwinding fees relating to early settlement of interest rate swap 14 Foreign exchange gain on holding Rights Issue proceeds received in advance 1 Loss on forward exchange contracts in respect of Rights Issue 11 Net finance expenses 64 9 Footnotes: i Dividends received relate to arrear dividends accruing from our investment in Petrozim Line Private Limited which were remitted during the year.
The investment in Petrozim Line Private Limited has a $nil carrying value.
ii Net debt cash as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees, unless the unamortised bank fees relate to undrawn facilities in which case they are treated as other receivables.
iii Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 3.0% 2013 5.9%.
7 Taxation 2014 2013 $m $m Current tax charge excluding special items : United Kingdom tax expense i Current tax expense at 22% 2013 23.5% Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available Overseas current tax expense at 28% 2013 28% 2 2 Corporate tax expense current year 1 3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 1 Deferred tax charge excluding special items : Deferred tax expense UK and overseas 3 25 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3 26 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 Tax credit on special items UK and overseas note 3 : 128 85 ii Foreign exchange on current taxation 1 ii Foreign exchange on deferred taxation 42 81 Tax on special items impacting profit before tax 86 5 Actual tax credit 123 58 Tax charge excluding special items note 3 5 27 Effective tax rate 38% 41% Effective tax rate excluding special items note 3 11% 17% 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 7 Taxation continued A reconciliation of the standard tax credit charge to the actual tax credit was as follows: 2014 2014 2013 2013 % $m % $m Tax credit charge on loss profit at standard tax rate 28 91 28 39 Tax effect of: iii Unutilised losses 2 7 45 Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 7 21 17 23 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1 2 Disallowed expenditure 6 19 11 Expenses not subject to tax 2 5 57 Special items as defined above 13 42 61 85 Actual tax credit 38 123 41 58 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
The South African statutory tax rate is 28% 2013 28%.
Lonmin Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is also subject to a tax rate of 28% on branch profits 2013 28%.
The aggregated standard tax rate for the Group is 28% 2013 28%.
The dividend withholding tax rate is 15% 2013 15%.
Dividends payable by the South African companies to Lonmin Plc are subject to a 5% withholding tax benefitting from double taxation agreements.
Footnotes: i Effective from 1 April 2014 the United Kingdom tax rate changed from 23% to 21% and will change from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015.
This does not materially impact the Groups recognised deferred tax liabilities.
ii Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based in Rand as required by the local authorities.
As these subsidiaries functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2014 is $268 million 30 September 2013 $388 million.
iii Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
8 Loss earnings per share Loss earnings per share LPS EPS has been calculated on the loss attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $188 million 2013 profit of $166 million using a weighted average number of 569,649,750 ordinary shares in issue 2013 532,130,347 ordinary shares.
Diluted loss earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
In the year to 30 September 2014 outstanding share options were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted loss per share.
2014 2013 Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 188 569,649,750 33.0 166 532,130,347 31.2 Share option schemes 2,105,203 0.1 Diluted LPS EPS 188 569,649,750 33.0 166 534,235,550 31.1 2014 2013 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Underlying EPS 31 569,649,750 5.4 109 532,130,347 20.5 Share option schemes 5,917,508 2,105,203 0.1 Diluted Underlying EPS 31 575,567,258 5.4 109 534,235,550 20.4 www.
com Lonmin Plc 144 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 8 Loss earnings per share continued Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: 2014 2013 Loss profit Per share Profit for Per share for the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic LPS EPS 188 569,649,750 33.0 166 532,130,347 31.2 Special items note 3 219 38.4 57 10.7 Underlying EPS 31 569,649,750 5.4 109 532,130,347 20.5 Headline loss earnings and the resultant headline loss earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2014 2013 $m $m Loss earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 188 166 Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment note 4 5 Add back impairment of assets note 3 1 2 Tax related to the above items 1 Non-controlling interests 1 Headline loss earnings 187 171 2014 2013 Loss for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline LPS EPS 187 569,649,750 32.8 171 532,130,347 32.1 Share option schemes 2,105,203 0.1 Diluted Headline LPS EPS 187 569,649,750 32.8 171 534,235,550 32.0 9 Dividends No dividends were declared by Lonmin Plc for the financial years ended 30 September 2014 and 30 September 2013.
A subsidiary of Lonmin Plc, WPL, made advance dividend payments of $37 million R408 million 2013 $11 million R110 million to Incwala Platinum Proprietary Limited IP.
IP is a substantial shareholder in the Companys principal operating subsidiaries.
Total advance dividends made between 2009 and 2014 amount to R901 million.
IP has authorised WPL to recover these amounts by reducing future dividends that would otherwise be payable to all shareholders.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 10 Goodwill 2014 2013 $m $m Cost: At 30 September 186 186 Impairment: At 30 September 146 146 Net book value at 30 September 40 40 Goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment.
This arose on the buy out of 9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
Goodwill in relation to the Akanani CGU was fully impaired in 2012.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs goodwill has been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
11 Intangible assets 2014 2013 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 744 344 37 1,125 737 344 37 1,118 Additions 2 2 7 7 At 30 September 746 344 37 1,127 744 344 37 1,125 Amortisation and impairment: At 1 October 529 107 27 663 529 100 27 656 Charge for the year 7 7 7 7 At 30 September 529 114 27 670 529 107 27 663 Net book value: At 30 September 217 230 10 457 215 237 10 462 The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $217 million 2013 $215 million relating to the exploration and evaluation operations at Akanani.
After deducting deferred tax of $46 million 2013 $46 million the net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $171 million 2013 $169 million including the non-controlling interests share.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $nil of capitalised interest 2013 $4 million.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies see note 1.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10. www.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2013 $13 million.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 13 Equity accounted investments The Group owns 23.56% of the ordinary shares of its associate, Incwala Resources Proprietary Limited which is incorporated in South Africa refer to footnote i.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2014 2013 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Groups interest in net assets of investee at 1 October 36 36 157 157 i Incwala equity accounting adjustment 115 115 Share of total comprehensive loss income 6 6 4 4 Distribution of profits 2 2 Capital contributions 1 1 1 1 Foreign exchange loss on retranslation of equity accounted investments 3 3 9 9 Carrying amount of interest in investee at 30 September 28 28 36 36 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise: 2014 2013 Joint venture Joint venture $m $m Share of net assets 28 36 The Groups share of the loss profit of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2014 2013 Joint venture Joint venture $m $m Revenue 12 23 ii Loss profit from continuing operations 6 4 Total comprehensive loss income 6 4 www.
com Lonmin Plc 148 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 13 Equity accounted investments continued The Groups share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2014 2013 Joint venture Joint venture $m $m iii Current assets 5 10 Non-current assets 42 46 iv Current liabilities 18 19 v Non-current liabilities 1 1 Net assets 28 36 Footnotes: i Where an associate owns an equity interest in a Group entity an adjustment is made to the equity accounting and the non-controlling interest to avoid double counting.
Since Incwala only holds interests in WPL, EPL and Akanani, which are all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc, the adjustment resulted in the investment in the associate being reduced to $nil.
ii Includes: depreciation and amortisation of $0.7 million 2013 $0.5 million.
interest expense of $nil 2013 $nil.
income tax expense of $0.7 million 2013 $1 million.
idle production costs classified as special costs $2 million 2013 $nil.
Refer note 3 for more detail.
iii Includes cash and cash equivalents of $0.7 million 2013 $5 million.
iv Includes current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of $15 million 2013 $15 million.
v Includes non-current financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions of $1 million 2013 $nil.
14 Other financial assets Available HDSA Restricted cash for sale receivable Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2013 14 17 399 430 Interest accrued 1 18 19 Movement in fair value 1 1 Foreign exchange differences 3 3 Impairment loss 1 80 81 At 30 September 2014 12 15 337 364 Available HDSA Restricted cash for sale receivable Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2012 18 19 381 418 Interest accrued 1 17 18 Foreign exchange differences 5 1 4 Impairment loss 2 2 At 30 September 2013 14 17 399 430 2014 2013 $m $m Current assets Other financial assets 337 Non-current assets Other financial assets 27 430 Restricted cash deposits are in respect of rehabilitation obligations.
Available for sale financial assets include listed investments of $11 million 2013 $13 million held at fair value using the market price on 30 September 2014.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 14 Other financial assets continued The $1 million 2013 $2 million impairment of available for sale financial assets represents the loss in value below the original cost price of one of our investments.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing of 200 million to Lexshell 806 Investments Proprietary Limited, a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited, to facilitate the acquisition, at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala Resources Proprietary Limited from the original HDSA shareholders.
The terms of the financing provided by Lonmin Plc to the Shanduka subsidiary include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at fixed rates based on a principal value of 200 million which is repayable after 5 years including accrued interest, or earlier at the Shanduka subsidiarys discretion.
The HDSA receivable is repayable on 8 July 2015.
15 Inventories 2014 2013 $m $m Consumables 54 51 Work in progress 300 367 Finished goods 19 31 373 449 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $715 million 2013 $1,184 million.
16 Trade and other receivables 2014 2013 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 17 24 Other receivables 56 54 Prepayments and accrued income 3 3 Unamortised bank fees 5 76 86 17 Trade and other payables 2014 2013 $m $m Trade payables 105 120 Accruals and other payables 128 161 Indirect taxation and social security 11 14 244 295 18 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2014 2013 $m $m Short-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 86 Long-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 86 172 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 20b.
As at 30 September 2014 unamortised bank fees of $3 million relating to drawn facilities were offset against loans 30 September 2013 $5 million of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities were treated as other receivables.
com Lonmin Plc 150 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 18 Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued Bank debt facilities consist of a $400 million syndicated revolving credit US Dollar facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities of R660 million each.
The main features of the $400 million syndicated facility which is supported by BNP Paribas S. A. Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. and Standard Chartered Bank are as follows: a $400 million five year committed revolving credit facility that matures in May 2016: and the margin on the facility is in the range 300bps to 375bps.
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the Western Platinum Limited level, the operating company.
These facilities are supported by FirstRand Bank Limited, Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited.
The main features of these facilities are as follows: each facility is of a revolving credit nature and consists of a R330 million five year committed component that matures in June 2016 and a R330 million one year committed component that can be rolled annually at the discretion of the bank: and the margins on these facilities vary from facility to facility and bank to bank.
The following financial covenants apply to these facilities: consolidated tangible net worth will not be less than $2,250 million: consolidated net debt will not exceed 25% of consolidated tangible net worth: and if: in respect of the US Dollar Facilities Agreement, the aggregate amount of outstanding loans exceeds $75 million at any time during the last six months of any test period: or in respect of both the US Dollar Facilities Agreement and the Rand Facilities Agreements, consolidated net debt exceeds $300 million as of the last day of any test period, the capital expenditure of the Group must not exceed the limits set out in the table below, provided that, if 110% of budgeted capital expenditure for any test period ending on or after 30 September 2013 is lower than the capital expenditure limit set out in the table below for that test period, then the capital expenditure limit for that test period shall be equal to 110% of such budgeted capital expenditure.
Capital expenditure Test Period limit ZAR 1 October 2012 to 31 March 2013 inclusive 800,000,000 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013 inclusive 1,600,000,000 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 inclusive 1,800,000,000 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 inclusive 2,000,000,000 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 inclusive 3,000,000,000 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 inclusive 4,000,000,000 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 inclusive 4,000,000,000 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 inclusive 4,000,000,000 As at 30 September 2014, Lonmin had net debt of $29 million, comprising of cash and equivalents of $143 million and borrowings of $172 million 2013 $201 million of net cash.
Undrawn facilities amounted to $400 million 2013 $598 million.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 19 Deferred revenue In March 2012 Lonmin entered into a pre-paid sale of 75% of its current gold production for the next 54 months.
Under this contract Lonmin will deliver 70,700 ounces of gold over the period with delivery of fixed quantities on a quarterly basis and in return received an upfront payment of $107 million.
Proceeds of the pre-paid sale are treated as deferred revenue and amortised to profit as deliveries occur.
Due to the strike action in the platinum sector the Group bought gold to the value of $2.3 million to fulfil its contractual obligation.
2014 2013 $m $m Opening balance 70 94 Less: Contractual deliveries 20 24 Closing balance 50 70 Current liabilities Deferred revenue 27 23 Non-current liabilities Deferred revenue 23 47 20 Financial risk management The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs liquidity risk, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions credit risk, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and commodity prices market risk.
20a Credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2014 2013 $m $m Non-current assets: HDSA receivable 399 Other financial assets 27 31 Current assets: Trade receivables 17 24 Other receivables 56 54 Tax recoverable 2 4 HDSA receivable 337 Cash and cash equivalents 143 201 582 713 www.
com Lonmin Plc 152 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20a Credit risk continued HDSA receivable The HDSA receivable as described in note 14 is secured on shares in the HDSA borrower, Lexshell 806 Investments Proprietary Limited, a subsidiary of Shanduka Resources Proprietary Limited.
The HDSA borrowers only asset of value is its ultimate shareholding in Incwala.
As Incwalas principal assets are investments in WPL, EPL and Akanani, all subsidiaries of Lonmin Plc, the value in use models for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs as described in note 1 under Impairment of non-financial assets are applied to determine the value of Incwala and in turn, the value of the HDSA borrower the security.
The value of the security is $337 million at 30 September 2014.
Key assumptions to the value in use models are described in note 1 under Impairment of non-financial assets.
At 31 March 2014, the carrying amount of the HDSA receivable was impaired by $160 million to bring it down to its recoverable amount.
The impairment review performed at 30 September 2014 resulted in an impairment reversal of $80 million largely as a result of the weaker Rand and improved metal price assumptions applied to the valuation models.
Any movements in the key assumptions would affect the value of the security which would lead to reversal of previous impairment or further impairment of the receivable as follows: Reversal of impairment Assumption Movement in assumption further impairment of receivable Metal prices -5% $61m $61m ZAR:USD exchange rate -5% $42m $47m Discount rate - 100 basis points $46m $39m Production -5% $60m $61m Trade receivables The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of customers.
This risk is managed as follows: aged analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis: credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored on an ongoing basis: credit limits are set for customers: and trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined It should be noted that a significant portion of Lonmins revenue is from two key customers.
However, both of these customers have strong investment grade ratings and their payment terms are very short, thereby reducing trade receivable credit risk significantly.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2014 2013 $m $m Asia 1 4 Europe 1 6 South Africa 15 14 17 24 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2014 2013 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 17 17 24 24 Banking counterparties Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
Banking counterparties are approved by the Board and consist of the ten banks that have participated in Lonmins existing bank debt facilities as described in note 18.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20b Liquidity risk and capital management Liquidity risk The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 172 172 86 86 Trade and other payables 244 244 244 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Trade and other payables 295 295 295 Capital management The Groups philosophy on capital management is to maintain a low level of financial gearing given the exposure of the business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand US Dollar exchange rate.
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding and bank borrowings.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 2014 2013 $m $m Equity shareholders funds 3,233 3,409 Loans and borrowings 172 Cash and cash equivalents 143 201 At 30 September 3,262 3,208 As part of the annual budgeting and long term planning process, the Groups cash flow forecast is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The cash flow forecast is amended for any material changes identified during the year, for example material acquisitions and disposals.
Where funding requirements are identified from the cash flow forecast, appropriate measures are taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied.
Factors taken into consideration are: the size and nature of the requirement: preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of cost, commitment, availability, security covenant conditions: recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions: and covenants, guarantees and other financial commitments.
com Lonmin Plc 154 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20c Foreign currency risk The Groups operations are essentially based in South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US Dollars.
However, the bulk of the Groups operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand.
Most of the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
A majority of the Groups funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
2014 2013 SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Other financial assets 12 15 27 14 17 31 HDSA receivable 399 399 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 48 8 56 68 68 Cash and cash equivalents 70 11 72 36 21 39 Tax recoverable 2 2 4 4 HDSA receivable 337 337 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 227 12 1 240 284 5 289 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 87 87 Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 88 88 270 334 15 79 162 396 18 252 The principal exchange rates impacting the Groups results are Rand Dollar and Sterling Dollar.
Details of average exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $268 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed to currency risk 2013 $388 million.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand US Dollar currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a significant impact on the Groups results.
A strengthening of the Rand against the US Dollar has an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid in Rand.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2014 average and closing exchange rate would be as follows: 2014 2013 Underlying operating profit loss $65m $130m Underlying profit loss for the year $40m $81m Equity $40m $81m EPS cents 7.0c 15.2c These sensitivities are based on 2014 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20d Interest rate risk The bulk of our borrowing facilities are in US Dollars and at floating rates of interest.
The interest position is kept under constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined in note 20b and the future funding requirements of the business.
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 % $m $m $m $m Liabilities: i Unsecured bank loans 5.9 86 86 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets: US Dollar 17 10 71 162 SA Rand 50 72 82 50 Sterling 8 1 2 337 399 Other 15 17 1 1 90 99 155 215 337 399 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: US Dollar 4 6 SA Rand 227 284 175 Sterling 12 5 Other 1 244 295 175 Footnote: i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the financial reporting date.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change in the interest rate will have limited effect on equity and profit or loss due to the majority of interest being capitalised.
20e Commodity price risk Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on PGMs, except Gold, and therefore any change in prices will have a direct effect on the Groups trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of these products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months.
The Group did not undertake any hedging of base metals under this authority in the financial year and no forward contracts were in place in respect of base metals at the end of the year.
In 2012 the Group undertook a prepaid sale of Gold.
Refer to note 19 for details.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the 2014 average metal prices achieved for Platinum Pt $1,403 per ounce, Palladium Pd $775 per ounce and Rhodium Rh $1,050 per ounce would be as follows: 2014 2013 Pt Pd Rh Pt Pd Rh Underlying operating profit loss $62m $17m $9m $106m $22m $9m Underlying profit loss for the year $39m $10m $5m $66m $14m $5m Equity $39m $10m $5m $66m $14m $5m EPS cents 7.2c 1.9c 1.0c 17.2c 3.7c 1.4c These sensitivities are based on 2014 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
com Lonmin Plc 156 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: 2014 2013 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Other financial assets 27 27 31 31 HDSA receivable 337 337 399 399 Trade and other receivables 73 73 78 78 Tax recoverable 22 44 Cash and cash equivalents 143 143 201 201 Financial assets 582 582 713 713 Trade and other payables 244 244 295 295 Unsecured bank loans 175 175 Financial liabilities 419 419 295 295 Net financial assets 163 163 418 418 Listed investments within other financial assets are marked to market.
The unlisted investment is at Directors valuation and the residual balances in available for sale financial assets relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost.
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees unless the unamortised bank fees relate to undrawn facilities in which case they are treated as other receivables.
20g Fair value hierarchy The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows: Level 1 fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Other financial assets 11 4 15 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Other financial assets 13 4 17 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 21 Deferred tax assets liabilities 2014 2013 Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance Deferred tax assets liabilities in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 537 537 607 607 Provisions 117 117 100 100 Trading losses 38 38 Share-based payments 6 6 6 6 161 537 376 106 607 501 Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2013 movements items Underlying income 2014 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 607 42 86 58 537 Provisions 100 17 117 Trading losses 38 38 Share-based payments 6 6 501 42 86 3 376 Recognised in income At 1 Special items Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2012 movements items Underlying income 2013 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 648 81 5 45 607 Provisions 75 25 100 Trading losses 5 5 Share-based payments 6 6 562 81 5 25 501 www.
com Lonmin Plc 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 21 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2014 2013 Unrecognised Unrecognised deferred tax deferred tax Temporary assets Temporary assets differences liabilities differences liabilities $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 162 34 162 32 Trading and other losses carried forward 70 17 88 18 Unredeemed capital expenditure 220 61 245 49 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,690 84 1,631 82 1,238 28 1,136 17 The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 21% 2013 23%, South Africa at 28% 2013 28% and Canada at 18% 2013 18%.
Dividends payable by the South African companies to Lonmin Plc will be subject to a 5% withholding tax benefitting from double taxation agreements.
Therefore unrecognised deferred tax liabilities generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries in 2014 only apply to Plc for dividends receivable from WPL and EPL at a rate of 5%.
At 30 September 2014, the Group had an amount of $114 million 2013 $114 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $274 million 2013 $274 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as management believe the chances of recovery are low.
22 Provisions 2014 2013 $m $m Opening balance 140 143 Capitalised to non-current assets 5 11 Established in the year 2 2 Unwinding of discount note 6 10 9 Foreign exchange differences 16 25 Closing balance 141 140 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
The Group provided third party guarantees to the Department of Mineral Resources amounting to $55 million 2013 $59 million in connection with these rehabilitation obligations which the Group has to fund in order to restore the environment once all mining operations have ceased.
The movement in the value of the guarantees is mainly caused by foreign exchange movements.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 23 Contingent liabilities 2014 2013 $m $m i Third party guarantees 9 10 Footnote: i The Group provided third party guarantees to Eskom as security to cover estimated electricity accounts for three months.
24 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Issued and fully paid 2014 570,660,777 570 Issued and fully paid 2013 569,454,312 569 Deferred shares of 1 each: Issued and fully paid 2014 and 2013 50,000 Issued and Paid up Share fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2013: Ordinary shares of $1 each 569,454,312 569 1,411 The issue of shares pursuant to: issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan 1,206,465 1 At 30 September 2014: Ordinary shares of $1 each 570,660,777 570 1,411 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
com Lonmin Plc 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 25 Share plans At 30 September 2014, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise price remaining fair value of outstanding contracted of options Number options life granted of shares pence years Share Plans Long Term Incentive Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2013 4,641,996 Granted during the year 1,958,546 Exercised during the year 364,050 Lapsed during the year 750,162 Outstanding at 30 September 2014 5,486,330 2.04 1.72 Exercisable at the end of the year Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2013 10,806,426 Granted during the year 4,483,012 Exercised during the year 807,379 Lapsed during the year 1,436,755 Outstanding at 30 September 2014 13,045,304 1.95 1.80 Exercisable at the end of the year ASAP Outstanding at 1 October 2013 717,015 Granted during the year 598,780 Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 97,948 Outstanding at 30 September 2014 1,217,847 8.55 3.02 Exercisable at the end of the year Recruitment Award Special Award Outstanding at 1 October 2013 384,872 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 43,434 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2014 341,438 1.17 Exercisable at the end of the year Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 25 Share plans continued Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2014 the Trust held 46,665 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2013 154,765 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was $0.1 million.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Ben Magara and Simon Scott are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan included in the table of Directors share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year The fair values of equity settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: LTIP Monte Carlo Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo 2014 2013 Range of share price at date of grant 1.80 3.02 2.76 3.46 Range of share price at date of exercise 2.24 2.83 2.88 3.19 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 44% 47% Dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% Risk free interest rate 1.0% 0.1% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
com Lonmin Plc 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 26 Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 5 and its equity accounted investments note 13.
The Groups related party transactions and balances are summarised below: 2014 2013 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 30 46 Amounts due from joint venture Pandora 8 9 Amounts due from associate Incwala 1 2 i Dividends to minorities Incwala 37 11 Interest accrued from HDSA investors in Incwala 18 17 ii Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 9 7 iii Purchases made from Glencore Xstrata Plc 1 iii Sales to Glencore Xstrata Plc 19 36 iii Amounts due from Glencore Xstrata Plc 2 2 iv Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala 417 399 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
Footnotes: i These advance dividend payments were made by a Group company, WPL, to Incwala Platinum Proprietary Limited IP as explained in note 9.
In addition, the Group has committed to provide an additional loan facility to IP of R242 million which they can draw down on to meet their funding obligations.
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
iii Glencore Xstrata Plc has a 24.45% shareholding in Lonmin Plc.
iv Refer to note 14 for details regarding the amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala.
27 Capital commitments 2014 2013 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 20 19 28 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2014 2013 $m $m Operating leases which fall due for payment: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 2 2 Over five years 2 3 5 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 29 Net debt cash as defined by the Group Transfer of Foreign unamortised As at exchange bank As at 1 October and non-cash fees to other 30 September 2013 Cash flow movements receivables 2014 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 201 71 13 143 Current borrowings 87 87 Non-current borrowings 88 88 ii Unamortised bank fees 3 3 i Net cash debt as defined by the Group 201 246 13 3 29 Transfer of Foreign unamortised As at exchange bank As at 1 October and non-cash fees to other 30 September 2012 Cash flow movements receivables 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 315 127 13 201 Current borrowings 123 123 Non-current borrowings 619 619 ii Unamortised bank fees 6 3 2 5 i Net debt cash as defined by the Group 421 612 15 5 201 Footnotes: i Net debt cash as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees, unless the unamortised bank fees relate to undrawn facilities in which case they are treated as other receivables.
ii As at 30 September 2014 unamortised bank fees of $3 million relating to drawn facilities were offset against net debt 30 September 2013 $5 million of unamortised bank fees relating to undrawn facilities were included in other receivables.
30 Events after the financial reporting period The Company is required to increase HDSA ownership in its prospecting and mining ventures by 31 December 2014 from its current holding of 18% to at least 26% as required under the Mining Charter.
As flagged to shareholders in the regulatory release of July 2014, Lonmin announced that it had entered into binding agreements with the Bapo ba Mogale Traditional Community the Bapo in relation to a series of transactions which will enable Lonmin to meet its Black Economic Empowerment BEE targets.
Lonmin also stated its intention to implement an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP and a Community Share Ownership Trust CSOT for the benefit of the local communities on the western portion of our Marikana operations.
All three transactions will collectively provide the additional 8% equity empowerment which Lonmin requires to achieve the 26% effective BEE equity ownership target by 31 December 2014.
Bapo Transaction The Bapo Transaction involved a royalty for equity swap and the sale of the Bapo 7.5% stake in the Pandora Joint Venture to a Lonmin subsidiary.
This transaction provided the Bapo Community with equity participation of circa 2.25% at Lonmin Plc level, a deferred royalty payment of R20 million per annum payable by Lonplats Eastern and Western Platinum combined in each of the five years following completion of the transaction, and a minimum procurement spend of R200 million over the 18 months following the completion of the transaction.
Whilst binding legal agreements were signed in July 2014, two conditions precedent remain to be satisfied and are expected to be satisfied during November 2014 at which stage the transaction will be complete and implemented.
Certain members of the Bapo Community have indicated that they may institute legal action challenging, amongst other things, the authority of the Bapo to enter into this transaction.
These threats to institute legal action have not been acted upon at this stage.
com Lonmin Plc 164 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Notes to the Accounts 30 Events after the financial reporting period continued Employee Share Ownership Plan Whilst engagements between Lonmin and unions continue as regards the nature of the ESOP to be implemented at Lonmin, the likelihood is that the ESOP proposed by Lonmin which is based on a profit-sharing scheme will be implemented before the end of 2014.
The ESOP will result in economic partnership and ownership by our employees and sharing the responsibilities and involvement that this ownership brings.
This implementation will ensure that Lonmin receives HDSA equity accreditation of 3.8%.
However, the intention is that the parties continue to engage on the details of the ESOP even post implementation so that it is capable of future amendment should it be in the interests of Lonmin and its employees to do so.
Community Trusts Two separate community trusts are being established one for the Bapo Community and other for the communities on the western side of our operations.
Each community trust will hold Lonplats shares and will be entitled to dividend payments to be used for the upliftment of the respective communities.
To the extent that the dividend payable in a particular year is less than R5 million, each community trust will be entitled to a minimum annual payment of R5 million escalating in line with CPI each year.
The two community trusts will entitle Lonmin to an HDSA equity accreditation of 1.8%.
At this stage, the Company expects that completion of all of these arrangements should be achieved by 31 December 2014.
31 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Effective Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Principal Company incorporation % activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 86.2% Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Proprietary Ltd South Africa 80.1% Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
Incwala Platinum Proprietary Limited IP is the only minority shareholder in the Group companies listed above.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2014 2013 Note $m $m Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets 33 1 1 Investments 1,136 1,535 Shares in subsidiary undertakings 34 1,136 1,136 Other financial assets 35 399 Total non-current assets 1,137 1,536 Current assets Deferred tax 36 3 2 Debtors 37 1,327 1,255 Other financial assets 35 337 Cash at bank and on hand 42 117 Total current assets 1,709 1,374 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 38 694 695 Net current assets 1,015 679 Total assets less current liabilities 2,152 2,215 Net assets 2,152 2,215 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 39 570 569 Share premium account 39 1,411 1,411 Other reserves 39 88 88 Profit and loss account 39 83 147 Total shareholders funds 39 2,152 2,215 The financial statements of Lonmin Plc, registered number 103002, were approved by the Board of Directors on 9 November 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Brian Beamish Chairman Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer www.
