East 1 shaft is now reported under Westerns in-line with changes in management structure.
Prior years have been adjusted accordingly.
Pandora underground and opencast tonnes mined represents 100% of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture of which 42.5% is attributable to Lonmin.
Limpopo underground tonnes mined represents low grade development tonnes mined whilst on care and maintenance.
Ounces mined have been calculated at achieved concentrator recoveries and as from 2014 with Lonmin standard downstream processing recoveries to present produced saleable ounces.
Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
Limpopo tonnes milled represents low grade development tonnes milled.
Head Grade is the grammes per tonne 5PGE Au value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines excludes slag milled.
Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled excluding slag.
As from 2014  are calculated at Lonmin standard downstream processing recoveries to present produced saleable ounces.
Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal.
Copper is produced as refined product but typically at LME grade C. Chrome is produced in the form of chromite concentrate and volumes shown are in the form of chromite.
Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates.
Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs 5PGE Au sold in the period based on the appropriate Rand Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
As per note 14 but including revenue from base metals.
Capital expenditure is the aggregate of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets includes capital accruals and excludes capitalised interest.
Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period.
Comprises of Smelting and Refining costs as well as direct Process Operations shared costs.
It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business and reporting changes in 2010, 2011 and 2014 the cost allocation between business units has been changed and, therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
