Lonmin Plc 200 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are also traded in an OTC market in the USA.
UK share register information All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held on the South African branch register.
The register is administered by Equiniti Registrars formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You can access information about your shareholding including balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an electronic communications service provided by Equiniti.
It also allows you to change your registered address details, set up a dividend mandate, vote at general meetings and register to receive Company communications electronically.
To register for this free service, visit www.
co. uk and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your shareholder reference number, which can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
South African branch register information The South African branch register is administered by Link Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 202.
Dividends No dividends will have been recommended or declared for the year ended 30 September 2014.
The following information regarding UK Capital Gains Tax and Individual Savings Accounts is relevant for UK resident, ordinarily resident and domiciled individual shareholders.
None of this information constitutes financial or tax advice and is intended as a general guide only.
UK Capital Gains Tax For UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
The base cost of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares, for shareholders who held shares prior to that date, at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998, 266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009 and 185 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in November 2012, assuming in each case that shares have been held continuously by the relevant shareholder throughout the period.
The precise tax analysis for each shareholder may depend on the shareholders own position, for example, shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the Rights Issues but who instead sold some or all of their rights may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares and the base costs provided above are indicative only.
Shareholders should seek independent tax advice as to their liability for capital gains tax in the event that they sell their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account ISAs Investec Wealth & Investment Limited offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum of 15,000 for the current tax year 2014 15 in cash to purchase Lonmin Plc shares or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days of the release from an eligible Sharesave Scheme up to a maximum value of 15,000 for the current tax year 2014 15.
Maximum values for the forthcoming tax year 2015 16 have yet to be announced by HMRC.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 202.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
2 Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
3 Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details.
5 Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
7 Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
9 Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
10 Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Report a scam If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. www.
