Notes For the 52 weeks ended 4 October 2014 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and leasehold properties and derivative financial instruments, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, no profit and loss account has been presented for the Company.
As permitted by section 408 2 of the Companies Act 2006, information about the Companys employee numbers and costs has not been presented.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents rent receivable from licensed properties, which is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other operating income comprises mainly rent receivable from unlicensed properties.
Current and deferred tax The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date that give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and profits as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and assets are only recognised where recoverability is probable.
Deferred tax has been calculated at the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less residual value over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to residual value over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Fixtures, fittings, plant and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
Own labour and interest costs directly attributable to capital projects are capitalised.
Properties are revalued by qualified valuers at least once in each rolling three year period, on an existing use basis.
Substantially all of the Companys properties have been externally valued in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Red Book.
These valuations are performed directly by reference to observable prices in an active market or recent market transactions on arms length terms.
Internal valuations are performed on the same basis.
When a valuation is below current carrying value, the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the profit and loss account.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except to the extent they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case the reversal is recorded in the profit and loss account.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed.
In addition, the Company must be committed to the sale and completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classification.
Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated.
Disposals of fixed assets Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets represents net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the fixed assets disposed of is transferred to the profit and loss reserve at the date of sale.
Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under those leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Lease premiums received are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Obligations arising from sale and leaseback arrangements with repurchase options that do not fall within the scope of SSAP 21 Accounting for leases and hire purchase contracts are classified as other lease related borrowings and accounted for in accordance with FRS 26 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for diminution in value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93
