Information for Shareholders Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 27 January 2015 at 12 noon at Wolverhampton Racecourse, Holiday Inn Garden Court, Dunstall Park, Wolverhampton, WV6 0PE.
Financial calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 18 December 2014 Record date for final dividend 19 December 2014 AGM and Interim Management Statement 27 January 2015 Final dividend payment date 2 February 2015 Half-year results May 2015 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend May 2015 Interim dividend payment date July 2015 These dates are indicative only and may be subject to change.
The Marstons PLC website Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website www.
co. uk for further information about the Company.
The dedicated Investors section on the website contains information specifically for shareholders including share price information, historical dividend amounts and payment dates together with this years and prior years Annual Report and Accounts.
Registrars The Companys shareholder register is maintained by our Registrar Equiniti.
If you have any queries relating to your Marstons PLC shareholding you should contact Equiniti directly by one of the methods below: Online: www.
co. uk from here you will be able to securely email Equiniti with your query.
Telephone: 0871 384 2274 Text phone: 0871 384 2255 By post: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Dividend payments By completing a bank mandate form dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building society account.
Those selecting this payment method will benefit from receiving cleared funds in their bank account on the payment date, avoiding postal delays and removing the risk of any cheques being lost in the post.
To change how you receive your dividends contact Equiniti or visit www.
co. uk Duplicate documents If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the AGM this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different way.
If you think this might be the case and would like to combine your accounts, please contact Equiniti.
It is important that you notify Equiniti of your new address as soon as possible.
If you hold 1,500 shares or fewer, and reside in the UK, this can be done quickly over the telephone.
However, for holdings greater than 1,500 shares your instruction will need to be in writing, quoting your full name, shareholder reference number if known, previous address and new address.
Electronic communications Changes in legislation in recent years allow the Company to use its corporate website as the main way to communicate with shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts are only sent to those shareholders who have opted to receive a paper copy.
Registering to receive shareholder documentation from the Company electronically will allow shareholders to: view the Annual Report and Accounts on the day it is published: receive an email alert when the Annual Report and Accounts and any other shareholder documents are available: cast their AGM votes electronically: and manage their shareholding quickly and securely online, through www.
co. uk This reduces our impact on the environment, minimises waste and reduces printing and mailing costs.
For further information and to register for electronic shareholder communications visit www.
co. uk Buying and selling shares in the UK If you wish to buy or sell Marstons PLC shares and hold a share certificate, you can: use the services of a stockbroker or high street bank: or use a telephone or online service.
If you sell your shares in this way you will need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Details of low cost dealing services may be obtained from www.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 Information for Shareholders continued Share fraud warning Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the FCA list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk, where you will find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Calls cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Lines are open Monday to Friday, 8:00am to 4.30pm for dealing and until 6:00pm for enquiries.
Company details Registered office: Marstons House, Brewery Road, Wolverhampton, WV1 4JT Telephone: 01902 711811 Company registration number: 31461 100 Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
