Chairmans statement 1 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2007 Chairman Chairmans s s st tatement atement Meggitt put in another outstanding performance in 2007.
Revenues increased 31% to 878.2 million and underlying pro t before taxation was up 35% to 179.0 million.
Cash ow was again strong with 99% of underlying operating pro t converted to cash.
The order book at 31 December 2007 closed at over 650 million.
All this is enabling us to propose a 12% increase in the final dividend to 5.75 pence.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman At the same time, Meggitt invested 134.4 million in facilities and intellectual property across In addition, we acquired an operation that has the the group.
same business model as Meggitt.
K & F has an extensive aftermarket that delivers predictable One of the major milestones in the year was and pro table income streams throughout our 920.1 million acquisition of K & F Industries economic cycles.
As long as cargo and people Holdings Inc K & F. This is Meggitts largest need to y, the aircraft that carry them will need purchase and is being integrated according to spares and repairs to stay in service.
plan and trading well, with synergy savings ahead of expectations.
With K & F came Engineered Fabrics Corporation EFC, which conforms to Meggitts interest in In 2008, we disposed of S-Tec Inc, our non-core businesses that lead in their chosen elds.
EFC autopilot business, and acquired Ferroperm, is the premier supplier of innovative exible fuel a supplier of advanced sensing materials.
This tanks to the US military and is a close t with our extends the ability of our sensing systems division existing polymers business.
to respond to customers requirements for more data from cryogenic to high heat environments.
With facilities in Mexico, K & F is playing its role in enhancing Meggitts manufacturing footprint.
Organisation Like our Chinese operation, this helps us to During the year, we reorganised our aerospace respond to the requirements of customers own equipment, sensing and defence systems global sourcing strategies.
Group resources Aerospace equipment continued to focus its Meggitts businesses continue to rise to the businesses around key capabilitiespolymer challenge of meeting the groups goals, supported solutions, uid control, thermal management, by experts in operations excellence and materials safety systems and wheels and brakes.
sourcing, organisation development, strategy and We merged our sensing systems business units marketing, information services, export compliance into one division.
Defence systems consolidated its Californian This is because Meggitt people continue to combat systems operations into a brand-new be excited about working for our fast-growing site and its aerial, marine, ground targetry and group, demonstrating tenacity and imagination simulated weapons training business units now in pursuit of divisional and operating unit goals.
operate as oneMeggitt Training Systems.
Our smart engineering for extreme environments would be nothing without them and I would like to Braking power congratulate all at Meggitt for another outstanding Braking systems in particular saw a quantum performance this year.
leap in capability with the acquisition of K & F. We are merging its braking business with Meggitts established braking operations to create one highly competitive company with the services and technologies in demand in the market place.
