Growth how we achieVed these resuLts Creating a world-leading consultancy Michael page International is a world-leading specialist recruitment consultancy.
Growing entirely organically, rather than by mergers or acquisitions, we now have over, 000 people in 1 9 offices in countries worldwide.
our specialist areas are accounting, tax and treasury, Banking and Financial Services, Consultancy, Strategy and Change, engineering & Manufacturing, healthcare, human resources, It & technology, legal, Marketing, oil & Gas, procurement & Supply Chain, property & Construction, retail & hospitality, Sales and Secretarial.
Coming from all industry sectors, our clients range from marketleading multi-nationals to small and medium enterprises.
In each case, we tailor our services to provide a bespoke offering to meet our clients needs whether permanent, growIng entIrely contract, temporary or interim.
organIcally, focusing on strategies that endure rather than recruitment is a cyclical business.
to counter this, as much as by Mergers or possible, our strategy is to expand geographically nationally acquIsItIons... and internationally and broaden the disciplines to reduce the dependency on individual businesses or markets.
We are always making long-term investment decisions to expand organically, growing existing and new teams, offices, disciplines and countries with a consistent team culture.
We underpin this drive by drawing upon the skills and experiences of proven Michael page management and ensure we have the best, most experienced, home-grown talent in each key role.
Culturally it is imperative that we are entrepreneurial, operate within a strict meritocracy and are team-based, whereby consultants enjoy profit sharing arrangements rather than individual commissions.
to achieve this, we place great emphasis on training our people and invest heavily in technology to maximise both performance and delivery.
1 MIChael paGe InternatIonal finding solutions that are needed Being recognised for setting the standard our clients are competing in an increasingly fierce war a growing number of initiatives and awards are testament to for qualified talent.
as a result they rely on Michael page our commitment to delivering quality.
We have been voted International to provide creative and innovative solutions to one of Britains strongest B B Superbrands since 000 and meet their needs.
voted into the Sunday times 100 Best Companies to Work For since 00.
Whether a carefully targeted online campaign, a database search, or a desire to source candidates internationally, our growing reputation isnt confined to the uKs shores.
each solution is bespoke to achieve our clients objectives.
overseas, the Boston Business Journal has voted us one this consultative approach has been recognised by the level of the Best places to Work in Massachusetts, the hartford of repeat business Michael page receives as well as the ever Business Journal has voted us one of the Best places to increasing number of clients served.
Work in Connecticut and Crains has ranked us as the no.
1 executive recruiting Firm in new York City.
Quality underpins everything we do.
to deliver solutions consistently to such a high standard, we are fully committed While this external recognition is warmly welcomed, we are to the ongoing training of all of our staff and the continued also keen to celebrate some of our own internal initiatives.
roll-out of superior systems and processes.
Within our business we vigorously promote a culture of diversity.
our clients rely on us to propose candidates that have a Putting values that work at the heart of our business healthy range of attitudes and characteristics that fairly reflects there are five values that we believe contribute to our continued the society we live in.
to that end, we have our own internal success.
these attributes are not only the essence of our diversity policy that is communicated to all employees.
brand, but also our employees.
this ensures we offer our clients the best candidates on PrIde: We take great pride in what we do.
Were proud of the the basis of their relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities and Company we work for and, most of all, proud of the people that those candidates are drawn from diverse backgrounds.
We also provide training and focus-groups on diversity, as well PassIon: Its our passion to achieve the very best for our as participating in a number of external initiatives such as the employers Forum on age, Business in the Community, Global clients and candidates that drives us to outperform and beat the competition.
Graduates, race for opportunity and the Brokerage a charity whose aim is to increase the ambition and employability of resIlIence: We know that successful consultants are not young people in the 11 inner-city boroughs of london.
fazed by difficulty, but instead, turn it into an opportunity to demonstrate ability.
teaMwork: By teaming with each other and with clients we improve the quality of decision-making and increase the likelihood of success.
fun: though serious about our work, were extremely sociable and enjoy celebrating our success together.
