Chairmans statement I am encouraged by our performance over the past year.
We have The board would like to thank all our employees for their continued hard achieved good revenue growth and have increased our margin work and commitment throughout the past year.
We have experienced performance and profitability.
Micro Focus is now well positioned significant change, have emerged much stronger as a result, and have for the future.
The new executive board members of Stephen Kelly CEO, Nick Bray Our foundations are well established.
We remain focused on profitable CFO and Mike Shinya COO have the skills, experience, commitment revenue growth and I am confident in the Companys ability to continue and drive necessary to lead our business strongly forward.
Whilst we have to deliver value to all of its stakeholders.
refreshed and reinvigorated our Company with a number of new hires, the contribution of the existing executive talent within our Company has been considerable.
Stephen, Nick and Mike aside, the remaining six members of the senior executive team have more than 80 years combined experience with Micro Focus.
Our Company has a 30-year heritage and over 60% of our employees have been with us for more Kevin Loosemore Chairman than five years.
The combination of both new and existing talent within our Company provides us with a formidable leadership team and skills base.
I am also delighted to announce the appointment of Dr Paul Pester as a non-executive director with effect from 27 June 2007.
Dr Pester has extensive experience in the Financial Services sector and is an important addition to our board.
The speed of the recovery achieved over the past 12 months reflects well on the team and highlights the strong fundamentals of the business.
We have first rate technology solutions, a loyal and satisfied customer base and a market leading position in a substantial, sustainable and growing market place.
We now have the team to take full advantage of the market opportunity.
Revenue growth combined with a firm control of expenses has resulted in a significant increase in profitability.
We continue to make appropriate targeted investments in the areas of sales and marketing to support future growth whilst not sacrificing margins.
In line with our strategy, we have completed one acquisition during the year and a second in May 2007 designed to provide further opportunities for profitable growth.
We have firm financial foundations from which to grow and I am pleased to announce a 75% increase in the final dividend to 7 cents per share, giving a full year dividend of 10 cents per share.
We finished the financial year with cash of $85.0 million, and generated $58.2 million of cash from operations in the period.
Our business has a low capital requirement and our ability to generate cash is encouraging.
We have since put a significant proportion of this cash to good use with $40.7 million being used to fund the acquisition of Acucorp, Inc. post year-end.
