Chairmans Statement to deliver consistent year-on-year growth, THE FOURTH CONSECUTIVE YEAR OF reaching yet another record in 2007.
We ENCOURAGING REVENUE AND PROFIT expect it to serve as the foundation for the GROWTH.
THE 5-YEAR COMPOUND Groups future growth.
ANNUAL GROWTH RATE OF PROFIT The current economic environment will BEFORE TAX IS 21.4% provide opportunities for expansion.
Our business strategy has delivered a robust balance sheet, a strong asset position, low debt and impressive cash generation capability.
We are thus ideally positioned to capitalise swiftly on promising new Our 2007 results are in line with market opportunities.
expectations and mark the fourth consecutive year of encouraging revenue Financial Performance and profit growth.
The 5-year compound Profit before tax was 157.4m 2006: annual growth rate of profit before tax is 130.2m and basic earnings per share 21.4%.
The quality and location of our increased by 47.0% to 50.7p while headline hotels in gateway cities including London, earnings per share at 32.2p showed a New York and Singapore have been key 47.7% increase on the previous year 2006: to the overall strong performance and are 21.8p.
Headline profit before tax rose to expected to be the cornerstone of our 118.3m, an increase of 25.3% over 2006. continuing success.
Group RevPAR increased by 9.7% based on The Groups hotel operations have increased constant currency terms with double digit operating profit by a compound annual year-on-year growth in London, New York growth rate of 21.2% since 2003 while and Singapore.
the margin has increased from 13.0% to 21.6%.
This reflects the benefits of driving Dividend average rate and maintaining a tight control The Board is recommending a final dividend on costs.
of 10.42p per share which together with the interim dividend of 2.08p per share 2006: The Groups blueprint business strategy 2.08p, will bring the total dividend for 2007 developed in direct response to the worldto 12.50p.
This is an increase of 47.1% wide downturn in the hospitality industry of over the 8.50p for 2006 excluding a 4.00p 2003 has proved successful.
It was adopted special dividend.
As before, the dividend by the Board in 2004, updated in 2006 is based on the growth of profit before and has been used by the management tax balanced against the Groups future 18 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 operating needs and investment potential in non-executive Director.
Connals experience the current environment as outlined further during his past 45 years with the HSBC in the Looking Forward section.
Group is invaluable, particularly his expertise in the human resources field.
Management Structures and Systems These excellent results we have published Simultaneously, John Sclater retired from are a reflection of the successful the Board after more than ten years of loyal implementation of the business blueprint service.
John joined the Group immediately which we developed in 2004, fine tuned prior to its flotation in 1996.
These results also wish him every success and happiness in the reflect the strength of the Millennium & future.
Copthorne team rather than reliance on any one individual.
Key Operational Highlights Our hotel in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia has One consequence of this blueprint is that we been rebranded as a Grand Millennium have not been affected by the departure of Hotel following an extensive refurbishment some of our senior management team in the programme last year.
Our hotel in Oriental past six months.
A committed management Bay Wellington, New Zealand, has also been team and close adherence to the business rebranded, from a Kingsgate to a Copthorne blueprint, under the guidance of the Hotel.
Board has contributed to the continuing growth and success of the Group.
Our Also in 2007 we opened the Grand strong management team supported by Millennium Sukhumvit, a 325-room hotel effective teamwork has enabled us to steer in Bangkok, through our 50% owned joint a steady course and has kept us positive and venture.
The three other hotels that we in the right direction.
opened in 2007 are in Doha Qatar, Sharm el Sheikh Egypt and Phuket Thailand.
Mr Wongs comprehensive review of the management structures and The Group made its first foray into China systems has just been completed and in 2006 with the management contract for is now being considered by the Board.
the Millennium Hongqiao Hotel in Shanghai.
Meanwhile, we are continuing to improve 2008 will mark the opening of the Grand and streamline management and systems in Millennium Beijing, a 521-room 27-storey sales and marketing, cost management, hotel located in the heart of Beijings capital expenditure and will benefit from any financial and business district ahead of associated return on investment.
the Beijing Olympics in August.
A further two hotels operating under management On the human resources planning front, our contracts will also open in China during emphasis will be to identify candidates with 2008 in Chengdu and Wuxi.
Further hotel commitment to drive forward initiatives, openings are scheduled elsewhere for 2008 facilitated by the underlying management in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Kuwait, Sharm el systems so as to give the Group long term Sheikh Egypt and Sheffield UK.
competitiveness as an owner and operator of assets.
The total number of management contracts increased to 23 in 2007 from 21 in 2006.
Non-Executive Appointments and Retirement CDL Hospitality Trusts CDLHT, our In December 2007, we welcomed Connal 38.5% owned REIT associate, has made Rankin to the Board as an independent its second acquisition since its flotation Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 19 Chairmans Statement optimistic that the current environment will in 2006, being the Novotel Clarke Quay remain favourable to companies with strong Hotel in Singapore, purchased in June 2007 balance sheets and low gearing.
for S$219.6m 71.4m bringing its total portfolio of hotels to six.
Finally I would like to thank all our staff for their sterling efforts in 2007 and to We continue to evaluate our portfolio for express my sincere gratitude, as always, to improvement in order to remain competitive.
our shareholders, for demonstrating their confidence in the Group, for remaining Looking Forward committed to our future, and for their firm In the first four weeks of trading this belief in our ability to deliver further good year, the performance is in line with our results for 2008 and beyond.
expectations with RevPAR growth of 11.0%.
Given the current turmoil in the financial markets, we are cautiously optimistic that we will continue to deliver positive results drawing on our past experiences of weathering all kinds of storms.
Kwek Leng Beng Asia will continue to be a key region of the CHAIRMAN Groups future development plans for 2008, 19 February 2008 as demand for hotel accommodation there is expected to rise.
The region performed strongly in 2007 contributing 29.5% of the Groups 2007 revenue and 55.0% to the Groups 2007 operating profit before central costs respectively.
The construction of our 370-room limitedservice hotel in Singapore remains on target with an opening expected in the first half of 2009.
In view of the acute shortage of hotel rooms in Singapore, this new hotel is expected to bring significant benefits to the Group.
The Board deliberated on the appointment of a CEO.
In the process of its deliberations, the Board has decided to take a step back and determine what qualities we require in a CEO after we finalised the management structure.
In the meantime, the interim CEO Wong Hong Ren will continue to lead our business.
While it is too early to assess the repercussions of the slowdown in the US economy, the current credit-crunch and its impact on the global economy, my fellow Board members and I are cautiously 20 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
