Chairmans statement A new vision Sir Dominic Cadbury Sir Dominic Cadbury Chairman The Board has led the Company through a demanding year.
With no offer emerging in the offer period, we initiated far-reaching change from within, a process that has created a new direction and a new management team.
The second half of the year saw the Company take its first steps in this new direction, driven by a powerful focus on delivering results for customers and greater value for shareholders.
Here I highlight the key decisions and actions taken by the Board and the significant opportunities we see ahead.
2 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Misys generated revenue of 563m mind, we have begun to reposition the and operating profit of 37m this year.
portfolio around our core markets and Adjusted earnings per share for the year disposed of Sesame, our independent Misys has an opportunity were 14.6p.
The Board recommends a financial advisers support business, to to become a world leader final dividend of 4.71p per share, bringing Friends Provident plc on 8 June 2007. in its chosen markets, the full year dividend to 7.53p.
We also announced the sale of our creating significant value hospitals businesses to sharpen our focus for shareholders, customers A new direction on the higher growth ambulatory segment.
In last years annual report I noted that the Company had entered an offer period The Board The Board comprises six very and The Independent Committee of the e Board, led by me, would evaluate any xperienced independent non-executive offer that came forward.
On 29 September Directors together with the new Chief 2006 the Committee announced that it Executive and a new Chief Financial had not received an offer for the Company Officer, Jim Malone, who joined Misys and terminated the offer process with on 19 June 2007.
We also welcomed immediate effect.
Jeff Ubben to the Board on 16 January 2007 as a non-executive Director.
He As a result, Kevin Lomax stepped down brings exceptional experience both in as Chief Executive.
I would like to convey our industry and the financial markets.
our sincere appreciation to Kevin, who founded Misys in 1979 and built it into a The Board would like to express its business of substantial value with strong sadness at the death of George Chuck prospects.
Tom Skelton, Jasper McMahon Farr, who had served on the Board since and Howard Evans also stepped down as 1998.
We are grateful for his contribution Directors and the Board thanks them all and extend our deepest sympathy to his for their contributions over many years.
Tony Alexander stood down during the year and Dr Jrgen Zech will stand The Board maintained focus throughout down at the AGM in 2007.
We would like the offer period and was well placed to to thank them both for their contributions make a swift appointment to the Chief over many years.
Mike Lawrie brings a wealth of IT and software The Board also pays tribute to the industry expertise to Misys.
The Board loyalty shown by employees over the past has given the Chief Executive a real 12 months.
They have demonstrated an mandate for change.
We believe there is impressive commitment to their products an outstanding opportunity to take Misys and we have seen a growing sense of in a new direction, with a three to five excitement about the way their Company year timetable for the turnaround is now developing.
The strategic review carried out was expert and swift, and the new Looking ahead strategy announced in March was the The recent inclusion of a number of first step in this new direction.
major gl obal financial institutions on our shareholders register points to external Strong leadership recognition of the steps we are taking The strong foundations of the business, to turn Misys around.
Misys now has an the sc ale of the opportunity and Mike opportunity to become a world leader in Lawries track record have all served to its chosen markets, creating significant attract high quality leaders to Misys.
value for shareholders, customers and Each has invested in the Company and employees.
I look forward to reporting their financial incentivisation is aligned on the Companys progress over the with the interests of shareholders, next 12 months.
The new team has an opportunity rare in business to lead the Company forward unencumbered by previous management.
The Companys new direction builds on its strengths in banking and healthcare while placing very strong emphasis on meeting customers needs and focusing Sir Dominic Cadbury on our core markets.
With this focus in Chairman Misys plc Annual Report 2007 3 Chairmans statement
