Chairmans statement Mitchells & Butlers results this year reflect Since our foundation in 2003 the a strong financial performance and we are Board has had an absolute commitment Delivering pleased with the operational development to the creation and delivery of value to shareholder value across the business.
The executive team shareholders whether through organic has been particularly effective in growing growth, investment in the business for Since our foundation in sales and profits despite some significant high returns, the pursuit of value creative 2003, the Board has had economic and cost challenges, whilst also acquisitions, or a return to shareholders rapidly implementing the conversion of by way of dividends and share buybacks.
an absolute commitment the high quality Whitbread sites acquired to the creation and in July 2006.
We have extended our With this guiding principle in mind, and leadership of the eating-out market recognising that a consistently higher delivery of value to serving 107 million meals and generated valuation is placed by property investors shareholders whether significant drinks market share gains.
on our estate than is valued within the As a result, revenues have risen by 10%, current integrated model, the Board has through organic growth, operating profits by 11% and earnings per been investigating options for capturing investment in the share before exceptional items by 21%.
the value of the property estate for shareholders on a sustainable basis.
business for high returns, This performance has enabled the Board the pursuit of value to recommend a final dividend payment To that end, after a competitive process, of 10.0p per share, taking the total substantial progress was made in the creative acquisitions, or ordinary dividend for the year to 14.25p, summer on negotiating a joint venture a return to shareholders an increase of 16.3%.
This payment is transaction with R20 the investment additional to the Special Dividend of vehicle of Robert Tchenguiz.
In the by way of dividends 486m paid to shareholders in October final stage of this transaction, we entered and share buybacks.
2006 and reflects the strong growth into hedging agreements which were a in earnings per share, as well as our fundamental bank requirement to secure Roger Carr, commitment to a progressive policy the necessary financing arrangements Chairman for dividends.
for the joint venture and to achieve appropriate ratings from ratings agencies.
However, the sudden and unprecedented collapse of world debt markets rendered the joint venture undeliverable but left the hedging arrangements in place.
Driven by a most unusual mix of inflation and interest rate expectations, combined with limited liquidity, the cost of the Roger Carr Chairman 4 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review hedges at the year-end, although not In view of the focus on Mitchells & by Adam Fowle, previously Managing a cash item, had risen to 155m after tax.
Butlers real estate, we considered it was Director for the Acquired Sites and The hedging arrangements have been important to establish a current value of Business Development.
Adam has some retained as the Board remains committed our freehold and long leasehold properties 20 years experience in licensed retailing, to a property-based refinancing which and we requested Colliers CRE to update having joined Mitchells & Butlers in 1985. would utilise them, once debt markets our valuation as at 29 September 2007.
He was previously Managing Director have recovered.
The Board will continue The revised value of the estate in our of the Pubs & Bars division, becoming to balance the assessment of risk with books at 5bn represents a net increase a Retail Director at Sainsburys for two potential reward of this policy.
of 1.1bn compared to the historical years.
He rejoined Mitchells & Butlers accounting basis and provides a solid in 2005.
Whilst the Boards focus has been on the and up to date foundation for judging establishment of a property joint venture, the asset strength of the Group I welcome Adam to the Board and would alternative property based refinancing in turbulent times.
like to thank Tony for his exceptional structures remain under consideration.
contribution to the Company over the last In this context, the board has received Because pubs are specific use assets, 12 years.
His vision and drive have been a proposal from R20 in respect of a it is the operational success of the business instrumental in the development of our demerged Real Estate Investment Trust which has been the primary factor in highly successful pub restaurant brands.
REIT structure, which includes R20 growing the value of our freehold property I wish him every happiness in his procuring a fixed price underwriting for and which has also enabled us to return retirement.
in the region of 25% of the REIT equity.
over 1.1bn in cash to shareholders The attractiveness and feasibility of this since demerger in 2003, over and above Looking forward, 2008 will undoubtedly proposal is being explored.
This performance be a more challenging year, with the structure would have to meet the Boards has been driven by our operational teams, uncertain outlook for consumer requirement for an appropriate balance who I believe are collectively the best in confidence and the first year of the to optimise the value of both demerged the industry.
I would like to thank them smoking ban.
However, I am confident companies as independent entities.
all for their perseverance, flexibility and that a clear management strategy for hard work during the year.
competitive out-performance based on The Board will continue to review high quality brands, excellent sites and alternative structures that would There has been one change to the strong operating skills will underpin the demonstrably create value from the Board announced during the second half continuing progress of the Company.
property, whilst providing an attractive of the year.
Tony Hughes, 59, stepped long term business model for the down as Managing Director, Restaurants operating company.
on 1 October 2007 since when he has been assisting in the handover of his role and the further development of food capabilities in the business.
He will retire from the Board of the Company on 31 December 2007.
He is succeeded Financial trends Revenue m Operating profit m Final dividend per share p Notes EBITDA, operating profit and profit before tax are all stated 2005 1,631m 2005 289m 2005 7.55p before exceptional items.
