MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 6 sustainability This has been a year of strong performance at MITIE and the Group is in great shape to sustain its excellent track record.
The Group celebrates its 20th anniversary in May 2007, and over the past twelve months we have successfully managed the transition to a new senior management team under Chief Executive, Ruby McGregor-Smith.
Chairmans statement Rubys appointment marks a new era for the Group.
She has clearly demonstrated her commitment to MITIE as well as the ability to take on this new role in her four years with the Company, rstly as Group Finance Director and latterly as Chief Operating officer.
Her new role as Chief Executive is providing important continuity and strong leadership for the Group.
MITIE has a reputation for consistent sustainable growth.
Our revenue and profit have grown in every one of our 20 years, delivering an annual compound growth rate in revenue, both from acquisitions and organic growth, of 41.4% per annum.
I am pleased that our record of growth continues.
Results Revenue in the year to 31 March 2007 rose to 1,228.8m 2006: 935.6m, an increase of 31.3% on continuing operations, while profit before tax and intangible amortisation from continuing operations rose by 14.8% to 58.2m 2006: 50.7m.
Basic earnings per share EPS increased by 21.4% to 11.9p 2006: 9.8p, while EPS pre-amortisation and discontinued activities rose by 16.0% to 12.3p 2006:10.6p.
Dividend The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.7p per share, which gives a total of 5.1p 2006: 4.3p for the year.
This represents an increase of 18.6%.
We have adopted a dividend cover metric based on post tax earnings before amortisation and integration costs per share to ensure that dividend payments to Shareholders track the underlying profitability of our business.
Our dividend cover is set at 2.5 times on this adjusted measure of EPS.
Our dividend payment timetable has been brought forward and the final dividend will be paid on 3 August 2007 to Shareholders on the Register at the close of business on 6 July 2007.
Over the last five years, our annual compound dividend growth has been 28.0%.
Share buyback programme Although we have not bought any shares this year under this programme, we will be seeking to renew the authority granted by our Shareholders to purchase up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 26 July 2007.
Acquisitions The year to 31 March 2007 has not been a year of external acquisitions but one that has largely been spent integrating the businesses we bought in the previous year.
I am pleased to be able to report that the integration has gone very well, and that the enlarged Security business 6 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 MIT1-018 p1-36 v15 060607 8 6 07 11:04 Page 7 We have a very able and experienced management team.
is winning new contracts and experiencing good levels April 2006.
Graeme Potts and Roger Matthews were of organic growth.
It has performed well and we have appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 27 July 2006 achieved the synergy savings that we anticipated.
They all bring considerable relevant experience to the MITIE Board.
The Group continues to seek acquisitions that contribute to the development of its capabilities.
In April 2007, MITIE We now have over 44,000 employees and I would like completed the acquisition of the specialist plumbing, to thank them all for their efforts during this financial year heating and mechanical services business, Robert Prettie and throughout our 20-year history.
While it is important & Co Limited Robert Prettie.
This business focuses on the that the Group has a quality leadership team, it is the housing market in the Midlands and Yorkshire and adds everyday application of our motivated employees to the capabilities of our growing Property Services who deliver our services that enables MITIE to satisfy organisation.
its customers and to succeed as a business.
In line with our business model, we purchased the Corporate governance minority interests in eight MITIE businesses for a total Good corporate governance is essential for ensuring the maximum purchase consideration of 4.1m.
In addition, future growth and success of MITIE.
The Board recognises we successfully implemented Second Generation Equity its responsibilities and conducts itself appropriately in Plans in Property Services and Landscaping.
The Property order to protect the interests of all MITIE stakeholders.
Services scheme required Shareholder approval which was granted in July 2006.
Corporate responsibility CR CR is embedded within our strategy.
For the second year People in succession therefore, MITIE is publishing a separate Ian Stewart was one of the founding members of MITIE report that will also be available on our corporate and has successfully led the Group as Chief Executive website, and which expands on areas already covered over the past six years, guiding it through a period of in this Annual Report.
I would like to thank him on behalf of the Board for his exceptional It focuses on MITIEs efforts in developing skills and contribution and am pleased that the Board will continue protecting the environment and is structured to describe to benefit from his sound advice as Non-Executive our successes with our own people in the workplace, Deputy Chairman.
our work with customers to deliver their CR strategies in their marketplace, our efforts with local communities Sir John Jennings was Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and, most importantly, our progress in the area of and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director until his health and safety.
retirement after nine years on 31 March 2007, and I would like to thank him for his substantial and long-standing Outlook contribution to MITIEs success.
MITIE is a Group that has a passion for providing quality services to its customers.
It is the energy, drive and Cullum McAlpine, who has served as one of our enthusiasm of our people that makes MITIE different.
Non-Executive Directors for over three years, has been There are considerable opportunities available to MITIE.
appointed to the role of Senior Independent NonWe have great plans for the future and I am looking Executive Director.
In addition, David Jenkins, who forward to our development in the years ahead.
We has been a Non-Executive Director since early 2006 have a very able and experienced management team has taken over Sir Johns role as Chairman of the that will take the business forward and I know that they Nominations Committee.
will do so with the same energy and determination Colin Acheson who is the Director responsible for that has made the Group what it is today.
Engineering Services will be retiring from MITIE in March We have a very clear strategy.
We are nancially strong 2008: he remains as Chairman of the Engineering division and we are in a position to continue our excellent until this date.
An internal successor, Mike Tivey, will lead progress.
our Engineering Services business going forward.
Colin has worked in our Engineering business since 1989 David C Ord and has made a major contribution to its growth.
I would Chairman like to thank him for all of his efforts.
I would like to welcome to the Board three new Directors who have been appointed during the year.
Suzanne Baxter was appointed as Group Finance Director in MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
