06 Annual Report 2007 Our Business www.
com Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a strong set of results for the period ending 31 December 2007.
Revenues for the year grew by 55.9% to 162.9m with significant growth across all areas of the internet business.
This year has begun positively and we are confident that our business is sufciently robust and diversied for the Group to continue to prosper during the so called credit crunch.
It has been a year of great change and Adjusted EBITDA increased by 57.2% to growth for the Group, culminating with the 52.9m which was slightly in excess of otation of the Company on the London revenue growth.
The adjusted cost base Stock Exchange on 31 July 2007 and strong increased from 31.3m to 57.3m with the revenue and profit growth throughout main increases from television advertising the year.
The shareholding structure was which rose 12.2m over last year and revised earlier in the year with Simon Nixon adjusted employee costs which grew acquiring the bulk of Duncan Camerons by 6.6m to 22.8m as we continued to stake.
This facilitated the subsequent develop our product ranges.
otation which leaves Simon with 54.5% of the Company.
Over the next year the Board will be focused upon improving the process and I became Chairman in June ahead of the structure within the Group, working closely otation.
Michael Wemms, who is our with the Executive Management Team.
Senior Independent Non-Executive This will ensure we have the right balance Director and chairs the Remuneration between entrepreneurial culture and Committee, also joined me prior to the operational efficiency.
Rob Rowley joined the Board in September to chair our Audit Committee.
This year has begun positively and we are Both are hugely experienced businessmen confident that our business is sufciently with many years of public company service.
robust and diversied for the Group to Our challenge is to support Simon and his continue to prosper during the so called team as the Group grows and makes the credit crunch.
This confidence underpins transition from private to public.
Greater the Boards decision to recommend a final size and complexity inevitably requires dividend of 1.63p per ordinary share, to be more process and structure but at the paid on 30 April 2008 to ordinary same time the entrepreneurial spirit at the shareholders on the register of members heart of the Groups success must not be on 25 March 2008.
The Group did not pay stied and must ourish.
The new Board an interim dividend in 2007. has made a good start, addressing the issues in an open and constructive way.
The new Board has settled in well and I would like to thank my colleagues for their I am pleased to report a strong set of contributions.
More importantly, on behalf results for the period ending 31 December of the Board, I would like to thank our 2007.
Revenues for the year grew by 55.9% Executive Management Team and all of to 162.9m with significant growth across the Groups employees for their hard work all areas of the internet business.
This strong result is to underpinned by growth in the number of their credit and gives us all confidence for visitors and an increase in the revenues the future.
generated by each visitor across each of the internet verticals that the Group operates within.
Visitor growth has been in part driven by a Gerald Corbett rigorous television advertising campaign.
Chairman This has signicantly improved brand recognition and encouraged consumers to visit our website directly, thereby improving gross margins.
Revenue per visitor has increased from a continual improvement in the product sets we offer and generally from consumers increased confidence in transacting online as a result of increased broadband penetration.
