CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DURING THE COURSE OF 2007, EACH DIVISION HAS BEEN IMPLEMENTING OUR FIVE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR IMPROVED BUSINESS PERFORMANCE WITH STRONG RESULTS DELIVERED.
12 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview higher margin segments.
Furthermore, Mark Lejman, formerly Chief Executive this positive shift in our mix through of the Carbon Division, stepped down After a period of substantial change organic means has been accelerated on 2nd January, 2008.
He led the including a bid approach during 2006, by the two significant acquisitions which Division between March 2004 and 2007 has been our first full year of we were able to announce in 2007.
January 2008, overseeing a period implementing the new management of substantial change during which teams profitable growth strategy.
Acquisitions time good progress was made, both Towards the end of 2006, Mark In August, we were pleased to organically and through acquisition.
Robertshaw set out his vision for announce the acquisition of a 49% We thank him for his commitment Morgan Crucible to become a stake in the UK-based composite and contribution.
world-leading advanced materials materials company NP Aerospace.
During the course of 2007, Dividend The transaction valued NP Aerospace each Division has been implementing at 71 million and has already had a Given the strong financial performance our five strategic priorities for improved positive earnings impact for Morgan of your Company in 2007, the Board business performance, with strong Crucible shareholders.
NPs expertise has proposed a final dividend of results already delivered.
and strong market position in ballistic 4.5 pence per Ordinary share, an Mark Robertshaw talks about the protection with the UK Ministry of increase of 50% on the final dividend performance of each Division in detail Defence will further enhance our declared for 2006.
This brings the total in his statement so I would like to draw Carbon Divisions expanding presence dividend for the year to 6.75 pence per your attention to some highlights.
From in the defence market.
share 2006: 4.5 pence and reflects an organic perspective, the Thermal the Boards confidence in the financial In December we were able to Ceramics business has been the health of Morgan Crucible.
announce a second acquisition for stand-out performer of our Divisions in the year: the ceramics businesses of People 2007 with revenue growth of c. 11% on Carpenter Technology Corporation for a constant currency basis and with In my first full year as Chairman it has a total enterprise value of c73 million.
strong improvement in both profits and become clear to me that excellent These businesses have a particularly profit margins.
This has been driven by people are at the heart of all Morgan strong presence in the attractive demand in emerging market Crucible does.
We have built strong aerospace and power generation infrastructure projects in countries such relationships with committed suppliers, end markets and we believe will fit very as China, India and the Gulf region.
our customers and with our investors.
well with the process and materials These include large projects in the But it is the dedication and performance know-how of our Technical Ceramics chemical and petroleum industries of our 9,712 employees that has been Division of which they will become along with robust demand in iron and the driving force of the success of 2007. a part.
This acquisition should be steel and power generation markets.
We are passionately committed to completed by the end of March 2008.
Growth and investment in our Asian finding, keeping and developing the businesses continued during 2007 Board and management changes right people as one of the Groups key leaving us well placed to capitalise strategic priorities.
We have a strong Our Senior Independent Director, on the ongoing shift in global demand senior team, enviable market positions Joe MacHale, plans to step down after towards these dynamic, high and a clear strategy for the business.
Add to that the tenacity and drive of Director and Chairman of the Audit our highly valued employees across The Carbon Division showed pleasing Committee since December 2003, the Group and I believe we can look progress overall in 2007 in both sales Joe has made a substantial contribution to the future with confidence.
and profits with particularly good to Morgan Crucible.
We are sad to Tim Stevenson performance in the Americas and see him go.
The Armour business within In Joes place, we are delighted to Carbon also had another good year welcome Andrew Given, who joined the in 2007 despite some one-off production board in December 2007, and will chair issues in the third quarter.
He is the senior our Technical Ceramics Division made Non-Executive Director and Chairman good strides in both profits and profit of the Audit Committee at VT Group plc margins in 2007. and brings extensive experience in Overall, one of the most encouraging manufacturing and technology to the areas of progress for the Group Board.
He has previously held senior during the year was the continued management or board positions at diversification of sales and profits away Logica CMG plc, Plessey, Nortel from more economically cyclical Networks, Spectris plc and Spirent plc.
end-markets towards higher growth, CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 13
