02 Introduction Chairmans Report and Accounts 2007 Summary Mouchel Parkman plc It has been another really good year for the Chairmans Group.
Once again we have delivered an excellent Summary performance, underpinned by some high-prole contract wins but above all by the ingenuity, talent and sheer hard work of our employees.
We are very proud of them, of our resulting financial and business achievements and of the quality of the relationships that we have continued to build with a wide range of clients and partners.
This years progress meant that we achieved pretty well all of the objectives set out in our first corporate plan, drawn up at the time of the merger in the summer of 2003.
The Group has doubled since then.
In 2006 07, we consolidated our presence in almost all of our chosen markets and, with the potentially transformational acquisition of HBS Business Services Group Limited HBS in August 2007, we entered some important new markets.
Our corporate plan sets out our aspiration to double again by 2012.
Such ambition is founded first and foremost on the opportunities that we see ahead for the Group: but also on the quality of people, infrastructure and systems that we continue to put in place in order to run a business growing at a rate of 20% to 25% per annum.
Performance Revenue in 2006 07 reached a record level of 448.4 million: underlying Richard Benton operating profit increased by 23% to 33.0 million and adjusted earnings Chairman per share increased by 18%.
At 7.4%, operating margins continued to make progress towards our medium-term target of 8%.
Our ability to win work has again been demonstrated to the full, with a win-rate at the top end of our target range of 33% to 40% of bids by value.
In August 2007 our forward order book and bidding pipeline stood at 2.2 billion and 2.5 billion respectively, after allowing for the impact of HBS.
These gures highlight the excellent visibility of our future earnings, the strong platform that we have created for further growth and also the scale of the opportunities that are open to us.
Strategy The strategy that we have focused on in recent years will remain unchanged going forward.
We continue to believe that the UK public sector, together with those industries that are regulated by Government, offer us sufficient opportunity to realise our goals.
We are however slowly beginning to consider additional avenues of growth that complement this strategy, including work with some private sector clients and possibly in selected overseas locations.
In all of our chosen markets, clients are looking to place more work with fewer suppliers for longer periods of time.
As this consolidation, which involves both horizontal and vertical market integration, continues we will progressively extend the range of capabilities that we can offer, either through joint venture and partnership or through acquisition.
03 Introduction Chairmans Report and Accounts 2007 Summary Mouchel Parkman plc Today we are a trusted partner, providing a mix of consulting and Immediately after our financial year end, in August 2007, we acquired business solutions to the people and communities that our direct clients business process outsourcing specialist, HBS.
This move is in line are there to serve.
For example, we work in joint venture to provide a with our strategy for horizontal integration, opening up a new range complete highway management service for road users in London and of services which are complementary to those we already offer and for the South West: we provide bundles of highways, property, ICT and the same principal client base of UK local authorities.
Since its foundation business process outsourcing services for residents of local authorities in 1999, HBS has undergone successive periods of rapid growth, in the North West: we work with partners to design and install new stabilisation and recovery.
On acquisition the business was not profitable.
signalling equipment for the benefit of travellers on the London We are nevertheless confident that it is a business positioned in Underground: and we have recently been selected preferred bidder a high-growth market and will respond very favourably to being part by the London Borough of Hackney to be their long-term partner, of Mouchel.
This belief is strengthened further by the revenue synergies improving facilities for school-children under the Building Schools we anticipate in the local authority bundled services market, by our for the Future programme.
track record of successful acquisition integration and by our ability to identify savings in HBS operating costs of at least 2.5 million Business environment per annum.
The process of transition and growth is however unlikely Society is changing: and so are the demands placed on our business.
to be complete until well into 2008, with consequent impact on Group The public expects more from our transport systems, in terms of margins for the year to July 2008. reliability, predictability and the provision of information that is timely and accurate.
Charging for road space could quite soon become a People reality in our major conurbations after decades of debate.
Climate Mouchel was this year ranked as the second largest employer of 1 change, sustainability and carbon management are issues demanding technical staff in the UK engineering consultancy sector.
Staff numbers policies and incentives that inuence not just good practice but also grew by 37% to 8,168 at the year end.
The subsequent acquisition day-to-day behaviours.
Our childrens education needs to be in modern of HBS has further increased our headcount to very nearly 11,000. facilities which are appropriate to our changing climate, to more exible methods and to a more diverse population.
There is significant and There is a strong sense of pride in an organisation that we think places growing demand for more affordable and more accessible housing, its people first.
We want to be a great company and to be known as creating pressures on the availability of land, services and infrastructure.
a great place to work, a place where people can make a difference to And advances in technology are changing the way we all live and work, society and have an impact on the communities where they live and particularly in terms of the need for greater exibility.
This year weve put considerable effort into those things we think will make us a great company.
So, as well as providing challenging As a result of these pressures, our business, and the solutions we careers for the many thousands we employ, we rate job security and develop, are today very different from those we have offered in the past.
stability amongst our most important measures of success.
We also The people we employ are different too.
The acquisitions we have made think it is very important that everyone and we celebrate the fact in 2006 07 are a direct consequence of these changes.
We also believe that we employ an extremely diverse population enjoys working that the time is right to reect these changes in the way we are seen at Mouchel, not only deriving job satisfaction but also having fun.
by staff, partners and clients.
All of our people have again done a great job for the Group this year, Brand regularly giving their discretionary time to help our clients and the In future, we will be known as Mouchel and intend to seek the communities they serve, often under exceptional circumstances.
permission of shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM We have supported the residents of ooded housing estates in to rename to Mouchel Group plc.
The creation of Mouchel Parkman Gloucestershire: we have provided relief accommodation for children in 2003 was the right way of demonstrating the importance that both whose schools have been closed by re damage in Kent: and we have parties brought to what was very nearly a merger of equals.
The merger organised drinking water for drivers queued on the M25 in extreme is long behind us now.
The rather long and unwieldy company name hot weather.
Without this dedication, commitment and willingness to has, however, not helped to establish our prole and often this has go the extra mile, we would not have come anywhere near realising been abbreviated to MP.
The change to Mouchel retains our history the level of performance that we have reported this year.
and heritage, is unique and differentiated, and offers us the chance to re-emphasise our positioning in the market and highlight everything Outlook that is distinctive about the Group and the services we now offer.
We are content with our progress this year.
But we also know we have lots still to achieve.
We are excited by our prospects and by the Organic growth, alliances and acquisitions challenges of continuing to build this business until Mouchel is number This has been a year of growth on every front for Mouchel.
Over the one in all of its chosen markets.
We are facing the future with what we last five years we have achieved sustained growth in the range of 20% consider to be well-placed confidence and optimism.
to 25% per annum and this remains our target for the next five years.
We think organic growth offers us growth potential of 10% to 15% per annum, as a result of market growth, ination and increasing market share.
So acquisitions account for the balance.
Acquisitions contributed some 27 million to our revenues in 2006 07.
Three acquisitions were completed on the same day in November 2006 when we bought Hornagold & Hills, Ewan Group plc Ewan, and Trafc Richard Benton Support Limited TSL.
These deals strengthened our service and Chairman product offering respectively in project management and management 31 October 2007 consultancy, water engineering and parking and congestion management all areas where we want to expand and develop in response to changes in the business environment.
Note 1 New Civil Engineer Consultants File 2007.
