Following a year of transition, Northern Foods is a simpler, leaner and more competitive business Anthony Hobson Chairman 02 Chairmans review Northern Foods plc Chairmans review Performance Your Board Overview In 2006 07, we achieved continuing underlying Significant change in the business has been This has been a year of transition revenue growth of 3.1% while continuing accompanied by change in your Board.
A year ago we profit before tax rose by 21.2%.
The groups Chief Executive since 2004, Pat ODriscoll, set out our plans to create a focused return on net assets RONA increased by stepped down from the Board on 1 February 1.2%, as we made good progress in reducing 2007.
She led the business through a period and competitive company, capable our asset base and in generating returns from of transformation, beginning the process of driving improved shareholder our investments.
Our pension deficit has of transition to a lower cost, more effective returns.
We proposed a radical been substantially reduced and net debt more and efficient business.
This culminated than halved, creating the capacity to consider in the successful delivery of our disposal restructure of Northern Foods careful and selected future investment.
I would like to create a strong financial and to express my appreciation, and that operational platform for future During the past year we have taken decisive of the Board, to Pat for her leadership of, action to focus the group and establish a and dedication to, Northern Foods.
I am pleased to report that strong financial and operational foundation we have made measurable progress on which to build future profitable growth.
Pat also created a strong management against our stated objectives.
We have disposed of underperforming and team.
From this team, she was succeeded Our share price has reflected this non-core assets: enhanced cash flow: rebased as Chief Executive by Stefan Barden, with the dividend to reflect the size of the new effect from 5 February 2007.
Stefan joined progress, as we delivered a total group: and reduced the burden of corporate Northern Foods in January 2006 as Executive shareholder return of 29.7% during central costs, whilst ensuring effective Director of the Chilled division, latterly the year ended 31 March 2007. governance processes lie at the heart of assuming additional responsibility for everything we do.
The total cost of restructuring the Bakery division.
Stefan has extensive In January 2007, we successfully concluded was 55.4m, resulting in a loss for the year experience in the food industry, most the disposal of five businesses chilled Pastry, of 22.5m.
recently as Managing Director of Heinz UK Cakes, Speciality bread, Flour milling and chilled and Ireland from 2003 to 2005.
These businesses represented The markets in which we operate remain Northern Foods, he has begun the process of 40% of the prior years group revenue but fiercely competitive.
Our customers require delivering a step change in the performance a contributed profit from operations of only exceptional service and product quality and of our Chilled business.
His deep knowledge 1.3m for the year.
We concluded that these our cost base is under continual pressure from of the food industry, combined with his businesses were not core and that other rising input prices.
Future progress will depend understanding of Northern Foods, means owners had a better opportunity to achieve on leveraging the heritage, innovation and he is well positioned to deliver value for an appropriate return.
The disposals were operational skills of our business to drive our customers and our shareholders alike.
achieved ahead of time and in excess of our selective growth and better profitability.
We also delivered the first have talented people and the right businesses We also welcomed Tony Illsley to the Board benefits from our Chilled division simplification to deliver on our objectives.
Our focus is on in September 2006 as a non-executive programme.
We have realised a 9m saving building performance: delivering outstanding director.
Tonys experience of the food sector, in the first twelve months of our two year food and excellent customer service: introducing including roles as President of Pepsi Cola central cost reduction programme: and exciting innovation: and continuing to deliver International Asia Pacific and President embedded a rigorous culture of cash and rigorous cash management.
This will ensure of Walkers Snack Foods, has proved of capital management, generating 83.0m that we deliver value for our shareholders.
immense value to the Board.
Dividend Summary Northern Foods now comprises a portfolio Following the rebasing of the final dividend Northern Foods is a simpler, leaner and more of five focused businesses Ready meals, last year to reflect the scale of the new group, competitive business.
We are building upon Sandwiches & Salads, Frozen, Biscuits and the Board is recommending a full year dividend a solid foundation, with a strong focus Puddings operating across our Chilled, of 4.25 pence per share 2005 06: 4.25 pence on our retained businesses and a talented Frozen and Bakery divisions in both the per share, including a final dividend of management team in place.
We have much retailer own brand ROB and branded arenas.
work to do, but we are totally committed Each business unit has real potential for future to realising the potential of this business performance improvement and is led by a Our employees for our employees, our customers and our strong management team with a clear vision This has been a year of very significant shareholders.
Whilst performance change for our business.
I would like to extend in some areas, particularly Biscuits, has the Boards thanks and appreciation to all Anthony Hobson disappointed, progress in the year, particularly Northern Foods employees, both those who 30 May 2007 in the Chilled division, demonstrates the continue to work in our retained businesses ability of these teams to create value for and corporate centre, as well as those who our customers and shareholders.
have left to work elsewhere.
The smooth and efficient transition of our disposed businesses to new owners has only been possible through the collective effort of many people.
The foundation we have built during the year is strong and a credit to the team we now have in place.
Northern Foods plc Chairmans review 03
