CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 0405 This is the first year we are reporting against the targets set out in In Spain, we have achieved another year of significant growth, with the THE LOW PENETRATION RATES OF RENTAL our new strategy for growth announced in January 2006. fleet now exceeding 55,000 vehicles, up 17% over the prior year.
Coupled with operational improvements, this has increased the operating margin In the UK the key elements of that strategy, namely the reorganisation IN BOTH THE UK AND SPANISH COMMERCIAL to 22.4% 2006 20.9%.
The Spanish business now produces 35% of the of the management structure, growth through a significant acquisition, Groups profit from operations.
and the introduction of fleet management, have all been achieved.
In VEHICLE PARCS GIVE US CONFIDENCE THAT Spain, we have achieved continued strong organic fleet growth and have Having created a unified management structure, we expect to be operating acquired the remaining 51% of the equity in Record Rent a Car S. A. on a common IT platform in Spain during this financial year and thereafter THERE STILL EXISTS PLENTY OF OPPORTUNITY Record, our second commercial vehicle rental business in Spain.
will begin to merge those activities where further synergies can be obtained.
THIS LOW PENETRATION RATE As a result, earnings per share increased by 24%, comfortably achieving Contrary to comment in the UK press in April 2007 we have seen no our target of double-digit growth.
evidence of any reduction in demand from our customers in the Spanish ALSO EXISTS THROUGHOUT EUROPE AND construction sector.
As explained in the Operational Review we would Since 1999, when we announced our first strategy for growth focused not expect a change in the fortunes of the real estate market to affect OFFERS US THE PROSPECT OF EXPANDING OUR solely on vehicle rental, the business has seen earnings per share our business materially since we have a very low exposure to this area.
grow from 19.1p to 76.1p, a compound annual growth rate of 19%.
We have moved forward with our search for new territories and are now The results for the year are summarised below: confident that we will find an appropriate opportunity in line with the Group revenue increased by 41% to 526.5m 2006 372.6m timescale set out in our strategic plan.
Whilst it will not be of the same size as Fualsa when we made our first investment in July 2002, we would Underlying profit before tax for the year increased by 29% expect our flexible rental product to enable us to grow strongly, albeit from to 79.3m 2006 61.3m a lower base.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 24%.
Following his retirement in November 2006 on grounds of ill health it Based on these results, the Board has recommended to shareholders was with sadness that we learnt of the death of Martin Ballinger, our a final dividend of 15.5p per share making a total dividend for the year former Chairman, in February 2007.
In his short time with us Martin of 25.5p, which is covered three times and represents an increase of made a significant contribution to Northgates continued development.
The dividend will be payable on 28 September Our thoughts then, and now, are with his family.
2007 to those shareholders on the register on 24 August 2007.
The UK business has seen the expected benefits flow through from the CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK acquisition of Arriva Vehicle Rental AVR in 2006, with the high level The new financial year has started well and the Group is performing in line of customer retention being particularly pleasing.
The streamlining of the with the Boards expectations.
The low penetration rates of rental in both management structure which began in May 2006 has also produced some the UK and Spanish commercial vehicle parcs give us confidence that early gains, as evidenced by the improvement in vehicle utilisation to 91% there still exists plenty of opportunity for growth.
External factors have been generally favourable with a more also exists throughout Europe and offers us the prospect of expanding our benign hire rate environment than the previous year and a buoyant used operations into further jurisdictions, a process that we expect to commence vehicle market.
Fleet growth has been modest as a result of the internal within the coming year.
restructuring within the business and a focus on maintaining hire rates in the face of competitive pricing.
This modest growth has been supplemented Philip Rogerson by an improvement in utilisation referred to above that has assisted in Chairman increasing the number of vehicles on hire by 3% since the start of the financial year.
The overall outcome for the UK is that the rental operating margin has improved to 21.1% 2006 20.6%.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
