5 Chairmans Statement INTRODUCTION It is with great pleasure that I present Northgate Information Solutions' annual report for 2006 07, my first as Chairman of the Group.
This has been a highly-significant year in the development of the Group.
We achieved a strong performance in key parts of the business and made a number of earnings-enhancing acquisitions to develop our position and broaden our range of products and services in the Human Resources HR and Public Sector markets.
Financial Results ARINSO Revenue increased by 6% during the year from 332.7 Since the period-end, we have also announced the million to 351.7 million from a combination of organic acquisition of ARINSO, a leading independent global growth and the contribution of the acquisitions made provider of SAP-based HR services and solutions.
Adjusted operating profit was 60.1 2007, Northgate announced that it had entered into an million, an increase of 9% from the 55.0 million reported agreement with the majority shareholder to acquire, subject last year.
Profit before tax grew by 4% from 30.6 million to to shareholder approval, a 60.43% interest in ARINSO for 31.9 million, whilst adjusted basic earnings per share rose 18.75 in cash and 5 new Northgate shares for each by 13.1% to 6.90p.
At an EGM held on 15 June 2007, shareholders formally approved the acquisition which I am delighted to announce that, following on from our enabled Northgate to take a controlling interest and then return to the dividend list last year, the Board has subsequently launch a mandatory public offer to acquire the recommended the payment of a final dividend of 0.48p, remaining shares in ARINSO.
This offer process is expected making 0.72p for the year, which will be presented for to close by September 2007. approval at the Annual General Meeting on 27 September 2007.
This represents an increase year on year of 20%.
ARINSO is a global HR servicing and` outsourcing provider with over 2,600 employees operating in 27 countries across 5 continents.
It has experienced compound growth over the last five years of 16% per annum and continues to operate in high-growth markets.
In the quarter to 31 March 2007, the business grew revenue by 20.0% to 56.7 million and operating profit by 25.4% to 5.2 million.
ARINSO holds highly-valuable intellectual property in the form of deep seated knowledge of human resource management, as well as an outstanding relationship with SAP and understanding of how SAP software can be used to support client services and systems.
ARINSO provides services in the areas of HR Business Consulting, Technology Integration and HR Outsourcing.
It has provided services to 100 of the global Fortune 500 companies.
1 Adjusted operating profit is stated before significant restructuring, one-off incident, property provisions, amortisation of customer relationships and option costs.
The Directors consider that the adjustments better demonstrate the performance of the Group.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC THE COMBINATION OF ARINSO WITH NORTHGATES EXISTING HR DIVISION WILL CREATE A WORLD-LEADING HR SOFTWARE AND BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING OPERATION 7 Chairmans Statement continued ARINSO continued Following the completion of the Share Purchase Agreement The combination of ARINSO with Northgates existing HR with ARINSO, their Chief Executive, Jos Sluys, has been division will create a world-leading HR software and invited to join the Board of Northgate and will take a business process outsourcing operation which will be well leading role in the development of strategic client accounts.
positioned to address the $15 billion worldwide HR business process outsourcing market.
This combination will provide a I would like to thank the management, the staff and my substantial global platform from which Northgate can grow fellow Directors for their enormous contribution to the the enlarged business by using ARINSOs development, sales Group's continued success and development this year.
and support network to adapt and market ResourceLink to new international customers.
Outlook Looking forwards, Northgate is in a strong position.
The Northgate will also continue to promote ARINSOs euHReka Group has made a good start to the current financial year.
global platform based on SAP, allowing Northgate to service When completed, the combination of ARINSO with our clients wanting to adopt a global ERP software solution.
Our existing HR business will transform Northgate into a worldrecent experience of international sales has proved that leading HR software and business process outsourcing there is an enormous potential market for clients wanting to operation that can serve the HR needs of corporate clients adopt a best of breed HR software strategy as well as those on 5 continents from the largest multi nationals to SMEs.
We believe that by continuing to pursue our strategy to The Board expects the acquisition to be earnings-enhancing become a leading player in providing software, outsourcing before amortisation of intangibles, options costs and oneand IT services to the human resources, local government off items in the financial year 2008 9 which will be the first and public safety markets, Northgate is well positioned for full financial year following its completion.
Board and Management This year has seen a number of changes to the Northgate Board.
In September 2006, I joined as Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate.
I succeeded Nick Irens as Chairman in the New Year.
Nick's commitment to Northgate's success over the past seven years has been outstanding and he has Ron Mackintosh played an important role in the transformation of the business.
Chairman 4 July 2007 In addition, Mr Andrew Robb joined as a Non-Executive Director and a member of our Audit Committee in February 2007.
Andrew was Group Finance Director of Pilkington plc for 12 years and, prior to that, was Group Finance Director of P&O Steam Navigation Co.
He is also Chairman of the Pilkington Pension Scheme Trustees.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a NonExecutive Director of Corus Group plc, Kesa Electricals plc, Laird Group plc and Paypoint plc.
We are delighted to have the benefit of his extensive financial and international business experience.
