Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 02 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Chairmans statement As the business goes forward, our priority is long term sustainability and we all know we must do everything we can to achieve this for the business, our investors, customers and the environment.
Throughout my career I have been interested in the and its strong performance, NWLs board decided not to environment and public health, and have been in no increase prices by the amount allowed by the regulator at doubt about the central importance of water: for our the last price review.
The benefit to customers from 2007 health, and for our social and environmental well-being.
to 2010 will be around 22 million.
I was, therefore, delighted to join the NWG Board in 2003 and my very positive initial view of the Company has been NWGs revenue was 633.5 million for the year to confirmed as I deepen my understanding of its values, 31 March 2007 and represents a 7.1% increase on what it does and the way it operates.
I became Chairman of NWG and of its core water services Profit on ordinary activities before interest for the year business, NWL, in July 2006, and look forward to guiding was 258.2 million 2006: 236.2 million.
the Group through the challenges ahead for the benefit of our three key groups of stakeholders: our customers, These results could not have been achieved without the our employees and our shareholders.
skills and effort of everyone within the Group and I would like to record my thanks to them all.
The Group continues to have a strong reputation and the Board believes this is important to the Groups ability to At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 2 August 2007, conduct business.
Maintaining that reputation is a critical the Board will recommend a final dividend of 7.52 pence part of sustaining the legitimacy of the business in the per share for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Together eyes of customers and other stakeholders.
A strong with the interim dividend of 3.75 pence per share, the reputation and a high standard of service to customers dividend for the year will be 11.27 pence per share.
This build trust in the organisation.
represents an increase of 6.7% on the ordinary dividend for the previous year in line with the dividend policy we During the past year, we have performed well against a wide range of internal and external measures.
These are significant achievements set against the background of higher energy prices, which affect all areas of the business.
I am particularly pleased to report that in our southern operating area we did not need to introduce water restrictions last summer.
I would like to thank all our customers, who responded positively to our appeals to use water wisely and enabled us to maintain their supplies.
Maintaining a high level of well directed investment is vital to our continuing success.
In June 2006, we secured further funding to enable us to deliver the high levels Sir Derek and Managing Director John Cuthbert at the WaterAid of investment planned up to 2010.
With funding in place Platinum Partners Thank You lunch.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 03 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 change is underpinned by the work we have already done and sets a clear direction for the future.
We will continue to use technology effectively to improve customer service, drive costs down and improve efficiency.
The Group has sustained its focus on core competencies and merged the business of AES with NWL on 31 March 2007.
We have brought together expertise from the two companies and are building on existing strengths to deliver an improved service.
NWLs Peter Clark operating a control board at Seahouses sewage In September 2006 Alex Scott-Barrett, a non-executive treatment works in Northumberland.
director of NWL, joined the NWG Board.
Dr Simon Lyster was appointed to the NWL board in October 2006.
He is a lawyer by profession, and is Chief Executive of LEAD announced in June 2005, which is to grow the dividend International Leadership for Environment and Development.
by around 3% per annum, before inflation, in the current On leaving Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board OTPP regulatory period.
for another post, Ron Lepin resigned from the NWG and NWL boards on 1 December 2006.
He was replaced by The Group has a significant impact on the environment Claude Lamoureux, who is President and CEO of OTPP.
and we are determined to continue to improve our environmental performance, building on much good As the business goes forward, our priority is long term work already done.
sustainability and we all know we must do everything we can to achieve this for the business, our investors, We need to be mindful of the effects climate change customers and the environment.
is expected to have on the water cycle.
Of course, those effects cannot be predicted with certainty so we must Sir Derek Wanless prepare for an uncertain future, finding even more ways Chairman to improve the way we retain, recycle and distribute 5 June 2007 water.
Our customers need to be confident that we will continue to supply excellent drinking water, while managing safe and efficient waste water processes.
We have embarked on a new investment programme and we are confident that we can manage the risks and uncertainties faced by the water industry.
Our strategy to reduce energy use and the risks from the effects of climate CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS
