01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:35 Page 2 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Ken Harvey Chairman Pennon Group Plc I AM ONCE AGAIN PLEASED TO REPORT EXCELLENT PROGRESS BY THE GROUP DURING THE YEAR, RE-AFFIRMING THE SUCCESS OF OUR STRATEGY TO FOCUS ON OUR TWO KEY BUSINESSES OF SOUTH WEST WATER AND VIRIDOR Once again, drinking water quality and river water quality have been FINANCIAL OVERVIEW sustained at an all time high and the region features the highest Group revenue increased by 15.9% to 748.3 million.
Operating profit proportion of high quality rivers in England.
increased by 14.2% to 200.0 million, profit before tax increased by 18.2% to 131.1 million and earnings per share before deferred tax In 2006, for the first time, 100% of the designated bathing waters in for the year were 30.3p, an increase of 20.2% all before exceptional the South West Water region achieved the EU mandatory standard and items in 2005 06.
92% achieved the even more stringent guideline standard.
All major projects in the companys 15 year original Clean Sweep coastal sewage The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.7p, an 8.5% increase treatment programme have now been completed.
This is a significant which, together with the interim dividend of 5.85p, will result in a total contributor to the the record bathing water quality compliance.
dividend for the year of 18.55p, an increase of 7.8% on the total dividend for the previous year.
This is in accordance with the Boards stated policy The company continues to deliver improving levels of product and of growing the Group dividend by 3% above inflation per annum up to customer service and has embarked upon a number of initiatives to 2009 10.
Once again, shareholders will also be given the opportunity to enhance service and efficiency further.
These include the companys new participate in the Companys Dividend Re-investment Plan.
Service centre, which utilises the latest mobile computing technology, and WaterCare, a ground-breaking new customer care programme In April 2006 the Company completed the redemption of the outstanding targeted at helping those most in need to pay their water bills.
B Shares as part of the approved return of cash to shareholders.
Circa 145 million has now been returned through the B Share issue.
Regulatory capital value RCV is expected to grow by 34% to 2.6 billion over the current regulatory period to March 2010.
This is the highest SOUTH WEST WATER forecast percentage increase of any quoted UK water company.
South West Waters revenue increased by 33.0 million to 381.5 million In preparing for the forthcoming Periodic Review of prices in 2009 and operating profit increased 10.8% before exceptional costs in PR09, a number of projects are under way to ensure that South West 2005 06 to 156.8 million.
Operating costs, excluding depreciation, increased by 11.9 million to 147.0 million after 3.0 million of Water is prepared for the new challenges that lie ahead.
of these are provided in Chris Loughlins Overview of the companys performance and activities.
The company is implementing detailed plans to ensure it is well on track to achieve the operating cost efficiency target set by the Director General VIRIDOR of Water Services for the K4 period up to 2010.
Building further on the growth achieved over the past six years, Viridor traded particularly strongly in 2006 07.
Revenue was up 68.8 million The company has put in place a comprehensive strategy to help ensure a 23.0% to 367.7 million.
Operating profit before intangibles continued secure supply of water for the region.
Three of the companys amortisation PBITA for the year increased by 30.4% to 46.8 million.
key reservoirs were again replenished during the winter by pumping This increase included a full years contribution from last years Brett water from downstream river flows to supplement the natural rainwater Waste Management acquisition, the positive effect of Wyvern Waste and inflow.
The pump infrastructure was installed several years ago to Skipaway, which were acquired during the year and 12.6% growth in the provide enhanced drought protection.
2 01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 3 Total landfill disposal volumes increased by 9% to 4.7 million tonnes due to acquisitions.
Average gate fees rose by 7% to 19 per tonne with margins increasing by 50p to over 6 per tonne.
In addition, power generation output increased by a further 15% in the year to 423 GWh with average prices increasing 4.3% to 62 per MWh reflecting strong brown energy prices.
A significant part of Viridors strategy is exploring private finance initiative and public private partnership opportunities.
In January 2007 Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority announced that the Viridor Waste Management Limited John Laing Infrastructure Limited consortium had been selected as preferred bidder for its waste management services contract.
With an investment value of around 300 million, this will be the largest such scheme in the UK and will involve the handling of around 1.4 million tonnes of waste per annum.
Final negotiations are under way and the contract is due to commence in the current financial year.
There were other significant developments in the year.
These included new and extended recycling contracts, achieving preferred bidder status for medium-term council waste disposal contracts, the submission of a planning application for a 60,000 tonne energy from waste facility in Exeter, and progress as planned with the Lakeside energy from waste plant at Colnbrook, near Heathrow, as part of the 50:50 joint venture with Grundon Waste Management Limited.
Colin Drummonds Overview of performance and activities contains more detail on the achievements of the company during the year.
STRATEGY & PROSPECTS The Boards priority continues to be the creation of shareholder value through its strategic focus on water, sewerage and waste management.
The excellent performance highlighted above is testament to the Boards strategy of focusing on these key business areas.
The Board remains confident that South West Water will successfully deliver the K4 regulatory contract and significantly grow its regulatory capital value up to 2010.
Furthermore, Viridors successful strategy of creating long-term sustainable profit growth is expected to continue through capitalising on its landfill asset base, exploiting its landfill gas power generation potential and pursuing profitable opportunities in line with the Governments developing waste strategy.
In addition, the Group has put in place a long-term funding structure to enable it to continue to finance its activities efficiently.
BOARD MATTERS Chris Loughlin joined the Board as an Executive Director and became Chief Executive of South West Water on 1 August 2006 following Bob Batys retirement from that role on 31 July.
The Board expresses its gratitude to Bob for his significant contribution to South West Water since privatisation in 1989 and wishes him a long and enjoyable retirement.
To recognise the growing importance of sustainability and the need for the continuing development of the Groups environmental, social and governance policies, the Board established the Corporate Responsibility Committee in November 2006 under the chairmanship of Dinah Nichols.
This Committee supersedes the Environment Committee and further details are set out in the Corporate Governance and Internal Control Report on page 41.
EMPLOYEES During the time I have been Chairman of the Group many structural and organisational changes have taken place, throughout which employees have continued to demonstrate a high level of loyalty, commitment and professionalism.
I thank them most sincerely for their continuing support.
My personal thanks also go to the Non-executive Directors and Executive Directors for their significant contributions during what has been another busy and demanding year.
Ken Harvey, Chairman Pennon Group Plc 22 June 2007 3
