uk Chairmans Statement Having written my first report as Chairman in last years annual report, I am delighted to report on another year of evolution for Aricom.
The Group has grown from being an explorer to a developer and now to a miner the next crucial step towards delivering shareholder value.
Whilst the Kuranakh project made the significant step forward to become an operational mine, the rest of the portfolio also made critical advances.
We have published a pre-feasibility study on K&S which demonstrates both the ability of the project to operate and its economic potential.
We have also established the value inherent in the Garinskoye project with a scoping study suggesting approximately US$2 billion of net present value.
It has also been a year where we cemented our market position with the completion of the second largest secondary fundraising on Londons AIM and, subsequently moving from AIM to the Main Market of the LSE.
The fundraising has allowed the Group to make capital and investment commitments with increased Dr Pavel Maslovskiy, left with Jay Hambro, right confidence considering the required long lead times for major mining and processing equipment.
Aricoms warm welcome from the Main Market and the FTSE 250 has shown how the Group has not just evolved internally but has managed to demonstrate transparency and strong corporate governance.
I am delighted to report on another year of evolution for Aricom.
The I would like to thank all the people who work within the Group and to welcome Group has grown from being an those who joined during 2007.
I still believe that one of the most valuable assets that we explorer to a developer and now to a have in the portfolio is our human resource and this has expanded significantly as we miner the next crucial step towards move towards production.
At a senior level we were fortunate to benefit from the delivering shareholder value.
arrival of Brian Egan as Chief Financial Officer.
Brian brings with him an impressive track record of management within large organisations operating in Russia and we are glad to have him on board.
In a market where the price of both bulk commodities and their transport costs seem to appreciate daily it is an enviable position to be holding a number of large deposits, within a full spectrum of mining, development and delineation that are situated in close proximity to the border of one of the worlds largest growth markets.
We are fortunate with both our geography and our geology and I look forward to further bringing the two together to create value for all my fellow Aricom shareholders.
Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Chairman 10 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 1 11 1
