1 OUR NEW STRATEGY IS VERY SIMPLE: TO DELIVER PROFITABLE GROWTH THROUGH INTERNATIONALISING OURMODEL, TO FOCUS ON OUR FASTEST GROWING CUSTOMER MARKET SEGMENTTHE ELECTRONIC DESIGN ENGINEER EDE GLOBAL MARKET AND POWERFULLY DRIVE BUSINESS THROUGH THE WEB.
2006 7 has been a good year for Premier Farnell on many fronts, with significant revenue and profit progression over the prior year.
Consistent gross margin improvement quarter Company, as well as strengthening our team with external on quarter and strong operating leverage across all regions candidates.
Our quest to put good people at the heart of have been very pleasing.
Continued cash delivery, increased Premier Farnell is well documented in the interview with cash flow from operations and rigorous cost controls have Sandra Campopiano, Global HR Director on page 28.
The combined with this strong leverage to generate an increase past year has been an important one in the evolution of in underlying operating profit for the year of 20% at Premier Farnell.
constant exchange rates, whilst underlying earnings per share from continuing operations have grown 12% at Our new strategy is very simple: To deliver profitable growth constant exchange rates.
through internationalising our model, to focus on our fastest growing customer market segment the Electronic Design It has been a year of refreshing change and new ideas.
Engineer EDE global market and powerfully drive business Harriet Green joined the Group as CEO in early April 2006 and through the web.
In the Chief Executive Officers interview on shortly afterwards commenced a strategic business review to pages 4 to 7 Harriet Green shares her strategic vision in build on the strong foundations and distribution fundamentals greater detail.
already in place and develop a plan for the future a plan to deliver profitable growth and consistent high performance With the strategic review complete, the transition to the within a three year period.
The management team was further implementation phase, including the portfolio review actions, strengthened in September when Mark Whiteling joined as is well underway.
We are looking forward to 2007 8 and CFO.
The commitment that now exists across the senior team anticipate making further progress this year, with continued to deliver the business strategy and harness the power within investments to support the business strategy roll-out.
Our the organisation is solid.
As we undertake this evolutionary commitment to maintain both gross margin and the dividend journey we will forecast accurately, manage our costs and is resolute.
We expect to see on-going operating leverage consistently deliver on our commitments these across regions and the markets continue to offer positive fundamentals will underpin everything we do.
opportunities, despite some slowing of the growth rate in certain segments of our US markets.
We believe this will be In many respects the strategic review represents a return to mitigated by our expansion into new, fast growing territories, core principles, coupled with an overarching desire to meet most notably China, and Eastern Europe, and our targeted the needs of our business partners customers, suppliers, expansion into the rapidly developing electronic design and the investor community.
We took a long hard look at what engineering segment a market sector whose customers each of these key stakeholder groups needs from us and then are well served by our evolving proposition.
worked to determine a proposition to simplify what we do, deliver what our partners need and become easier to do We remain focused on a true multi-channel offering and have business with.
These inputs are well articulated by the successfully implemented a new, world-class web interface in customer and supplier interviews included in the Business our Marketing and Distribution Division in the US and shortly Review commencing on page 14.
We have a renewed clarity to follow in Europe and Asia, to powerfully engage customers of purpose, clear direction and focus.
Much of the strength online.
The rapid growth in web sales has had a positive effect of the review process is that this strategy was developed in on costs and has enhanced our ability to respond with the conjunction with over 150 key players from right across speed and quality of information customers expect from our business and then calibrated with global experts a high service intermediary like ourselves.
in the fields of IT, Logistics and Supply Chain.
In shaping In the coming year, with a green light from the Board our approach we involved the people on the front-line to for the Groups strategy, we will build on and embed the work with the leadership team.
These are the people work already begun to the benefit of our shareholders, who understand our business and capturing their input, employees, customers and suppliers, as we powerfully knowledge and buy-in early on has been invaluable to drive our business forward.
This inclusive approach has proved powerful and is already paying dividends across the organisation with high levels of employee engagement.
The knowledge, skills and motivation of our people are critical to the successful execution of the strategy.
We are constantly working to develop and strengthen our leadership team with a strong focus on Sir Peter Gershon succession planning and developing talent within the Chairman, Premier Farnell plc PREMIER FARNELL PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
