Chairmans Statement Looking forward Arriva today, like any business, reflects the strategic Arriva has developed a diverse portfolio of operations.
choices we have made in the past.
And while we This diversity limits our dependence on any single need to keep a firm grasp on the realities of the market or contract for success and ensures we have present, the future is where we keep our focus excellent knowledge of, and access to, a range of new on behalf of our passengers, investors and other opportunities across most of Europe.
We have reinforced our positions in the UK, Germany, Population growth, congestion and rising mobility Portugal, Sweden, Denmark, Italy and Spain, and have driven by economic growth are combining to create broken new ground in Poland via a joint venture in that social, political and environmental challenges.
Public countrys first ever private-sector passenger rail contract.
transport is increasingly an important part of the The smooth start in November 2007 of CrossCountry, response to these challenges across Europe.
With the UKs most geographically extensive rail franchise, expansion into the changing markets of mainland established Arriva as one of the UKs leading rail Europe at the heart of our strategy, our future lies in operators, alongside its position as a leading bus our ability to engage with stakeholders and develop operator.
appropriate solutions to their growing needs.
The rising awareness of environmental issues goes to In this respect, progress in 2007 has been extremely the heart of the public debate on the role of transport, encouraging.
We have continued our development on how it provides value for society, and how that through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions society can reconcile mobility with sustainability.
Our and investments throughout 2007 and early 2008. recently-announced target for improving the carbon Further acquisitions and tenders are now being efficiency of our operations will be demanding, but pursued actively.
The groundwork has been laid for will protect the long-term interests of our investors as further growth in the rest of 2008 and beyond.
18 | A Journey in Time Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 well as the communities in which we operate.
Many fuel efficiency Given the strength of the balance sheet, the cash generating power and CO2 reduction measures bring immediate cost savings, of the business and the prospects for continuing profitable others require us to invest in technology and ways of working growth, the Board is recommending a significantly higher dividend that protect and build long-term value.
increase than in previous years.
We propose to raise the final dividend by 10 per cent, to 17.06 pence per share.
Together with In financial terms, the full year effect of many of our recent the interim dividend of 5.59 pence per share paid in October 2007, successes has yet to be seen.
Nevertheless, for 2007 I am this makes a proposed total dividend of 22.65 pence per share.
pleased to report strong growth in revenue, up 16 per cent to The final dividend will be paid on 1 May 2008 to all shareholders 2,000.7 million 2006: 1,729.0 million and group operating on the register at the close of business on 28 March 2008. profit up seven per cent to 128.0 million 2006: 119.5 million.
Profit before taxation for continuing operations was up five per Overall, we believe that the commercial progress achieved in 2007 cent to 115.8 million 2006: 109.8 million, despite the will be reflected in results during 2008 and beyond.
In parallel, headwinds of increased fuel costs and the significant costs much work is underway to develop promising contract and incurred on bidding for three UK rail franchises.
acquisition opportunities for the medium term.
With robust finances, a diverse portfolio, and the momentum provided by our Basic earnings per share from continuing operations before 12.0 billion group order book, Arriva is performing strongly and goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and has built an attractive position for further success.
exceptional items, our preferred measure, increased to 46.5 pence 2006: 44.4 pence.
Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman Even after a year of significant growth through acquisitions as well as contract wins, our financial position has strengthened further.
Having taken advantage of market conditions in early August by securing a 615 million, five-year, revolving credit facility agreement, on improved terms, the group has the financial capacity to meet its anticipated investment needs within existing cash and medium-term credit resources.
