I am pleased to present our first full year results chairmaNs statEmENt as a public company and to report that Group maartEN hENdErsoN sales totalled 263.4 million up 8.7% while nOnExECuTIVE CHAIRMAn underlying growth in our core silicon products business was up 14.9% to 212.9 million.
Our results show a substantial improvement in operating margins from 19.9% to 28.0% and an increase in earnings before taxation of 44.4% to 70.8 million.
I am pleased to present our first full year results The market for our products continues to grow as a public company and to report that Group due to surging worldwide demand for energy sales totalled 263.4 million up 8.7% while coupled with increasing commitment of underlying growth in our core silicon products governments to arrest and reduce carbon business was up 14.9% to 212.9 million.
The International Energy Our results show a substantial improvement Agency IEA forecasts an annual worldwide in operating margins from 19.9% to 28.0% increase of over 55% in energy demand by and an increase in earnings before taxation 2030 and thus the potential for solar electricity of 44.4% to 70.8 million.
Our successful IPO is considerable.
In 2007 solar energy generated in June has strengthened our equity base only 0.06% of the worlds electricity and even and is enabling us to invest in the future with continuing annual growth of 35% solar growth of the business.
electricity would still only represent 5% of world demand in 2020.
While the turmoil on global financial markets meant that our share price fluctuated during the During the year we have successfully year, it finished the year strongly.
On 12 September completed the transition from our former our shares entered the FTSE 250 index and position as predominantly a supplier of outperformed the index by 28% in the period multicrystalline ingots to become a leading to 31 December.
Basic earnings per share grew wafer supplier thus enabling the broadening by 42.9% to 0.12 reflecting the strong growth of our customer base.
We continue to enjoy long from our products and our careful management established relationships with PV companies of costs.
The Board recognises the importance in our major markets Japan and Germany.
SUmmARy OF ChAIRmAnS STATEmEnT of dividends to shareholders and in line with Our strategic focus remains on the major In line with the expectations set at the time the expectations set at the time of the IPO, solar cell producers with 74% of silicon of the IPO, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.5 Euro cents per share payable the Board has recommended a final dividend product sales being made to the top ten in Sterling will be paid on 11 June to shareholders of 2.5 Euro cents per share will be paid on global companies.
Furthermore, we have on the register on 2 May 2008.
11 June to shareholders on the register on strengthened partnerships with two of The market for our products continues to grow due 2 May 2008.
This dividend is payable in cash these companies through the signing to surging worldwide demand for energy coupled in Sterling and will be converted from Euros of long term agreements.
with increasing commitment of governments to into Sterling at the forward exchange quoted arrest and reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
by The Royal Bank of Scotland Group at Our strategic focus remains on the major solar 11.00 a. m. on 2 June 2008. cell producers with 74% of silicon product sales being made to the top ten global companies.
The Group is well positioned for future growth.
04 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our strategy is to drive growth through Even the most pessimistic forecast of the a secured silicon feedstock supply and to European Photovoltaic Industries Association expand our production capacity at a flexible envisages that the global PV market will more and controlled rate to ensure a sustainable than double over the next three years and that business.
We believe that the availability crystalline silicon technology will continue to of economically priced silicon and continual dominate.
The Board shares this positive view incremental cost reduction will be imperative and believes the Group is well positioned for to ensure the growth of the global PV market future growth with our own internal silicon during the coming years.
We continue on this production in 2009 complementing our path of solid controlled expansion and have contracted polysilicon supplies and enabling now strengthened our position by further us to strengthen our position as one of the diversifying the source of our silicon supply.
PV industrys lowest cost wafer producers.
We have continued to develop and strengthen our organisation and have employed a number of key personnel at our new polysilicon plant in Bitterfeld.
In addition we have appointed Kazumasa Akiyama as the new President maartEN hENdErsoN at our subsidiary in Japan and he will bring nOnExECuTIVE CHAIRMAn extensive financial and commercial expertise 2 APRIL 2008 to our operations there.
Commitment and motivation of our staff has been enhanced by the granting of shares from our Employee Benefit Trust to long serving managers across the Group.
We recognise that the quality of our employees is one of the Groups key attributes and on behalf of the Board I would like to record our thanks to all of them for their outstanding contribution over the past year.
Our strategy is to drive growth through a secured silicon feedstock supply and to expand our production capacity at a flexible and controlled rate to ensure a sustainable business.
We continue on this path of solid controlled expansion and have now strengthened our position by further diversifying the source of our silicon supply.
We have appointed Kazumasa Akiyama as the new President at our subsidiary in Japan and he will bring extensive financial and commercial expertise to our operations there.
PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
