02 | Chairmans Statement | Annual Report 2007 2007 Operating profit of 66.2 million 2006 Operating profit of 60.2 million 2005 Operating profit of 53.5 million Before exceptional items see note 1 for denition.
Chairmans Statement | Annual Report 2007 | 03 I am pleased to advise shareholders that 2007 has been another year of considerable progress for the Group with operating profit before exceptional items reaching 66.2 million, an increase of 10%.
This successful result has been achieved Costas Nicoloulias, who retired after 37 years despite the challenging trading conditions with the Group, joined the board in June with the weak US dollar and higher 2000 as a regional director.
His substantial raw material costs impacting the business.
contribution to our operations in both Africa and the Pacic has played a great part Highlights in the year have been as follows: in our recent growth and I wish him a long Strong trading performance, particularly in and enjoyable retirement.
Nigeria and all European units significant growth in our white goods Phil Smyth, who joined the board in June business with Haier in Nigeria with further 1998, has held the position of regional expansion of the product range director Europe and more recently technical significant growth in our nutrition joint director.
His experience and valuable venture with Glanbia in Nigeria with contribution will be missed and I wish successful new product launches him and his wife, Emma, a long and The opening of the first Nigerian world class happy retirement.
HT Cool World opened in Lagos showcasing Rod Sellers joined the board in January 2001 the range of quality Haier Thermocool as a non-executive director.
Aside from his brand electrical appliances chairing of the audit committee his advice, No.
1 position achieved in personal wash especially in financial matters, has been category in UK following successful brand invaluable and greatly appreciated.
renovation programme Successful roll-out of the Charles Worthington On 1st January this year, I was delighted haircare brand into the UK nationwide trade to welcome Professor John Arnold to the Construction commenced of a new 26m board as non-executive director.
John Innovation Centre in Manchester, was previously Dean of Manchester incorporating a liquids manufacturing facility, Business School and has been President a Fragrance Development Centre and a of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Research and Development Centre in Manchester.
At a corporate level, the share split of ten The Groups strategic focus remains on for one was approved at the 2006 annual continued growth and margin improvement general meeting and has helped to improve in our selected markets.
The success that the liquidity of the companys shares.
we have achieved is the result of the hard work and dedication of all our staff As advised in the interim statement, throughout the PZ Cussons Group.
I should Costas Nicoloulias, Phil Smyth and like to thank all of them very much indeed.
Rod Sellers retired on 31st May 2007.
