QinetiQ Group plc 02 Annual Report 2007 Chairmans statement QinetiQs principal markets in the United Kingdom and North I am delighted to be able to report America continue to provide good opportunities for growth and we that QinetiQ performed strongly believe that we are well positioned as an innovative, technologyin the year, proving that our based solutions provider to perform strongly in future years.
strategy remains effective, our In the UK, the publication by the UK Ministry of Defence of the business model robust and that we Defence Technology Strategy marked a further important step in the development of UK Government Defence Policy, building on continue to execute well against the themes of the Defence Industrial Strategy from 2005.
The Group delivered 9.3% reinforces the importance of technology in meeting the armed growth in revenue and a 60 basis forces need for agility in the face of unpredictable and rapidly point improvement in underlying emerging threats and highlights the key focus areas which the MOD expects to be of most signi cance in the future.
This resulted in identi ed as a leader in the majority of these elds.
Defence budgets 10.4% growth in underlying earnings in the UK are expected to grow only modestly in future years.
per share to 11.3p and we are The MOD remains a crucial customer for which we see opportunities to become an even more important supplier in the years to come, proposing a final dividend of 2.45p although growth in the rest of our business will result in the MOD per share, giving a total dividend for contributing a smaller proportion of overall Group revenue.
QinetiQ is the first major defence company to be born in the 21st century and has the opportunity to provide a different offering to its customers based on meeting their real and immediate needs through a responsive, agile and technologically literate service-based approach.
A clear example of this was our success this year in being appointed preferred bidder for the Defence Training Rationalisation DTR programme through Metrix, our joint venture with Land Securities Trillium.
In North America there has been much discussion and debate over levels of US Government spending on defence and security following the congressional elections last year.
Although we anticipate there will be major changes in the coming years we continue to see many opportunities.
We believe our focus towards technology-rich service provision should allow us to continue to achieve good growth rates in this large market place.
A big part of our growth to date has been through the execution of our strategy to expand into the North American market and I am pleased with our reported performance in this market, which has been achieved despite the continued weakness of the US dollar against sterling.
Including the expected contribution from the recently completed acquisitions of Analex Corporation and ITS Corporation we now have a North American business with a pro forma turnover in excess of $900m which has moved us forward substantially towards our medium-term goal of delivering 50% of Group revenue from this market.
QinetiQ Group plc 03 Annual Report 2007 The value of innovation is paramount for QinetiQ and we have continued to make progress on our strategy to develop commercial applications and businesses from the deep intellectual property reserves we build from solving defence problems at the leading edge of technology.
As well as moving some of our later stage product businesses closer to achieving mainstream revenues, I am pleased at the continued stream of new technologies that have moved into our business ventures pipeline in the year which will accelerate the development of these opportunities.
As I reported last year, we aimed to add to the Board one additional Non-executive Director with US experience.
We were pleased to welcome George Tenet to the Board in October 2006: he brings an extensive understanding of the working of the US Government as well as unparalleled knowledge of defence, security and intelligence communities worldwide.
In February 2007, Glenn Youngkin stood down from the Board following Carlyles disposal of their remaining shareholding in the Group.
I would like to thank him for the valuable contribution that he has made to the Group over the period he has served on the Board.
My role as Chairman changed from Executive to Non-executive and I am pleased with the smooth transition of my executive responsibilities to Graham Love.
The Board now comprises two Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Directors, five of whom are considered to be independent Non-executives.
Additionally we are strengthening our management teams to lead further improvements in operations and penetration of target markets.
We have now completed our first full year as a public company and the progress we have made is in large part due to the commitment of our highly skilled people.
I would like to thank them for the contribution they have made to the delivery of this years performance and look forward with con dence to further success in delivering on our strategy in the coming year.
Sir John Chisholm Chairman 31 May 2007
