1 The Loulo underground extraction strategy has been focused on accessing the orebodies in a safe and 08 considered manner.
Chairmans statement When gold reached a new high of US$894 per ounce In the eight years since the on 11 January 2008, the Financial Times editorialised that the metal - largely written off a decade earlier as start of the new millennium, a barbarous relic with no place in a world of electronic the price of gold has gone money - had re-established itself as the main global currency after a seven-year bull run that shows no up by more than 200%, with sign of slowing down.
Clearly, a large number of people, sophisticated investors as well as ordinary a surge of 37% last year savers, have been abandoning conventional assets alone.
Over the same period, for the comfort of gold, a store of value for more than 5 000 years.
the FTSE-100, the London Some argue that the soaring gold price is being driven Stock Exchanges main by temporary anxiety over political and financial turmoil: index, has lost about 15% wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the prospect of a nuclear Iran, a newly assertive Russia and the sub-prime of its value.
There may well be an element of panic in the rush to gold, but a stronger and more enduring factor is the investors fear of the long term consequences of uncertain monetary policies and in particular of the speed at which the governments are printing money.
By contrast, there is a finite supply of gold, and that keeps it an honest, stable store of value.
All the worlds major economies have experienced a rapid money supply growth of 10% or more per year in recent years.
This is a compelling reason for prudent long term investors to turn to gold as a hedge against rising global inflation and persistent dollar weakness.
Increasing investor demand is graphically illustrated by the growth in gold exchange traded funds ETFs - 34% up last year and now, with 865 tonnes of the metal, the worlds seventh largest holder of physical bullion.
And it is not just investment demand that is rising: the gold price is also supported by strong jewellery buying by the growing middle class in countries such as India and China.
Gold jewellery sales in India - already the worlds largest gold consumer, accounting for more than 20% of global demand - jumped by almost 40% in the first nine months of last year.
While the demand keeps going up, the supply is diminishing.
Gold mine production fell 7%, from 2 621 tonnes to 2 450 tonnes, between 2001 and 2007 and is likely to continue diminishing, constrained by both the lack of viable new projects and rising production costs.
08 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 1 The sustained bull run has stampeded withdrew into survival mode, Randgold From the start, Randgold Resources has Resources not only continued to run the mining industry and its followers into been a strategically driven business: extensive exploration programmes but made a frantic scramble to cash in while the constantly analysing its environment, devising bold development decisions and put its good times last.
For some of them it will scenarios and developing or adjusting plans balance sheet at risk to fund them.
It did so for success in a changing world.
Two years be a case of too little or too late: there are because management was focused on few good projects around and those will ago, its management decided to align its building a long term business rather than typically take five to ten years from business strategy with a scenario which merely getting through the next quarter.
predicted a high gold price coupled to rising discovery to production.
Others have no That clarity of vision and strength of strategic real interest in digging for gold and are production costs.
To meet this challenge, purpose produced a company that has mining the markets instead.
they stepped up the search for resource grown from a market capitalisation of ounces and strengthened the companys US$147 million to over US$3.5 billion in the Randgold Resources, by contrast, cost controls.
New business initiatives were short space of ten years: that has been able believed in gold when it was not intensified, the development of the Tongon to bring production on line just as the gold project was accelerated, procurement fashionable to do so.
In the mid-Nineties, price started taking off: and that has the when the price languished below US$300 policies were tightened and overhead capability to expand its resources and output expenses pruned.
per ounce and most mining companies in years to come.
Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 09 These timely measures have equipped the that are marginal at best, they should challenges.
The fact that Randgold company uniquely well to take full advantage concentrate on the development of Resources has nevertheless produced a of the opportunities and to manage the realistic business models and viable very creditable set of results is a tribute to difficulties presented by exacting operating feasibility studies.
They should reinvest for the enterprise, dedication and sheer hard conditions.
sustainability and deal honestly with their work of Mark Bristow and every member of host governments not only as regulators but the team.
On behalf of the board, I thank In line with its emphasis on long term also as partners.
them for another fine effort.
On the subject sustainability rather than short term of the teams, Graham Shuttleworth replaced advantage, Randgold Resources has since Governments for their part should maintain Roger Williams as chief financial officer in its inception invested substantially and a fiscal and legislative regime that is the course of the year and the new business consistently not only in its physical assets conducive to mining development, make a and exploration teams were reorganised.
but also in the development of its partnerships tangible contribution to infrastructural creation New and additional skills were recruited at and its people.
and, not least, ensure that the substantial various levels in the capital projects, revenues they earn from the mining industry exploration, operation, finance and That is why the theme of this years annual are shared equitably with their people.
Overall, these teams report is The Power of People and now represent an optimum balance of youth Partnerships.
It pays tribute to the productive As detailed elsewhere in this report, the and experience, giving the company a very and mutually beneficial relationships company remains committed to the sound and constantly reinvigorated Randgold Resources has forged with its responsible utilisation of natural resources management and skills base.
In Mali alone, the and the protection of the environment, and company has, through operations it has seeks wherever possible to minimise the I wish to record our appreciation to the developed, invested and reinvested more negative and maximise the positive impacts governments and people of the countries in than US$1 billion, paid in excess of of its activities.
It has formal programmes in which the company operates: they are not US$500 million directly to the government place to achieve these aims, and these only our hosts but our highly valued partners.
in dividends, royalties and taxes, equipped comply with the standards of the World Bank I thank our shareholders for their continued more than 3 000 people with skills and as well as those of its host countries.
All support, and our partners, suppliers, advisors careers and made a substantial contribution new projects include a comprehensive and other business associates for the to infrastructural development and community environmental and social impact assessment.
contribution they made to the companys upliftment.
At Tongon in Cte dIvoire, for example, an progress.
I would also like to express my assessment of this kind on the proposed gratitude to my colleagues on the board for As an African-focused business, Randgold new mine is currently being used as the their sage counsel.
Resources is keenly aware that for Africa to basis for an extensive consultative process prosper from its mineral wealth, it needs to with the local community and the regional In addition to the normal business which is embark without delay on a process designed authorities.
to be transacted at the companys annual to use the mining industry as the foundation general meeting on 28 April 2008, your for building its economies.
To succeed in The people and partnerships theme also board is seeking shareholder approval for this, the leaders of government and industry acknowledges the critical importance of the an increase in the authorised share capital will have to cooperate and demonstrate the Randgold Resources team to the business and of the Randgold Resources Limited vision, courage and perseverance of true continued success.
The highly developed Restricted Share Scheme.
skills, passionate commitment and found in the notice to shareholders.
enthusiastic cooperation of the men and Mining companies should accept that when women in the field, at the operations and in they operate in Africa, they do not only have the corporate offices - some of whom are an obligation to deliver returns to investors: featured in this report - have enabled the they also have a social responsibility to help the people of that continent to realise their company to seize opportunities and surmount obstacles.
Among other things, this means that they must plan for and commit to the long term.
Instead of creating The past year was again a very busy one Philippe Litard exaggerated expectations around projects for the company and it had its share of Chairman 10 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Boar Boar Board and management d and management d and management Rod Quick Group general manager, project development and evaluation Joined Randgold Resources as an exploration geologist on greenfields programmes in Mali and Senegal in 1996.
As country geologist for Cte dIvoire, he oversaw the prefeasibility study on Tongon from 2001 to 2003, then worked as resource evaluation geologist on Loulo and Morila, becoming mineral resource manager at Loulo in 2005 and taking up his current position - evaluating all new projects - in 2007.
Ive spent the past 10 years helping to find and develop major gold deposits, with the expansion and delineation of the Tongon orebody and the expansion of the Loulo resource as stand-out experiences.
The opportunity of making a significant contribution to a winning team is what gets me out of bed in the morning.
