Chairmans statement Having taken action to stabilise profits, our priority is now to generate improvements in revenue, principally through increased customer visits to our retail and interactive businesses.
Key events in 2007 $965m sale of Hard Rock completed 353m returned to shareholders via special dividend Gambling Act 2005 implemented Smoking ban introduced in England and Wales Substantial increase in rate Following a number of years of restructuring, Having taken action to stabilise profits, our priority of casino gaming duty Rank is now a focused gaming group.
The sale of is now to generate improvements in revenue, Hard Rock for $965m 502m and the associated principally through increased customer visits to return to shareholders of 353m were the final our retail and interactive businesses.
The Groups management As we look to raise our game commercially, we has concentrated on the operation of its gaming recognise the need to maintain our high standards businesses at a time when they have faced a of responsible operation.
The values of responsibility number of difficult external conditions.
and fairness that underpin the Gambling Act also sit Three major changes affected the performance at the heart of our business.
By setting an example of the Group in the year: a substantial increase in for the rest of the industry to follow, we can help to casino gaming duty, announced in the Governments shape a better understood and more fairly regulated Budget in March 2007: the introductions of bans on environment for our businesses to operate in.
smoking in enclosed public spaces in Wales April and England July : and the prohibition of Section 21 gaming terminals upon the full implementation of the Gambling Act 2005 the Gambling Act in September.
This succession of events created a difficult trading environment during the second half of 2007 for our UK retail businesses, Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos and contributed to a decline in Group profits.
Peter Johnson Chairman The Board and senior management of Rank anticipated that the combination of these changes would have a negative effect on Group profits, but under estimated the scale of the decline.
The Group is now focused on the actions necessary to stabilise performance in the short-term, whilst considering the medium-term and long-term actions necessary to regenerate growth.
In December 2007, we announced our decisions to scale back capital expenditure, to tighten further our cost control measures and to cancel payment of the final dividend for 2007.
It is the Boards intention to reinstate dividend payments once we have seen a sustained improvement in trading.
For more information please visit www.
com The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 3
