Chairmans Statement 2007 was an excellent year for Reckitt Management Benckiser and its shareholders.
The Company The success of the Company owes much to the posted record financial results, it further strength of its brands, but it would not succeed strengthened the global market positions without the commitment and passion of the of its major brands and it expanded further management team under the leadership of into consumer healthcare, a key strategic Bart Becht, our CEO.
2007 was a year which ambition, with the acquisition of Adams demonstrated the strength of our people, and Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. in the USA especially those senior executives who assumed January 2008.
The Companys balance new positions in 2006. sheet remains strong and we are well We continue to focus much attention on the positioned for future growth.
need for a strong, sustainable supply of talented Returning cash to shareholders people, with continuity in style and culture, to The strong growth of the business, leveraged fill senior management positions in future.
into even better increases in profit and cash Annual General Meeting resolutions flow, allowed the Company to reward Towards the end of 2007, the Company shareholders with an increasing rate of cash completed its Scheme of Arrangement to create return.
In 2007 we completed another 300m a new top company, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
of share buy backs, while paying higher dividends This change means that the Company now of 358m and paying down virtually all of the has plentiful distributable reserves to allow cash remaining debt taken on to acquire Boots returns to shareholders for many years to come.
Most resolutions at the AGM this year are The Directors propose a final dividend of 30.0 standard, with two additional resolutions which pence which will bring the total for the year seek approval to amendments to the Companys to 55.0 pence, an overall increase of 21%.
The Articles of Association and authorisation for the increase is ahead of the earnings growth of the Company to communicate with shareholders Company, reflecting the Boards confidence in electronically and I hope they will receive the the business momentum.
The Board strongly The acquisition of Adams on 30 January 2008 recommends that shareholders continue to for around 1.1bn in cash will not materially support the strategies and policies that have alter the Companys ability to continue returning brought such success to the Company.
We look cash to shareholders.
forward to updating you further at our Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2008.
The Board of Directors There has been no change in the Board of Thanks Directors since the year end.
Peter White will On behalf of all shareholders, I extend our not seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual sincere thanks again to Bart Becht and his team General Meeting.
Peter has been an extremely for the achievements of the past year.
My thanks valuable member of the Board for ten years and also go to the members of the Board for their we thank him very much for his most useful contribution and support.
Finally, I again thank contribution, and in particular for his wise shareholders for their confidence in the Board chairing of the Audit Committee from 1998 and the Company, and I look forward to further to 2006. success in the years to come.
The Board regularly reviews the performance and results of the business and holds specific Adrian Bellamy reviews with management on brand, area and Chairman functional performance.
The Board also reviewed various other aspects of the business during the year, including annual reviews of corporate governance, corporate responsibility, reputational and business risk.
The Board also conducted its annual appraisal of its own performance.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 1
