Chairmans statement Redrow has clear strategies for the core components of its business: a long term approach to land acquisition, a development philosophy based on high quality design and a commitment to developing the skills of our employees.
Alan Bowkett Non-Executive Chairman This is my first statement as Chairman of Redrow plc following my The level of capital employed in the business grew over the last appointment in July 2007 and I am delighted to be taking on this twelve months, principally as we increased our investment in land important role.
Redrow possesses many strong attributes especially by 118.4m to 641.4m to support our future growth.
As a the quality of its land holdings, its attention to design and consequence, return on capital employed declined to 19.4% innovation and the experience and capabilities of its people.
2006: 22.0%, still well ahead of the Groups comparable cost of The Group continues to invest in and further enhance these capital.
At June 2007, gearing was 30.7% 2006: 25.3% so important areas so as to take advantage of the opportunities in its providing the capacity for further investment in our land bank.
Dividend 2006 07 Performance The twelve months to June 2007 represented the first year of our The UK new homes market in 2006 07 was stable but competitive two year commitment to increase the dividend by 20% per in an interest rate environment that saw four rate increases in the annum.
The dividend for the year will be 15.6 pence per share period.
The planning regime continues to be inefficient and grows 2006: 13.0p, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual in complexity and as elsewhere in our industry, this resulted in General Meeting.
The proposed final dividend of 7.8 pence per delays in bringing new outlets on stream.
In response, the business share reflects the rebalancing of the dividend payment made in focused on delivering an appropriate rate of sale from its 2006 07 to improve the timing of cash flows to shareholders developments to optimise returns and to support the forward order through a higher interim dividend payment.
In the last five years, book for 2007 08, with overall forward sales up 6.4% at June 2007. the dividend has increased at a compound growth rate of over 20% per annum and we have reduced our dividend cover from Group turnover increased by 3.3% to 795.7m 2006: 770.1m.
6.4 times to its present level of 3.4 times.
Legal completions increased by 1.9% to 4,823 new homes and there was a strong contribution from our Mixed Use and The Board Regeneration activities.
Operating profit was 2.9% higher at There have been significant changes in the composition of the 136.6m 2006: 132.8m with the operating margin in the Board since the last Annual Report.
With much sadness we Homes business in line with expectations at 17.1% 2006: 17.5%.
announced in April the death of my predecessor as Chairman, There was continued investment in the land bank and the number Robert Jones.
Robert is remembered with much fondness having of owned plots with planning consent increased to 17,700 plots been a Director for nearly ten years and Chairman since October 2006: 16,750.
This investment, together with the increase in 2000.
Jim Martin, who was our Senior Non-Executive Director, interest rates, resulted in higher financing costs at 15.3m acted as Interim Chairman at short notice and after ten years of 2006: 11.5m.
The Group made a profit before tax of 120.5m service as a Non-Executive Director stands down on and basic earnings per share of 52.9p, both unchanged from the 11 September 2007.
The Board wishes to acknowledge the previous year.
important contributions of both Robert and Jim to Redrows 6 Chairmans statement development.
I would like to thank Jim for his stewardship in the Looking Forward intervening period and for his invaluable advice upon my The UK economy overall appears relatively resilient with appointment.
Brian Duckworth, who has served on the Board employment levels remaining strong.
We entered the new since June 2002, has taken on the position of Senior financial year with a much stronger position in terms of Non-Executive Director.
implementable planning consents so that the outcome for Redrow in 2007 08 will largely depend on the strength of the markets in This year also sees two long standing Executive Directors leave the which we operate.
Some lead indicators suggest that the increases business.
Each has played a significant part in making Redrow one in interest rates since August 2006 are beginning to have a of the UKs leading residential developers.
Paul Pedley has been an dampening effect on the market and we have positioned the integral part of Redrow for over 22 years as Finance Director, business to best respond to prevailing conditions.
Managing Director, Chief Executive and since August 2005, Executive Deputy Chairman.
He has been a leading figure in the The industry in which we operate is increasingly in the public eye.
industry for many years and in 2006 was awarded an OBE for The shortage and affordability of homes, together with the services to business in Wales.
Paul will retire on 30 September requirement to respond to the challenge of sustainability, become 2007.
Barry Harvey was with the Company for over twelve years ever more prominent issues.
We are witnessing an unprecedented and for the last nine as a Director of Redrow plc in the role of level of new initiatives from Government and we also have the Northern Regional Chairman.
Barry stood down from the Board market study into UK housebuilding by the Office of Fair Trading on 29 June 2007.
The Board wishes to record its appreciation for taking place over the next twelve months.
the long and distinguished service given by both Paul and Barry to Redrow.
I am delighted that David Campbell-Kelly has joined the With challenge comes opportunity and Redrow has clear strategies senior management team as Northern Regional Chairman having for the core components of its business: a long term approach to been with Redrow for 13 years and for the last 8 years as a land acquisition, a development philosophy based on high quality Managing Director and more recently as a Regional Chairman.
design and a commitment to developing the skills of our employees.
This leaves us well placed to capitalise on the We have been fortunate to be joined by two excellent new opportunities available in our markets for the benefit of our Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Denise Jagger joined the shareholders.
Board on 17 January 2007 and Bob Bennett was appointed on 1 May 2007.
Bob has since taken on responsibility for Chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
We look forward to their contribution to the continuing success of Redrow in the coming years.
Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Redrow recognises its responsibility to its shareholders and other Alan Bowkett stakeholders and there is a detailed report on corporate Chairman governance and an update on our work in the area of corporate social responsibility within the Annual Report.
We recognise the increasing importance of sustainability issues which we are affording a greater focus in our operations.
Alongside our peer group and stakeholders from other sectors we have embraced the Governments 2016 Zero Carbon Commitment.
Redrow is the only housebuilder to be a member of the World Wildlife Funds UK Forest and Trade Network and we work with that organisation to increase our use of timber from well managed and sustainable sources.
We believe in providing a safe environment for everyone on our sites and were delighted to secure a Gold Award from the Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents RoSPA for Health and Safety for the second successive year.
Finally, we continue to invest in our people at all levels to allow them to develop their skills and to support our business objectives.
The Redrow Team in the widest sense is responsible for achieving success within the business.
We would like to thank not only our own employees but also our suppliers, sub-contractors, consultants and advisers for their commitment in making Redrow successful.
