CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 01: XL-80 high-speed compact laser calibration system for analysis of high-speed systems and small, high frequency movements, with maximum linear speed of 4 m s and 1 nm resolution 02: Sir David McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive 01 I report the Companys results for the year ended 30th June 2007.
Sales and marketing The Groups worldwide marketing programmes continue, with the Revenue and trading many new offices growing and prospering as they have become fully Revenue for the year increased by 3% to 180.9m 2006 175.8m established, particularly in the Far East, including China and India.
which represents growth of 8% at constant exchange rates.
The Group participates worldwide in excess of 100 exhibitions With the exception of co-ordinate measuring machine CMM annually which contribute significantly to the recognition of the products, where one of our major customers in Japan has been Groups products and to sales.
subject to an export ban, there was growth in all product line revenue in particular, machine tool and dental.
Geographically, Manufacturing there was substantial growth in Europe.
The Groups UK manufacturing facilities at Stonehouse, Woodchester including the new automated stores, New Mills and Profit also in Ireland have continued to invest in additional equipment to Operating profit for the year, excluding an exceptional non-cash improve efficiencies and are preparing for the introduction of a new pension curtailment credit, reduced to 29.7m 2006 35.5m, manufacturing Enterprise Resource Planning ERP business system.
due to a number of factors, particularly exchange rate movements, At Pune in India, the production facilities are now fully operational and primarily the US Dollar and Japanese Yen with an adverse profit the range of products being manufactured there is being extended.
effect of 7m and difficulties in the CMM market.
Profit before tax and exceptional item was 32.7m 2006 38.1m, resulting in earnings per share of 35.9p 2006 41.9p.
06 02 Research and development Investments Research and development during the year amounted to 31.1m During the year, the Group acquired, for 6.1m, a 20% interest in including associated engineering costs 2006 29.3m prior to the Delcam plc, which specialises in advanced CAD CAM software capitalisation of development costs net of amortisation of 1.6m product development solutions for the manufacturing industry.
2006 1.8m giving a net profit and loss charge of 29.5m Delcam is listed on the London Stock Exchanges AIM market.
Renishaw and Delcam have worked together for many years and share common metrology interests and customers.
Renishaw REVO is now in production and is being extensively tested and believes that closer cooperation with Delcam will enhance the sales integrated by OEMs and major end user customers worldwide.
of both companies and will provide opportunities for developing Several REVOs are being used in their production and are delivering software to support Renishaws products.
significant improvements for them in throughput and productivity.
A number of new products have been introduced during the year.
In addition to those referred to in the interim statement, recent products include the XL-80 laser and XC-80 compensator, which provide significant improvements to the product offerings in the laser and calibration market.
The TRS2 tool recognition system has been introduced, which provides rapid broken tool detection on a wide range of machine tools.
Our spectroscopy product line has recently introduced StreamLine technology, which enables very fast production of Raman chemical images.
07 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 03: StreamLine high-speed imaging 05: TRS2 tool recognition system, for technology is available as an option for cost effective, high-speed broken tool Renishaw inVia Raman microsopes detection on a wide range of machine tools and tool types 04: Sir David McMurtry receives the Queens Award for Enterprise: Innovation 2007 commemorative rose bowl from Henry Elwes - Her Majesty The Queens Lord Lieutenant of Gloucestershire 03 04 Since the year end, Renishaw has acquired a 75% interest in D3 Pension fund Technologies Limited D3, a company set up in collaboration with Following the announcement with the interim results and completion the University of Strathclyde and others to exploit certain patents of the consultation process with fund members, future accrual for related to Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy SERS and to current members of the UK pension scheme ceased on 5th April develop SERS for molecular diagnostics and trace detection.
A new defined contribution pension scheme was established investment in D3 will comprise cash of 1.85m and the supply of on 6th April 2007.
As a result of the changes, an exceptional noninstrumentation, with a combined value of approximately 5m over cash curtailment credit of 19.5m has been incorporated in the the next 5 years.
Consolidated income statement as required by IAS 19.
Part of the D3 investment has been used to purchase for 850,000 The Queens Award for Enterprise 2007 the business and assets of the analytical business unit ABU On 21st April 2007, the birthday of Her Majesty the Queen, it was operated by Mesophotonics Limited, a spin-out company from the announced that Renishaw had been honoured with a Queens University of Southampton.
The ABU develops and manufactures Award for Enterprise: Innovation 2007 for the RMP60 and RMI probe substrates used in SERS applications.
This is the 12th Queens Award in the Companys history.
Balance sheet The award was made to the Company for the development of Capital expenditure during the year on tangible fixed assets a radio transmission spindle probe system used on computer was 9.7m 2006 13.2m.
Net cash balances, after the capital numerically controlled CNC machine tools.
The systems are able expenditure during the year, the investment in Delcam plc and to measure work pieces, provide off-set fixtures, control in-cycle increase in working capital, were 20.8m 2006 30.7m.
processes and inspect work being machined automatically.
08 05 Engineering costs Capital expenditure million million Other Land and buildings Research and development Plant and vehicles % of revenue 03 04 05 06 07 03 04 05 06 07 Personnel Your Board proposes a final dividend of 15.82p per share giving a total for the year of 22.87p 2006 21.78p.
The numbers of those employed by the Group in the UK and overseas increased by 150 to 2,154 2006 2,004.
I thank all our employees for their contribution to the Group during this challenging year.
Prospects and dividend For the purposes of budgeting for the financial year, we are not expecting to see any benefit from an improvement in foreign exchange rates.
Nevertheless, if current rates of order intake continue we would expect to see sales growth approaching double Sir David R McMurtry digits, assisted by the anticipated recommencement of business CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, FREng in the second half of the current financial year with our Japanese Chairman and Chief Executive customer whose export activities have been restricted in the past 25th July 2007 year.
In view of last years trading performance we are also taking steps to address the cost base of the Group, with the objective of restoring our operating margin to its previous level.
I am optimistic about the prospects for continuing long-term growth.
