Chairmans Statement You will find full details of the Groups 2007 performance, including This is my final report to you as Chairman of Rexam the statutory results, in the Business Review on pages 14 to 41.
In as I will be stepping down at the Annual General summary, we delivered organic sales growth of 11% from ongoing Meeting AGM in May this year after twelve years operations with sales continuing the momentum of the last two years while underlying operating profit, which excludes exceptional items with the Company.
In addition to the sale of the Glass business, we were impacted by the translation of a 2007 was a challenging year for Rexam.
We weakening US dollar as well as a significant change in the wider delivered strong revenue growth from our continuing economic environment.
The cost of oil went up from US$65 to about operations.
As anticipated, the pressure of continuing US$90 per barrel, which had an impact on our freight, resin and energy costs.
As mentioned, we also suffered an unexpected strike high aluminium and other input costs and the weaker at nine of our US can making plants, and, in the second half, US dollar impacted our profit performance.
In production delays to our new can end making plant in Brazil.
addition, a number of one off events, such as a Free cash flow generation of 24m was appreciably lower than strike in North America and a delay to the start up last year 2006: 173m largely owing to the number of capital investments we made to ensure that we have the capacity to capture of a new Brazilian plant, as well as rising energy future profitable growth opportunities.
costs and a further weakening of the US dollar in Prior to the deterioration of conditions in global credit markets, we the second half, made the year even more difficult had already substantially refinanced our balance sheet with the issue than expected.
of a Euro 750m subordinated bond at a reasonable cost.
With interest cover of 3.7 times, we are comfortable with our borrowings.
Leslie Van fide Walle was appointed CEO at the start of the year Packaging and sustainability and he took up the reins immediately.
He and his leadership team, Packaging was again in the spotlight during 2007, especially in indeed the whole Company, focused on the areas they could the UK, with the press continuing to comment on excessive packaging.
influence performance and delivery of the strategy.
We reduced It was interesting to note that a UK government report in 2007 our exposure to the volatility of aluminium prices and worked hard revealed that consumer attitudes to excessive packaging have to mitigate the anticipated increase in costs.
In addition, we delivered barely changed.
According to this report only 12% of people cost and efficiency savings of 32m with Plastic Packaging regularly decide not to buy something because it had too much contributing to almost half of these savings.
Although the profit figure packaging.
This is exactly the same number as in 2001. may disappoint, these results bear testimony to the strong can do culture that we have fostered in this Company.
I would like to thank As I said last year, packaging is what gets the beverage from the everyone for their enormous contribution and effort during the year.
filler into your hand or the food from the farm to the fridge shelf as efficiently as possible.
It sustains the quality of life that many of us 2007 was also a year in which Rexam continued to execute take for granted.
The safe delivery of food, drink, medicine and its strategy to focus the business on higher growth, higher margin other goods is intrinsically linked to the quality of packaging.
Studies segments and emerging markets as demonstrated by the acquisition consistently show that reduced packaging may lead to more product of OI Plastics and the divestment of the Glass business.
In January this damage or more spoilage and could prove a false economy both year, we completed the acquisition of Rostar, the Russian beverage financially and for the environment.
can maker, consolidating our position in this high growth market.
As a leading global consumer packaging company, we take our We continued to invest in our existing operations, mainly in Beverage environmental responsibilities very seriously.
Long term stakeholder Cans, with unprecedented levels of capital expenditure in growth value is our primary aim, so sustainability must necessarily be at the segments or growth regions.
In some cases, as in Europe, it is to very heart of what we do.
In manufacturing, reduction of energy and meet existing and anticipated demand: in others it is to realign our other utilities and emissions are not only good for the environment but business to capture growth opportunities, such as in North America they make us more efficient.
We work closely with our customers and where we are converting standard can lines into specialty can lines.
suppliers to reduce the amount of material we use in our various types In both cases, we are always conscious of maintaining a good of packaging, all the while ensuring that we maintain the integrity of balance between capacity and demand.
We are involved in many packaging recycling schemes together with our customers, suppliers, retailers and local governments in the countries in which we operate.
We promote packaging and packaging recycling through our trade organisations and through the support of local initiatives.
12 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Changes to the Board In conclusion On 17 January 2007, Leslie Van fide Walle became a director It is now 12 years since I began my association with Rexam, first of Rexam and took over as CEO on 1 February 2007 when Lars as Chief Executive and latterly as Chairman.
During that time the Emilson retired from the Board.
Leslie joined us from the Royal Dutch Company has gone through a complete transformation and today, Shell Group where he was Executive Vice President of Global Retail.
as a focused global leader in consumer packaging, it is a far cry He has made a significant contribution to Rexam in his first year from the conglomerate of 1996.
A clear vision of what we wanted through his decisive leadership and I am confident that he will to achieve, and how we wanted to achieve it, helped keep us firmly deliver shareholder value going forward.
It has been a stimulating and rewarding period in my life in which I have had the privilege to work with many On 1 February of this year, Peter Ellwood joined the Board as non outstanding people who have helped to make this transformation executive director and Chairman Designate and it is proposed that possible and to sustain it.
These last three years have been he succeed me following our AGM on 1 May 2008.
Until recently particularly challenging in the face of dramatic increases in input Peter was Chairman of ICI, the global specialty chemicals company, costs and a weak US dollar but we have worked hard to and prior to that he was Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group compensate for these and to prepare us for the future.
I leave the PLC, a leading UK based financial services group.
He has extensive Company at the AGM confident that we have a robust machine for experience in strategic business issues.
His leadership and banking generating sustainable and profitable growth.
We have two sizeable experience, along with his energy and determination, will complement global businesses and strong market positions to take advantage of our Board skills and we are delighted that he is joining us at this the considerable opportunities that the consumer packaging market exciting time in Rexams development.
Our focus on operational excellence across the Group Dividends delivers substantial savings each year.
Finally, in Peter and Leslie and The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.7p per ordinary his leadership colleagues you have an extremely capable team to share, which, including the interim dividend of 8.3p, represents take the Company into the next chapter of its story.
I wish Rexam, an increase of 5% on last year.
This is in line with Rexams ongoing its employees and shareholders continued success in the future.
policy to increase the dividend payout by about 5% pa, provided that the financial resources are available and that underlying earnings growth continues as expected.
Subject to approval by the shareholders at the AGM on 1 May 2008, the dividend will be paid on 3 June 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 9 May 2008.
Rolf Brjesson Chairman Outlook In 2008, despite the economic outlook and the inflationary input 20 February 2008 cost environment, we expect to see continued top line growth across our upgraded portfolio and as our investment in organic growth begins to bear fruit.
We will realise the synergies from our recent acquisitions and continue to deliver savings through our focus on operational efficiency.
As a result, we look forward to a return to profits growth in 2008.
Rolf Brjesson Chairman 2007 was a year in which Rexam continued to execute its strategy to focus the business on higher growth, higher margin segments and emerging markets.
