qxd 11 7 07 11:53 am Page 4 4 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It has been year of change and strategic growth for Ashtead.
We achieved good progress in our underlying pre-tax profits which were 81.4m, up 20.6% from last year and supported by a step change in the size of the Group with the acquisition of NationsRent in the US.
All our businesses performed well and we continued to build on the progress demonstrated over the last two years.
The Board has worked hard in recent years to strengthen the financial position of the Company.
The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend to 1.1p per share, making 1.65p for the year, up 10% on last years total of 1.5p per share.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 28 September to shareholders on the register on 7 September 2007.
I am very pleased to be leading the Board at this exciting time for the Group, but that sentiment is also tinged with sadness as it comes as a result of the untimely death in October of Cob Stenham, our previous chairman.
I knew Cob well, having worked alongside him as senior independent non-executive director since late 2003.
Cob provided CHRIS COLE invaluable advice over a difficult period in the Companys history and CHAIRMAN will be much missed for his incisiveness and understanding of the issues the Company faced.
Last year also saw the retirement of George Burnett who co-founded Ashtead in 1984 when he and a fellow investor purchased what was then a five branch business trading in the south-east of England with revenues of 1m.
George became Group chief executive in February 2000 and led the Group successfully through several difficult years back to the stability and profit that we have enjoyed recently.
On behalf of the Board and the Companys shareholders, I would like to thank George for his contribution over more than two decades and wish him well in his retirement.
The Board and I are delighted to welcome Geoff Drabble as the new chief executive of the Company.
Geoff is well known to Ashtead as he has been a non-executive director since 2005.
He joined us full time in an executive role at the beginning of October 2006 from The Laird Group PLC where he was head of Lairds building products division and an executive director.
Geoff was the preferred candidate of the Nomination Committee after an extensive external and internal search.
He has experience of managing AS6554 Ashtead front V4.
qxd 11 7 07 11:53 am Page 5 5 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT businesses in the US as well as in the UK, and we are already seeing the Revenues benets of his operational expertise.
The year saw some other changes in the composition of the Board.
Firstly 896m Philip Lovegrove retired from the Board having, like George, been a director up 40% since 1984.
The Board would like to thank him for his valuable contribution and advice over many years and wishes him well in his retirement.
Following my appointment as chairman, Hugh Etheridge, who has been a director since 2004, and who is Chief Financial officer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme, has been appointed as our senior independent non-executive director.
In addition, I would like to welcome Underlying pre-tax profits Dividends Michael Burrow who was appointed in March and Bruce Edwards who was appointed in June as new non-executive directors who were selected carefully for their specic areas of expertise and experience.
Michael was 81m 1.65p formerly Managing Director of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman up 21% up 10% Brothers Europe Limited and brings a significant understanding of the financial markets in which we operate whilst Bruce is responsible currently for Deutsche Posts contract logistics functions having previously been a director of Exel PLC until it was acquired by Deutsche Post.
Following these appointments, the Board is now in compliance with all the recommendations of the Combined Code regarding Board composition and As our business expands, acting responsibly and fullling our obligations as importantly, well-balanced to support the Groups strategic performance a good corporate citizen become ever more important.
to meeting our social, ethical and environmental commitments, to ensuring the safety of both our employees and our customers, limiting the impact The major event for Ashtead in the last year was the acquisition in August we make on the environment, and giving back to the communities in which 2006 of NationsRent and we are delighted to have found a business whose we do business.
We expect to expand our reporting of these important store network has a complementary t with our existing US operations.
The NationsRent locations have already been integrated fully and branded into the Sunbelt network and our ongoing focus is to drive up utilisation The commitment and calibre of our people make the difference in a rates at the acquired profit centres and thus also in the combined business.
competitive market and I thank them for their hard work and for their The acquisition has made Ashtead the second largest equipment rental enthusiasm to make Ashtead the preferred supplier in all our markets.
In company in the United States and globally, enabling us to benefit from the addition I welcome our new employees from NationsRent and Lux Trafc strong US market and the progressive move underway in that market from and thank them for their contribution to the successful integration of their ownership to rental.
A further important development of the Group in the year was the As we continue to build on the excellent integration and combination acquisition of Lux Trafc Controls in the UK.
Its integration with A-Plants of the enlarged Sunbelt business in the US, complemented by continuing existing trafc operations has provided the opportunity for higher improved performance from A-Plant and Ashtead Technology in expected value-added earnings and helped make us the market leader in trafc good markets, I am confident we can see further growth in all the Groups management in the UK.
Ashtead Technology also continued to make activities in the future leading to enhanced shareholder value.
excellent progress throughout the year and again presents excellent results.
Concurrently with the NationsRent acquisition, the Group renewed and extended its debt facilities providing both the capacity required to conclude the acquisition and significant exibility for the future.
Our facilities, a total of $2.55bn 1.3bn, are committed for the long term with a weighted CHRIS COLE average remaining life of 6.25 years at 30 April 2007 and are essentially CHAIRMAN non-amortising.
They are also structured in a form appropriate to our 25 June 2007 business being reliant principally on our asset cover for security.
