RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It is my pleasure to present Rightmove plcs financial results majority stake in Holiday Lettings Limited, the fastest for the year ended 31 December 2007. growing major holiday home website in the UK.
Our first full year as a public company was a year of many achievements.
Foremost was the continued delivery Financial results of our proven service to home hunters and our property All these achievements are reected in our full year results, advertisers.
The value they associate with Rightmove is which show a 69% increase in revenue to 56.7m 2006: evident from their usage of our website, with 320 million 33.6m.
Healthy operating margins 54% resulted in visits to the site and one in four people who bought a house significant fall-through to underlying profit before tax which last year first seeing it on Rightmove.
Currently nine out of increased by 77% to 31.4m 2006: 17.7m.
Cash ten homes for sale in the UK are advertised on our website.
balances at the year end were 11.8m 2006: 14.9m after This year, we have also shown that Rightmove is of value a total cost on the share buy back programme of 19.5m.
to our advertisers for far more than simply putting their These financial results are underpinned by strong properties in front of the UKs largest audience of home performance against our key metrics.
Rightmove Choice products, introduced in February have increased by 18% to 19,287 2006: 16,321.
Despite a 2007, assist our customers in promoting their brands tougher housing market in the second half of the year strengths and differentiating their product.
One in five retention rates have stayed within historical ranges of 91- customers has now adopted at least one Rightmove Choice 94%.
We have continued to increase both the value and product during the first year of their introduction.
In addition, number of product offerings we deliver to our members and our best price guide provides agents with objective this has been reected in turn by a healthy 35% increase in evidence to share with their own customers regarding the their average spend with us.
correct pricing of their property, of particular importance The Board announced a 2.0p 2006: 1.5p per ordinary in a tougher housing market.
share interim dividend which was paid on 12 October 2007.
We are equally proud of the increasingly important role Based on our continued cash conversion capabilities, the we play with new homes developers.
We now count all Board proposes to pay a final dividend of 6.0p per ordinary 25 of the largest new homes developers among our growing share which, combined with the interim dividend of 2.0p, customer base.
In addition to their adoption of Choice gives a total dividend for the year of 8.0p 2006: 4.5p a 78% products we have also introduced a highly targeted email increase over last years comparable payments and campaign service which has generated excellent responses in line with earnings growth.
The final dividend, subject to and low customer acquisition costs.
shareholder approval, will be paid on 13 May 2008 to Lastly, Rightmove has also quadrupled the size of its members on the register on 11 April 2008. holiday lettings business following the acquisition of a From continuing operations and before share-based payments, NI on share options under issue, otation and capital reconstruction costs.
02 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The Company also seeks to provide value to shareholders shareholders support his election at the forthcoming by using the significant levels of cash generated from its Annual General Meeting.
operations for share buy backs.
In June 2007, we announced a share buy back programme and ultimately Current trading and outlook acquired 3.3m shares at a total cost of 19.5m during Our 300 plus hard working Rightmove employees remain the period to 31 December 2007. committed to providing greater value added products and In order to provide the Board with greater exibility to services to our customers and home hunters alike.
Thus far, achieve greater returns of capital by way of dividend or share our experience in a softening housing market is that buy backs, we completed a capital reconstruction in the Rightmoves proposition is as relevant as ever.
Indeed, the form of a Scheme of Arrangement on 28 January 2008. tougher the market the more essential it is for agents and As previously announced, shareholders approved the developers to secure enquiries from home hunters.
The transaction which resulted in the creation of a new public subscription business model should provide resilience to company but with no change to the Company name, a direct impact from falling house prices and declining directors, managers or shareholder interests and resulted transaction volumes, though Rightmove will, in all probability, in a 430m increase in distributable reserves.
be operating in an environment where the overall size of the property advertising market is shrinking.
Annual General Meeting Following a positive start to the current year, the Board The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon remains confident that despite a more difficult housing on 6 May 2008 at our ofces at 33 Soho Square, London, market, further significant growth and profitability of the W1D 3QU.
An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed business will be achieved.
and the Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained in a separate document accompanying this report and is also available on the investor relations website.
Board Scott Forbes Colin Kemp was appointed to the Board on 3 July 2007 Chairman following the retirement of Jane Pridgeon as the Halifax Estate Agencies representative.
Colin is Managing Director of the HBOS Retail Bank Network, North Division.
Colin has made a significant contribution to the Company during his brief tenure to date and the Board will recommend that 03
