Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 02 Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Simon Robertson I am very pleased to be able to report that our Company has again performed strongly in 2007.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 03 Governance Financial statements In 2007, Rolls-Royce delivered a strong Our aim is to ensure that our products continue MikeTerrett joined the Board as Chief Operating profit and cash performance.
Our order book to improve the quality of life enjoyed by people Ocer in succession to John Chens, increased by 76 per cent, with the Group across the world, on an environmentally who retired after a long and distinguished enjoying particular success in the growing sustainable basis.
Asian and Middle East markets.
I am particularly pleased that our technological Sir John Taylor also retired from the Board The consistent strategy we have pursued over expertise, which has enabled us to reduce the during the year and I thank him for his many years continues to stand us in good stead.
environmental impact of our engines progressively contribution.
Carl Symon will retire from the We are a long-term business which is designed over the years, is now being harnessed in a number Board at the conclusion of the 2008 AGM to generate returns over many decades.
We believe that and he will be succeeded as Chairman of the The principal goal of the Board is to ensure technology lies at the heart of societys response remuneration committee by Helen Alexander.
that the Groups strategy creates value for to climate change, and we will continue to work I would like to thank Carl Symon for his the long-term investor within an acceptable with governments, customers and industry considerable contribution over many years risk prole.
partners to nd appropriate solutions.
Over the last year, we have carried out a review We are committed to achieving and I would also like to thank management and all of the Groups financial strategy in the light maintaining best practice in all areas of our employees for their dedication, hard work and of the businesscash generation capabilities corporate responsibility because we believe commitment to the Company in another successful and its long-term investment needs.
We have that the resulting benets give us critical year.
I am particularly indebted to my fellow concluded that it is vitally important to retain competitive advantage.
Our strong position directors for the support and guidance they a strong balance sheet in view of the global on the main corporate responsibility indices have given to me personally and to the Group.
markets we address, the long-term relationships reects the good progress we have made 2008 is expected to be a challenging year for with our customers and for the future on this important issue.
However, I am confident development of our business.
However, it is There have been several changes to the Board that our business is well placed.
We have appropriate that shareholders should benefit during the year.
We have welcomed Helen outstanding technology, a broad product from our stronger financial position.
We are, Alexander CBE, Professor Peter Gregson and portfolio, long-term relationships with many therefore, proposing a significant increase John Rishton as new non-executive directors.
customers and a highly skilled workforce.
in our payment to shareholders of 35 per cent, Iain Conn has become the Senior Independent I believe that we will continue to build on reecting the Boards confidence in the outlook Director and John Rishton has been appointed the strong position we have established in for the business.
as the Chairman of the audit committee, the markets we serve.
Rolls-Royce is determined to play a significant in succession to Peter Byrom who remains Simon Robertson Chairman part in addressing climate change.
February 6, 2008 the major part of our research investment to improving the environmental performance of our products.
