ANNUAL REPORT 04 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE PAST YEAR HAS SEEN ROTORK CELEBRATE ITS 50TH ANNIVERSARY IN A PERIOD WHEN STRONG TRADING HAS ENABLED US TO ACHIEVE RECORD RESULTS AND A SOUND POSITION FROM WHICH TO ENTER 2008.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS DIVISIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Rotork Fluid Systems Rotork Gears The past year has seen Rotork Rotork Controls Rotork Fluid Systems continued Rotork Gears produced strong celebrate its 50th anniversary in The oil & gas, power and water its pattern of strong growth results in the year, with sales a period when strong trading in markets, which the Controls established over the last few years, revenue up 31% at 32m and each of our underlying markets Division serves, continued to be and expanded its share of the operating profit up 57% to 7m.
has enabled us to achieve record active in the year particularly in available market as well as We are now the largest results and a sound position from Asia and Europe.
The new capitalising on the significant manufacturer of products of our which to enter 2008.
We have production facility in Shanghai investment currently being seen type, and have production facilities passed a number of milestones had a successful first full year in worldwide in the markets for its in five countries in Europe, the US including record performances in operation and met all of its goals.
Sales revenue grew 18% and Asia.
We can effectively offer terms of revenue and profits from This facility will be of increasing to 48m and operating margin a local service to customers each of the three operating signicance in supporting the achieved our 15% target.
We are wherever they are based from our divisions and nished the year with important Chinese market in increasingly being seen as global facilities.
We are continually our highest ever reported order the future.
providing the actuator of choice improving products and services, book, up 29% at 98m.
Total sales by leading industry participants.
and developing new products for The division increased revenue to revenue was 236m, up 14% on This has been helped by our use on standard and specialist 164m, up 11% on the prior year 2006, and profit before tax exacting approach to product applications.
The net margins in with operating profit at 44m, up increased by 24% to 57.3m.
quality, constant investment in this business have increased as we 18%.
We now believe that the mix The trading gures are after the facilities and products, and our continue to improve efficiency and of facilities that we have in the negative impact of currency in a drive to bring technology originally reduce costs.
Controls Division across the world year where the weakening US developed for our electric actuator gives us the capacity to support dollar reduced the value of part of products into our Fluid Systems our customer base in each of our our earnings.
However, in spite of product offering.
markets for the foreseeable future.
this currency headwind, we were New marketing initiatives took still able to improve operating place in the year and we opened profit margin from 21.8% to our first direct presence in Brazil.
23.5% due to operational gearing and the robustness of Rotorks business model.
At constant currency, sales revenue and profit before tax increased by 18% and 31% respectively.
We take years Annual General Meeting, trading position and good control 2007 and the payment of an great care to deal with these has been a director of Rotork p. l. c. of working capital.
In addition, additional interim dividend for matters responsibly, ensuring for twenty-four years, the last except for a 2m additional 2008.
The final dividend for 2007 that controls and processes are twelve of which he has served as contribution to the UK final salary of 14.0p per share an increase of embedded in working practices Chief Executive.
During his tenure pension scheme, there have been 20% year on year will be paid on where possible and that reporting as Chief Executive, Bill has led the no unusual cash outows in the 9 May 2008 to shareholders on is prompt and transparent.
Group to outstanding success and, year with the result that cash the register on 18 April 2008.
Our increased disclosure this consequently, its world leadership balances increased at the year end A one off additional dividend year underscores the importance position in its specialised sector to over 38m.
Subsequent to the of 10m 11.5p per share will which we attach to these matters.
and its position as a highly rated year end, we announced two be paid on 18 July 2008 to constituent of the FTSE 250.
The acquisition of shareholders on the register on leaves a strong and experienced John Matthews has been the Remote Controls Sweden was 27 June 2008. executive team who under the Senior Independent Director completed on 30 January 2008 leadership of his successor, Peter PERFORMANCE AND RISK since joining the Board in 1998 for a consideration of 13m.
France, are well placed to deliver In his Business Review, the and for much of this time has Much smaller, but strategically further growth.
On behalf of the Chief Executive discusses the chaired both Audit and important, was the acquisition of Board I extend to Bill our application of the Groups Remuneration Committees.
the intellectual property and appreciation and gratitude for his approach to performance Having now completed nine years business of the Drallim SVM enormous contribution and wish measurement through KPIs, on the Board, John will retire product on 13 February 2008, him well for the future.
our approach to the assessment at the forthcoming AGM.
Both of these and mitigation of risk, and how He leaves with our best wishes OUTLOOK transactions were settled for cash.
and appreciation for his much Projects across nearly all of our valued advice and support.
geographic and end user markets remain active.
Order intake at the I am pleased to welcome John start of the year has been Nicholas to the Board as a nonparticularly buoyant, including executive director.
John is currently a strong start from our North Group Finance Director of Tate & American and Chinese operations.
Lyle plc prior to which he held the In contrast with recent years, it same position at Kidde plc.
He will would appear that our trading chair the Audit Committee and be results are likely to be enhanced a member of both the Nomination by a more favourable currency and Remuneration Committees.
