CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MEYER KAHN Dear Shareholder Our portfolio of developing and developed Its been a tough year for Miller, our North market operations generated 10% organic American business, with rising commodity growth in lager volumes and 12% growth in costs and intense price competition This has been another earnings before interest, tax and amortisation continuing to diminish the value of the beer successful year for the EBITA on an organic, constant currency market.
As a result, EBITA for the period basis.
Group EBITA now stands at of US$375 million was 17% lower than group, with a strong US$3,591 million and the group EBITA the previous year.
Nevertheless, we are margin increased to 17.4%, a rise of undeterred and the leadership team has a volume performance and 20 basis points over the prior year.
This clear plan to return the business to growth.
translated into a 14% increase in profit Our portfolio of businesses in Africa has before tax to US$2,804 million and a 10% performed well and we now see much increase in adjusted earnings per share greater economic stability in these markets.
In Asia, our Chinese associate continues Total lager volumes stood at 216 million to power ahead, with the Snow brand hectolitres, up 10% organically, and up 23% established as the national leader.
In India, after taking into account the first full year volumes were up strongly, albeit from a small of contributions from our South American base.
EBITA for the Africa and Asia region businesses.
Including soft drinks and other was US$467 million, up 11% despite beverages, the group achieved total beverage currency weakness in some countries.
volumes of 272 million hectolitres, up 10% on an organic basis and 23% above last In South Africa, new marketing and pack year on a reported basis.
innovations continued to drive growth in the premium lager category while soft drinks Net cash generated from operations, at sales were strong, particularly in the final over US$4,000 million, was 22% above the quarter.
The result was a good earnings prior year, reflecting the overall strength performance, with EBITA of US$1,102 of the trading performance and our strong million, a 14% increase on a constant cash characteristics.
The groups gearing currency basis.
The loss of the licence to decreased at the year end to 45.8% from brew a major premium beer in South Africa last years 52.3%.
in March 2007 had no impact on The board has proposed a final dividend performance in the period under review.
of 36 US cents per share, making a total Continuing growth of 50 US cents per share for the year, an This has been a busy year, with the increase of 14% over the prior year.
The group actively shaping and expanding dividend is covered 2.4 times by adjusted its international portfolio of businesses.
Acquisitions and joint ventures in China, Operational highlights Vietnam, Australia and Angola have been Europe delivered an excellent full-year further steps in creating an attractive, performance, its sixth consecutive year of international spread of businesses double-digit earnings growth, with EBITA with good exposure to fast growing, of US$733 million, up 29% on a reported developing markets.
Poland and Russia continued their run Along with our wide international footprint of strong growth while Romania increased its now covering over 60 countries on six volumes by 23%.
It was also pleasing to see continents, we continue to benefit from a solid improvement in profitability from Italy.
Since our UK listing In Latin America, our strategy is delivering in 1999, our lager volumes have grown from volume, revenue and earnings growth 48 million to 216 million hectolitres a year ahead of our expectations, with EBITA of an increase of 350%.
Over the same period, US$915 million.
New brand launches and group adjusted earnings have risen from package renovations are beginning to lift US$394 million to US$1,796 million.
As a the image of beer in consumers minds and result, total shareholder return since 1999 contributed to an acceleration of volume stands at 217% compared with 31% for growth in the second half of the year.
We the FTSE 100 as a whole as measured at also continue to benefit from the regions 31 March 2007. strong economic growth.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Chairmans statement For more information on our share price and dividend history, visit 4 www.
com en gb Investors Shares Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Share price 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2007 sterling 14.00 12.00 10.00 8.00 6.00 4.00 2.00 02 03 04 05 06 07 Source: Thomson Datastream This is a strong record and due in no small One of these priorities is to promote the As part of our responsibility to shareholders, measure to the rigorous application of a responsible consumption of alcohol, and we we aim to observe the highest standards of clear, consistent strategy, designed to reap support programmes around the world that corporate governance.
To this end, we have maximum rewards from the opportunities address the misuse of alcohol.
That said, further refined our reporting processes to align we face.
On the following pages our Chief we disagree with broad regulatory proposals them more closely to the UK governments Executive, Graham Mackay, gives more for reducing consumption in the general OFR requirements.
The changes are reflected details of the strategy itself and how its population.
We question whether such in this years Annual Report.
application has contributed to our growth proposals would succeed and believe they Outlook in the past year.
may have unintended consequences such This has been another year of good growth as fostering illicit alcohol production, with But its not just about growth, for we also for the group, with a particularly strong significant health risks for consumers.
take great pride in the quality of our product.
performance in the fourth quarter.
They would also penalise the overwhelming Our high standards have again been majority of our consumers who enjoy our We have established a compelling portfolio of recognised in a long list of brewing awards.
brands and businesses and, given the strong We were particularly pleased that Miller was growth in many markets, we will be increasing recognised as US Brewmaster of the Year In January 2007, SABMiller committed itself our investments behind these assets in the at the World Beer Cup.
to the ten principles of the UN Global coming year.
While we face some challenges, Compact that seeks progress in human and including increasing commodity cost labour rights, environmental protection and pressures and the need to rebuild our share Miller Lite Americantackling corruption.
Our alignment with the Style Light Lager of the premium segment in South Africa, we UN in this way supports the implementation Miller High Life expect the groups underlying progress of of our own sustainable development American-Style Lager recent years to continue.
framework and ensures we align with Icehouse America-Style Speciality Lager worldwide best practice.
Henry Weinhards Classic Our people Meyer Kahn Dark American-Style We were delighted to welcome John Chairman Dark Lager Davidson, who joined the group in August, as our new General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
Our thanks go to his Sustainable development predecessor, Andrew Tonkinson, for 14 years In seeking to do the best for the countries of excellent service to the board.
In May and communities in which we operate, 2007, we announced that Nancy fide Lisi had we believe we contribute most by simply stepped down from the board following her running successful businesses that create retirement from the Altria Group.
We thank jobs and stimulate local economic activity.
her, too, for her outstanding contribution to A recent study by the Bureau for Economic our deliberations and wish her a long and Research in South Africa supports this view happy retirement.
Altrias nominee as her by revealing that our South African business, successor is Dinyar Devitre, Senior Vice as well as employing 8,600 people directly, President and Chief Financial Officer, whom supports 46,000 jobs among first-round we welcomed to the board on 16 May.
suppliers and over five times that number in the wider economy.
Every rand in sales We are fortunate in the high calibre of revenue generated by the business adds our directors and I would like to thank all R1.80 to South Africas GDP.
my board colleagues for their wise counsel and strategic advice during the year.
As mentioned last year, our approach to I also recognise that this years strong corporate responsibility has been codified performance reflects the dedication and hard in ten environmental and social priorities.
work of all our executives, managers and All our businesses are now embedding these staff around the world.
My thanks go also priorities into their operations and striving to to them as well as to our business partners ensure that they meet the required standards.
and to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
Our Sustainable Development Report 2007 is available at Chairmans statement SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 5 www.
com en gb Our responsibility
