The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 02 About Sage | Chairmans welcome Sage recorded another year of strong financial results, with good growth and profitability across all our regions.
The UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe and Rest of World regions all reported excellent performances for the year.
North America delivered good profitability and substantially expanded its scale in the US through strategically important acquisitions in 2006.
In light of our on-going financial and commercial strength and our commitment to creating shareholder value, we are rebasing our dividend and are, as a result, significantly increasing our dividend for the full year.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 03 of our on-going financial and commercial On 1 November 2007, Ian Mason, Chief Dear Shareholder strength and our commitment to creating Executive of Electrocomponents plc, joined Sage recorded another year of strong shareholder value, we are rebasing our the Board as a non-executive director.
Mark dividend and are, as a result, significantly Rolfe, former Finance Director of Gallaher financial results, with good growth and profitability across all our regions.
The UK & increasing our dividend for the full year.
Group plc, joined the Board on 1 December It is our intention to follow a progressive 2007 as a non-executive director and will Ireland, Mainland Europe and Rest of World regions all reported excellent performances dividend policy.
from 1 April 2008 chair the Audit Committee.
We welcome Messrs Mason and Rolfe to for the year.
North America delivered good profitability and substantially expanded As a result of the rebasing of the dividend, the Board and look forward to their the proposed final dividend is being raised valuable contributions.
its scale in the US through strategically important acquisitions in 2006.
These to 5.73p per share 2006: 2.51p per share, giving a full year dividend of 7.00p per share On 11 October 2007, as part of the achievements result from a consistent and focused business strategy, underpinned 2006: 3.59p per share, an increase of 95%.
reorganisation of our North American business, Ron Verni CEO, North America by continuing investment in our products, services and underlying systems as well Board changes stepped down from the Sage Board as I was appointed Chairman on 25 May 2007, executive director.
We thank Mr Verni for his as the expertise and commitment of our colleagues.
We thank all our people for their following the resignation of Sir Julian Hornlong service to Sage and for successfully Smith on 26 April 2007.
We thank Sir Julian developing our North American business.
contribution to our success over the year.
for his contribution to Sage during his tenure.
Outlook Increase in dividend The Board is strongly committed to enhancing We subsequently welcomed three new The new year has started well, with all Board members.
David Clayton joined the regions performing in line with our shareholder value.
Over the past year, the Board reviewed Sages capital requirements, Board on 1 October 2007 as Group expectations.
Whilst we recognise the Strategy and Mergers and Acquisitions current uncertainties in the macro-economic including future investment in our products and services, potential acquisition funding and Director, an executive board position.
situation, the defensive characteristics of our Mr Clayton will focus on long-term strategic business mean that we are well placed to on-going commitment to creating shareholder value.
Following that review, we are pleased to planning and our acquisition strategy.
He was previously a non-executive director announce a rebasing of our dividend.
We are confident that our consistently strong cash of Sage and Senior Independent Director.
Tony Hobson Tim Ingram, non-executive director of Sage, Chairman flows and recurring revenue streams provide a solid foundation for future growth through both became Senior Independent Director, taking over from Mr Clayton on 25 July 2007. organic and acquisition-led investment.
In light About Sage Chairmans welcome
