8 Serco Group plc Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Kevin Beeston, Chairman I am delighted to report on another year of strong growth.
The success we have achieved in 2007 underpins our confidence in delivering double-digit growth for the foreseeable future.
Chairmans statement Serco Group plc 9 Financial results DeAnne Julius retired on 29 October 2007 Growing markets and higher margins I am delighted to report on another year of as a Non-Executive Director and from her underpin positive outlook strong growth.
Revenue grew by 10.3% post as Senior Independent Director.
Our markets continue to generate a broad to 2,811m, Adjusted profit before tax I would like to thank her for her considerable range of high-quality opportunities for Adjusted PBT rose by 17.3% to contribution to our development and wish Serco, both in the UK and internationally.
123.2m and Adjusted earnings per share her well.
Baroness Ford of Cunninghame The success we have achieved in 2007 grew 16.6% to 18.57p.
The Adjusted PBT was appointed the new Senior Independent underpins our confidence in delivering margin increased from 4.1% to 4.4%, Director from the same date.
double-digit growth for the foreseeable benefiting from our management of the future.
At the same time, our focus on contract portfolio and continued efficiency Thomas Corcoran joined Serco as a Nonmanaging our contract portfolio, enhancing improvements.
Profit before tax rose by Executive Director on 3 December 2007. our efficiency and bidding selectively for 6.7% to 114.6m and earnings per share Thomas is a member of the Remuneration, higher-value work will allow us to further were 2.2% higher at 16.98p.
Profit before Audit, Nomination and Training and increase our margins and we expect a 30 tax and earnings per share in 2006 Development committees.
basis point improvement in our Adjusted included the benefit of the one-off gain on PBT margin in each of 2008 and 2009. sale of our PFI investments.
Managing our growth One of Sercos great strengths is its longI look forward to reporting to shareholders Our cash performance continued to be term customer relationships.
We nurture on our progress in 2008. strong, with Group free cash flow these by devolving responsibility to the increasing 14.3% to 97.6m.
This contract level, giving our people the contributed to a reduction in Group freedom to anticipate and respond to recourse net debt of more than 34m to customers changing requirements.
The strength of our balance This delivers excellent organic growth but sheet was further enhanced by the it also creates a need to make sure that decline in our net pension liabilities.
these actions are applied consistently and in the best interests of Serco and its Dividend shareholders.
Sercos policy is to increase the total dividend each year broadly in line with the Over many years, we have developed a increase in underlying earnings.
The robust system of governance and internal Board has proposed a final dividend of controls, which we call the Serco 3.02p per share, representing an increase Management System.
It covers all areas on the 2006 final dividend of 18.4% and of our operations, from finance through to bringing the total dividend for the year to bidding for new contracts, and we 4.25p, growth of 18.1%.
The final continue to evolve it to ensure it keeps dividend will be paid on 21 May 2008 to pace with Sercos rapid development.
shareholders on the register on This allows us to operate in a devolved 7 March 2008. manner while ensuring consistency and an upward line of accountability and Board control to the Board.
The quality of these There were a number of changes to the processes is evident in our operational composition of the Board during the year.
The right As announced on 31 August 2006, balance between flexibility and control is I moved from Executive Chairman to essential and maintaining this balance will Non-Executive Chairman on 1 September ensure a successful future for Serco.
Grant Rumbles, our Chief Operating Officer, was appointed an Executive Director on 3 July 2007.
