SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group performed very well in 2007 with all of our core businesses contributing to record results.
Peter Levine PETER LEVINE CHAIRMAN Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 07 BIRMINGHAM HOSPITAL Birminghams new 1,200 bed super hospital is being built on the 50 acre site of the old Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Edgbaston and will become part of the largest healthcare facility in the UK outside of London.
Covering some 170,000 sqm, the hospital comprises more than 10,000 tonnes of structural steelwork, including approximately 700 tonnes of Fabsec plated beams.
Severfield-Reeve Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 08 Chairmans Statement Introduction Another Great Year Dividend Improved Returns On behalf of the Board I am delighted to report that the Group With the record results announced today and in view of the performed extremely well in 2007 with all of our core businesses strength of our financial position, the directors are pleased to yet again delivering record productivity and customer service, and announce a 40.4% increase in the full dividend for the year to producing record results.
20.0p per share which is covered 1.8 times by underlying earnings.
The final dividend is 13.25p per share 2006: 9.25p payable on In spite of the challenging global financial market conditions the 16 June 2008 to shareholders on the register on 16 May 2008. towards the end of the year, the financial strength of SeverfieldRowen combined with increasing demand for the Fisher Engineering Groups differentiated services underline our confidence in the The acquisition of Fisher Engineering was completed in October Groups long-term growth prospects.
2007 at a total cost of 92.2 million of which 36.6 million was paid in shares and the balance in cash.
Overview Further Growth In 2007 underlying operating profit before amortisation of Based in Enniskillen, Northern Ireland, the company has an acquired intangible assets of 2.2 million and the movement in established track record as a very successful and profitable valuation of derivative financial instruments of 2.39 million fabricator in both the province and Eire and its incorporation into increased by 46.6% to a record 42.68 million 2006: 29.12 the Group has been speedy and effective.
We look forward to million on increased revenue of 300.7 million 2006: 295.1 Fishers making a significant contribution to the Group in 2008 million.
The underlying operating margin increased to 14.2% and beyond.
These impressive results were largely due to our At the time of purchase, Ian Cochrane, the Managing Director of quality service level, underpinned by a focus on prime projects.
Fishers, joined our main Board.
A planned upgrade investment All of our core businesses performed strongly with a focus on highof some 2.5 million was completed in 2007, prior to the margin, prime projects.
Accordingly, underlying profit before tax acquisition, and is now providing the strategic productivity was 41.8% higher at 42.9 million 2006: 30.3 million producing improvements envisaged.
a 39.4% increase in underlying basic earnings per share of 35.74p 2006: 25.64p.
The underlying profit before tax margin increased Dalton Airfield Estate to 14.3% 2006: 10.3%.
During the same period as the Fisher acquisition, the Group acquired the freehold reversion of Dalton, the Groups Retained profit after tax was 26.4 million 2006: 20.9 million.
headquarters, from certain directors and management for the sum The Groups net assets increased to 116.8 million 2006: 66.2 of 23.5 million.
The acquisition has a positive effect and means million.
Following the funding of the Fisher Engineering acquisition Severfield regains control of this valuable extensive headquarters and the purchase of the Dalton Property, we ended the year with and fabrication site thereby giving it both the flexibility in further net borrowings of 48.1 million 2006: net funds 38.2 million.
development and an increased asset base.
We increased our leading position in the structural steel industry Board Changes and are involved in many significant projects and developments.
We are particularly pleased that all of the Companys core Chairmanship subsidiaries in 2007, namely SeverfieldReeve Structures, Watson With effect from the close of the Companys AGM on 30 May Steel Structures, Atlas Ward Structures, Rowen Structures, Fisher 2008 I will step down both as Chairman and Main Board director Engineering and Steelcraft Erection Services, contributed to our of SeverfieldRowen.
Having been first Deputy Chairman for a numbers of years, then Chairman for the last ten years, it is time to pass on the baton.
In Heathrow Terminal 5 all those years it has been an honour to be part of the team that Notable among our recent completed projects was Heathrow has made Severfield the pre-eminent force in our industry.
It has Airports new Terminal 5, which has received worldwide acclaim furthermore been a privilege to work alongside first the creator of not only for its impressive visual impact, but more fundamentally the modern Severfield, John Severs, and latterly the team that I for the completion of its construction on time and on budget.
The have no doubt will take it forward to further prosperity and success, Group should be extremely proud of this achievement.
namely Tom Haughey, Peter Emerson, and their management colleagues.
Shareholders should have every confidence that the future of Severfield is in good hands and I express sincere thanks to all my colleagues and our employees for their friendship and support to me over many years.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 09 TESCO, LIVINGSTON Covering an area of 85,000 sqm, this new Distribution Centre will serve Scotlands 100 Tesco stores, helping the Scottish economy as products can be picked locally and distributed in Scotland.
The project comprises 3,750 tonnes of fabricated steelwork, 40 tonnes of which are Fabsec bespoke plated beams.
Atlas Ward Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 10 Chairmans Statement continued My replacement as Chairman is to be Toby Hayward.
Toby Proposed Board structure post-AGM provides both valuable accounting background, being a Chartered Main Board Accountant, qualifying with Deloitte and Touche, and has very Toby Hayward Non-Executive Chairman extensive city experience.
For the last 2 years he has been with Tom Haughey Chief Executive Officer Jefferies International Limited.
Peter Emerson Chief Operating Officer Peter Davison Finance Director John Featherstone Keith Elliott Senior Non-Executive Director Also with effect from the close of the Companys AGM, John David Ridley Non-Executive Director Featherstone, one of our non-executive directors, will be standing Geoff Wright Non-Executive Director down.
I have known John since he joined our Board twenty years ago, as our then sole non-executive and he has provided invaluable Divisional Executive Managing Directors support throughout that time.
The Company owes him much Peter Ellison Steelcraft Erection Services gratitude and wishes him and his wife health, happiness and a Brian Hick SeverfieldReeve Structures lengthy and vibrant retirement.
Nigel Pickard Atlas Ward Structures Ian Cochrane Fisher Engineering Board Reorganisation Taking into account my departure and that of John Featherstone, Employees Key to Success the decision has been taken to rationalise and streamline the Board The consistent achievements of the Group continue to reflect structure.
directly on the excellent management and workforce.
The directors sincere gratitude is extended to them.
Accordingly, with effect from close of business of the forthcoming AGM, Peter Ellison, Brian Hick, Nigel Pickard and Ian Cochrane will Outlook Still Positive step down as Main Board members but will of course continue as executive managing directors of their own companies being The Groups prospects are very good.
Our position remains robust respectively Steelcraft, SeverfieldReeve, Atlas Ward and Fisher and demand for our services continues to be significant, particularly Engineering.
I express my and the Boards appreciation of their larger projects, as exemplified by our record order book and as important support to the Main Board and look forward to many observed by other leading construction contractors.
years of continued contributions to the Group through a new Executive Management Committee.
We have begun this year well and are confident of further success in 2008 and beyond, including the Companys expressed objective of exploring overseas ventures.
Peter Levine Chairman 19982008 2 May 2008 Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 11 WIMBLEDON, LONDON The multi-million pound redevelopment of Wimbledons famous Centre Court includes enlarging the bowl to increase capacity from 13,800 to 15,000 and a new 5,200 sqm, 16 m high retractable roof.
The project incorporates 3,900 tonnes of fabricated steelwork.
The retractable roof is to be in operation for the 2009 Championships.
Watson Steel Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
