Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on a year of significant restructuring for the Severn Trent group of companies which allows us to implement our focus on water business strategy.
In June 2006 the board announced its intention to restructure Severn Trent.
Biffa Plc was successfully demerged on 9 October 2006, the sale of Severn Trent Property was completed on 6 November 2006 and the sale of US Laboratories was concluded at the end of December 2006.
In addition, group balance sheet efficiency has been improved by Sir John Egan the payment on 20 October 2006 of a 575 million special dividend Chairman to shareholders.
As previously announced, the board intends to maintain group debt at I am pleased to report on a year of significant around the target 60% of regulated capital value, and to continue to restructuring for the Severn Trent group increase dividends by 3% above the rate of inflation at least up to 2010, of companies which allows us to implement the remainder of the regulatory review period.
our focus on water business strategy.
The current market capitalisation of the smaller and focused Severn Trent at 3.5 billion is greater than it was at the end of 2004.
Shareholders have received a demerged Biffa worth 1.1 billion and have received a special dividend of 575 million.
Severn Trent Waters customers top priority is the safety and reliability of their drinking water and we have a strong track record on this.
We have consistently achieved 99.9% compliance with water quality standards since 1997, which represents one of the best compliance records in our industry.
Over and above these basic requirements, management is developing detailed plans for fundamental improvements across all areas of the business as outlined in the review by our Group Chief Executive, Colin Matthews.
Group results Overall, Severn Trent has delivered a positive performance in 2006 07, with group profit from continuing operations before tax, IAS 39 fair value adjustments and exceptional items at 252 million and group profit from continuing operations before tax was 325.5 million, an increase of 83.1%.
In line with our declared policy, the board is proposing a final dividend of 38.68 pence 31.97 pence to be paid on 3 August 2007.
This would give a total dividend for the year, excluding the special dividend paid on 20 October 2006, of 61.45 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 20.2%.
Corporate responsibility When I was invited to join the Severn Trent Plc board and became its Chairman I did not know the full extent of the challenges which the board and new incoming management team were to uncover and the immense commitment of time and energy which has been needed to manage these issues.
There is no point in dwelling unduly on the 2000 to 2004 era to apportion blame or responsibility as this does not help customers or shareholders.
There is, however, every point in me stating here on behalf of the board and management team that we have already accepted the responsibility for making things right.
I believe that you will see from the considerable work outlined in this annual report what we have achieved so far and the considerable work that we are determined still to do.
We are waiting to learn from Ofwat and the Serious Fraud Office the conclusion of investigations into reporting irregularities made to Ofwat by Severn Trent Water.
4 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Direction We are continuing to co-operate fully to restore confidence in Severn It is expected that the consideration of the two roles into one leading to Trent Water going forward and we acknowledge that further amends may the appointment of Mr Wray as Chief Executive and the retirement of Mr be made to customers, depending on the outcome of the investigations.
Matthews from the board and the company will take place around the end of 2007.
In response to Ofwats interim report of March 2006 concerning allegations of false reporting made against Severn Trent Water in 2004, Martin Bettington, Managing Director of Biffa Plc, stood down from we have already credited customer accounts and altered bills Severn Trent Plc when Biffa was demerged in October.
I thank him for appropriately for subsequent years.
his tremendous contribution to Severn Trent in helping to grow Biffa to the point where it is now an independent FTSE 250 company valued at We have taken and will continue to take, all actions we think appropriate more than 1 billion.
to ensure the maintenance of both high ethical and professional standards and resilient and effective controls throughout our companies.
Marisa Cassoni stood down from the board in October after 5 years as a non-executive director.
I thank her for her contribution, particularly her Our new strategy on corporate responsibility CR is to support the new membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
management teams drive for excellence by achieving high standards on a range of CR issues.
Rachel Brydon Jannetta stood down from the board in December 2006 on completion of the sale of the US Laboratories, our US analytical Those issues include: climate change: the local environment: engagement environmental testing firm, to TestAmerica Holdings.
As President and with local communities: health and safety: business ethics, diversity and CEO of Severn Trent Laboratories, she made a significant contribution to investing in people.
Further details of our CR strategy, values and action Severn Trent during her 11 years with the company and the last two plans are set out on the Severn Trent website www.
years on the board during a period of significant change.
To be effective, a companys CR strategy must be fully integrated with its As part of our strategy of focusing on water, all the current executive core business planning.
The strategic and organisational change that and non-executive directors of Severn Trent Plc now hold similar took place within Severn Trent in 2006 07 has reinforced this.
positions on the board of Severn Trent Water Limited.
Since March As described later in this Annual Report, Severn Trent Water has 2007 the boards of directors of Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent determined 20 critical success factors and adopted 20 KPIs, by which it Water Limited have been identical.
will measure performance and set targets.
Many of these indicators link We have carried out rigorous board effectiveness reviews with the help directly to Severn Trent Waters CR strategy for example, the KPIs on of independent consultants, which have generated a number of actions health and safety, leakage, net energy use, pollution incidents and to secure improvements to board performance.
This ensures that CR is entrenched at the very core of Severn Trents activities.
I would also like to pay a special tribute to our committed staff whose performance in a year of exceptional challenge and change has been In addition, Severn Trents Corporate Responsibility Committee, a board outstanding, ensuring we continue to achieve our business goals.
committee, has introduced a more structured approach to reviewing all areas of our CR performance.
Investment proposition Severn Trent is a high quality business whose investment programme Take climate change for example.
This has risen up the political and drives strong growth prospects.
The management team has a clear and public agenda in 2006 07.
Severn Trent Water has focused strategy and is engaged in the single minded pursuit of higher been engaged in planning for the changing climate for a number of standards as the means to achieve both higher levels of customer years.
We have built a leading reputation in this area with key satisfaction and sustained strong financial returns to shareholders.
stakeholders such as the Carbon Trust.
Outlook Severn Trent Waters work on climate change focuses on two main The outlook for the coming year is one of significant improvement, with aspects: mitigating our impact on climate change, and adapting to it.
In our plans indicating that we will meet the Ofwat determination for turn, mitigation has two main aspects: energy efficiency initiatives and operating costs in 2007 08.
This improvement is driven by the fall in in-house renewable energy production, primarily biogas combined heat energy prices with prices now fixed for 2007 08, our total energy costs and power CHP.
The effects of our work in both these areas are will be around 17 million lower than 2006 07, and the delivery of reflected in our KPI on net energy use.
efficiency savings of 5 million through the implementation of our Board, management and staff improvement plans.
The board of Severn Trent Plc continually reviews its management plans Our plans encompass the medium and longer term, in some cases to ensure orderly succession and continuity of leadership.
extending beyond the end of the current AMP4 period.
Delivering After a year of great strategic change, Chief Executive Colin Matthews is sustained improvement will result in cost efficiencies being realised, reshaping the group to focus on water aided by Tony Wray, Managing but will necessitate investment to succeed.
Director of Severn Trent Water, who is concentrating on improving With the exception of any unforeseen variation in commodity prices Severn Trent Water day to day operations.
As the priority switches more principally energy, we expect that the achievement of our plans and more to implementing the improvement plans announced by Mr will enable us to deliver around 30 million of cost efficiencies over Matthews, the two roles will combine.
the last two years of the AMP4 period, which represents around 3% The board therefore wishes to provide clarity and confidence to annual outperformance against the Ofwat determination for operating customers, employees and shareholders that there will be a smooth costs, without affecting our ability to deliver the 6% efficiency on the leadership transition in due course from Mr Matthews to Mr Wray capital programme.
particularly now that detailed preparations are underway to achieve an appropriate regulatory settlement for 2010 to 2015.
