Financial Performance The market for Contaminated Land Services in the year was I am pleased to report a significant improvement in performance significantly reduced from a particularly strong 2005 6. for the year to 31 March 2007.
Headline profit profit from Nevertheless, a number of smaller projects have been completed continuing operations before exceptional items and tax rose making a positive contribution to results.
15% to 39.2m 2006: 34.0m driven principally by a strong performance in the Netherlands following the Smink acquisition The logistics and recycling business has recorded substantial in June 2006.
Adjusted basic earnings per share improved 18% increases in trading profit fuelled in part by two acquisitions in to 11.3p from last years 9.6p following a 1% reduction in the the Central Belt of Scotland for a total consideration of 12m.
As a result your Board is recommending a 5% increase in final dividend to 4.0p per share Our two landfill joint ventures have also traded well showing 2006: 3.8p per share which, if approved by shareholders, increases on the already strong performance recorded last year.
brings the total dividend for the year to 5.9p per share 2006: 5.7p per share.
Belgium Operating profit improved 10% to 17.3m 2006: 15.7m.
All Revenue from continuing operations increased 15% to 509m geographic regions recorded increased profits contributing to this 2006: 442m and profit before tax was 46.1m 2006: pleasing result.
In particular household waste diverted to our 30.3m after a 6.9m non cash gain 2006: 3.7m charge on landfill from public sector incinerators, which were suffering the change in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
temporary shut downs, prevented the expected decline in landfill performance.
During the year borrowings relating to the core business increased by 58m to 134m 2006: 76m after acquisition The 10 year contract for municipal waste collection signed in July expenditure totalling 65m.
Private Finance Initiative PFI 2005 with the City of Lige is fully operational and contributing company debt also increased by 18m to 123m 2006: according to its plan.
105m following continued capital investment in the East London Waste Authority ELWA and Dumfries & Galloway D&G The acquisition of Stordeur, a small waste collection company, in projects.
Wallonia was completed for a consideration of 0.6m.
Divisional Review The Netherlands United Kingdom Netherlands activities delivered a strong performance with Operating profit from continuing operations decreased by 0.9m operating profits increasing 32% to 31.0m 2006: 23.5m.
to 3.2m 2006: 4.1m following lower contributions from PFI projects and Contaminated Land Services.
The largest contribution to this improvement was the company Smink Beheer BV which was acquired by the Group for a net Phase I of the project at Frog Island on the north bank of the consideration of 43m at the end of June 2006.
This acquisition river Thames is now fully commissioned and operating at extends our geographic coverage eastward from our strong capacity.
Phase II of the project suffered a delay caused by the presence in the Randstad area.
The early performance has been insolvency of a subcontractor.
The supplier has been rescued as in line with our plans and synergy opportunities with our existing a going concern and all equipment has now been delivered.
business are now being exploited.
Commissioning has commenced in line with the revised timetable with the objective of achieving full operations over the One further acquisition complementing our existing solid waste summer.
As this is later than expected operating costs will be activities was completed for a consideration of 10m.
The higher during the delay period.
A programmed price increase in majority of these solid waste businesses enhanced their profits Summer 2007 will enhance profitability following recent higher during the year as the programme of price and efficiency costs associated with the operation of new facilities.
Like the increases delivered improvements following the negative impact ELWA project, the D&G contract is serviced using the innovative in 2005 6 accruing from the closing off of low cost recycling Mechanical Biological Treatment MBT technology developed outlets in Germany.
The D&G plant is also fully commissioned and operating normally.
There has been Our hazardous waste divisions in total also delivered a better significant interest from the cement industry in the Solid result than in the prior year.
Recovered Fuel SRF produced by the MBT process and large scale deliveries have commenced.
Further increases are Central Services programmed when ELWA Phase II is commissioned.
Central Services costs rose by 20% to 5.3m 2006: 4.4m.
Higher recruitment costs and increase of National Insurance As previously reported a stricter interpretation of landfill contributions on share options were the largest elements of the regulations by the Scottish Environment Protection Agency SEPA movement.
has caused substantially increased costs on the former local authority landfill sites within our Scottish PFI projects.
A mitigation programme has commenced and is beginning to bear fruit.
annual report 2007 Developments Directorate United Kingdom Your Group Chief Executive, Michael Averill, has an agreement In November 2006 the Group was appointed as preferred bidder with the company whereby he could retire at age 57, an event for the 25 year contract to manage the waste of Cumbria County now less than one year away.
The Board therefore considered it Council.
Negotiations continue and it is expected that the prudent to commence a search for his replacement in good time contract will commence in 2008. and is delighted to announce the appointment to the Board of Tom Drury age 45 as Group Chief Executive Designate, with Offers are also being made for numerous similar local authority effect from 3 September 2007.
Michael Averill will stand down contracts as the Group seeks to capitalise on progress already from his present position and resign from the Board on 30 made with the MBT technology in this market.
The UK September 2007, and at that time Tom Drury will assume Government estimates that at least 10bn must be spent on Michaels role.
Michael will however be retained in an advisory new infrastructure to process municipal waste if the capacity until May 2008. requirements of the European Union EU Landfill Directive are to be met.
The March 2007 Budget announced an increase in the Following an early career with Unilever and Landfill Tax escalator.
From April 2008 it will increase from 3 , since 1991 Tom Drury has had a per tonne per annum to 8 per tonne per annum.
The Tax, distinguished career with United Utilities plc, and was appointed currently 24 per tonne, will therefore rise to 32 per tonne in a main Board director in 2005.
In 1996 he was appointed 2008 and continue with a 8 per tonne annual increase until a Managing Director of Vertex, and until the recent sale of the rate of 48 per tonne is reached in 2010.
This change should business to US private equity, was responsible for taking Vertex accelerate the development of the local authority market.
to a leading position in the UKs highly competitive business process outsourcing market, with turnover of circa 400m, over The Tax will also provide a substantial disincentive for the 9,000 employees, and a blue chip client base.
landfilling of Industrial and Commercial I&C waste.
This change together with the regulatory requirement from October 2007 to The Board is delighted that Tom has agreed to accept the pre treat all waste prior to landfill will provide further stimulus to position of Group Chief Executive of Shanks, and we look forward the Groups emerging I&C recycling activities.
Three recent Government policy proposals on Planning, Energy During his 13 years as Group Chief Executive Michael has and Waste published in late May 2007 provide endorsement for successfully overcome many challenges, and he will be delivering the Shanks strategy.
Household waste recycling is to be to his successor a strong company, which is well positioned to increased, landfill reduced and there will be greater emphasis on benefit from the rapid changes that are taking place in the waste renewable energy, including, from SRF.
Planning for these major management sector.
The Board offers sincere thanks for his items of infrastructure should also be simplified.
leadership and contribution over the years and wishes him every success for the future.
It is expected that the market for Contaminated Land Services will improve in 2007 8 particularly with opportunities to Ian Clubb retired as your Chairman at the 2006 AGM.
At the decontaminate sites which will be used for the 2012 London 2007 meeting both Philippe Delaunois and Barry Pointon will Olympic Games.
also retire from the Group.
I thank all retiring directors for their positive contributions and wise counsel and wish them well for The Netherlands the future.
Since the end of the year under review the Group has completed the acquisition of a Randstad solid waste business for a I am also delighted to welcome Eric van Amerongen, a Dutch consideration of 3m.
This company, Kluivers was purchased national, and Stephen Riley to the Board.
They bring great from its management.
international and electricity industry experience respectively.
More importantly, in mid April 2007, the company Orgaworld was Outlook purchased for 10m, 3m of which is deferred, with the Recent changes across the Group have positioned Shanks within potential for further payments up to 14m dependent on future growth markets.
It has a strong balance sheet, and the profits growth.
This company is involved in the composting and resources and skills are in place to capitalise on market anaerobic digestion of biodegradable waste and brings a new opportunities.
I am therefore confident of further progress in the technology and expertise which can be exploited Group wide over current year and for the future.
Belgium As landfill volumes are expected to decline the Group continues to search for acquisitions, particularly in recycling industries, which will provide new compensating revenue streams.
A number A Auer of organic growth projects are also under consideration.
