Chairmans review The right strategy at the right time Against the backdrop of an anxious economy and well-reported pressures on the pharmaceutical industry, Shire continued to distinguish itself throughout 2007 as a specialty biopharmaceutical company guided by an effective strategy and empowered by remarkable people.
Shires results speak for themselves: record revenues of $2,436 million, total revenue growth of 36% and a commanding cash position of $802 million.
But there is always more to Shire than the numbers, and 2007 was no different.
For instance, the launch of ELAPRASE in Europe for the treatment of Hunter syndrome was hugely successful, as both marketing and pricing reimbursement approvals were gained efficiently and as a significant share of the patient population were given access to this potentially life-changing medicine.
We continue to believe that VYVANSE has the characteristics to become a market leader in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD.
The potential represented by products such as LIALDA MEZAVANT, for ulcerative colitis, was leveraged by extraordinary patient and physician outreach programs enabling a rapid market roll-out in the US.
Shires reputation grew among patients, physicians, families and investors, and in the communities in which we do business.
In an era when changing demographics, heightened public scrutiny, strict regulatory controls, profound pricing pressures and a rising emphasis on generic and therapeutic substitutions all work together to constrain innovation and erode the standing of pharmaceutical organizations, Shire emerged as a leader.
We credit a business model that focuses on developing products for and relationships with specialist physicians.
The trend is toward patient-focused specialty medicine and scientific advances have already created numerous individualized medicine opportunities: were capitalizing on both at Shire.
Weve moved adeptly into biologics, or large-molecule technologies, which offer lower financial risks: according to opinions of major industry players, could account for up to half the industrys growth over the next five to ten years.
Moreover, Shire has recognized the potential that lies in emerging markets and has taken steps to gain a greater international presence.
As always Shire is focused on optimizing operational structures - on testing new systems, on putting new teams into place and on streamlining processes that improve financial performance.
Were also stewards of the future at Shire and so, toward the end of 2007, we announced a succession plan and Board expansion that Im certain will position the Company well for the coming years.
Having served on Shires Board for eleven gratifying years, eight as Chairman, I have elected to step down following Shires annual meeting of shareholders.
Matthew Emmens our, Chief Executive Officer, will succeed me: and Angus Russell, our long-time Chief Financial Officer, will be appointed Chief Executive Officer.
At the same time, David Kappler will be appointed Deputy Chairman, a position hell maintain in addition to his existing role as senior independent director.
Mr Emmens has 34 years of industry experience and since joining Shire in 2003 has successfully led the Company through a period of significant strategic development, including a number of important M&A transactions.
Under his leadership, Shire has become a leading global specialty biopharmaceutical Company with a well-developed and diversified product portfolio, an excellent management team, and a strong corporate culture.
He has consistently demonstrated the leadership and change management skills that as Chairman are required in this dynamic environment.
