Chairmans statement 85,000 employees worldwide operating across 43 countries over 200 manufacturing locations earnings per share, which reect much higher The continued development of the groups minority interests, rose by 4% to 52.9p.
businesses and the associated investment Our sugar activities have been transformed and now extend across nine countries in will result in further progress in 2008. three continents.
Further investment has been authorised to upgrade and extend our facilities.
In Europe we have improved processing efficiency, positioning the business to meet the challenges of the revised EU sugar regime.
In southern Africa we are excited by the development potential of Illovo and new investment is being made to increase capacity The group has made good progress in the and extend the range of its operations.
In China past year and these results reect the benefit additions have been made to our cane sugar of recent major investment.
They include a capacity in the south and we are investing for contribution from our 51% investment in Illovo the first time in the beet sugar industry in the Sugar for the first time, and reect the rapid north east.
We are committed to developing roll-out of new Primark stores largely driven by our EU sales by harnessing the quota and the conversion of the former Littlewoods stores.
tariff free trading available from 2009 10 to These results have been achieved in the face the Least Developed Countries.
Illovo processes of a weak US dollar and extremely sharp cost cane sugar in four of these countries.
increases in some key commodities.
profit from our sugar business benefited Revenue was 13% ahead at 6.8bn.
Adjusted from Illovos contribution which exceeded operating profit increased by 11% and our expectations.
The acquisition was earnings adjusted profit before tax by 10%.
Adjusted enhancing in its first year.
While profit pressure 04 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 from sugar regime reform continued in Europe, encouraging that performance at Penneys Mike Alexander has also indicated that he will an excellent result was achieved in China.
in Ireland has been excellent.
not seek reappointment at the annual general meeting after nearly six years as a director.
At the beginning of this year it became clear We are pursuing further opportunities to expand Mikes quick, clear thinking and wide operational that the voluntary renunciation of sugar quota selling space in our established markets in the experience have been of great value to the was going to fall substantially short of the UK and Ireland, but this is likely to be at a less Board over a period of major development target set by the European Commission to rapid rate than in the last two years.
Extended discussions to build on our encouraging start in Spain.
within the industry and with the EU Commission Employees demonstrated a welcome willingness to get The Grocery businesses have also been 85,000 people now work in the group and the reform back on course and reduce the strengthened, particularly by the acquisition it is their efforts that have made these results transitory turbulence associated with the initial of Pataks.
The combination of this authentic possible.
The tremendous range of their talent reforms.
Short-term measures, including an Indian food brand with Blue Dragon will is a prime strength of the group.
I would like extended export programme and a temporary greatly strengthen our position in the growth to thank all our employees for their efforts in quota cut, were introduced to stabilise the orientated world foods market.
In addition we the past year, often in demanding conditions.
market in 2007 8. have increased our presence in better for you In many of the diverse communities where we foods with the acquisition of a 20% stake operate, our companies are a focus for local More importantly for the long term, in September in Jordans.
For example, in Africa healthcare the Agriculture Council agreed a series of issues are vital and Illovo has addressed this adaptation proposals which offered incentives Good progress was made in many of our Grocery with first class programmes tailored to the to growers and processors to opt for permanent businesses.
It was particularly satisfying to see country of operation.
The group is committed renunciation of quota from the 2008 9 marketing the major improvement in the Australian bakery to supporting these services where appropriate year.
We anticipate that a significant level of business driven by the good performance and to helping the development of all renunciation will now take place as a result of from our new bakery in Sydney.
these changes, in addition to the 2.2m tonnes Allied Bakeries in the UK performed poorly, already surrendered.
although there was significant improvement Dividends in the second half of the year following the A final dividend of 13p is proposed to be paid There have been major developments by relaunch of the Kingsmill brand.
on 11 January 2008 to shareholders on the British Sugar in the emerging biofuel market.
Together with the It has commissioned the UKs first bioethanol Net capital expenditure on existing businesses interim dividend of 6.5p paid on 2 July 2007, plant at Wissington, which uses sugar beet and on acquisitions less disposals totalled this will make a total of 19.5p, an increase as feedstock.
In June 2007 we announced 489m and represents further major investment of 4%.
a major new joint venture with BP and DuPont in the group.
This included expansionary to build a world-scale plant in the UK and the capital of some 200m to extend capacity Outlook design phase is on schedule.
We will continue at our plants and on new Primark stores.
The continued development of the groups to monitor developments in biofuels to identify It also included the acquisition of our interests businesses and the associated investment opportunities where use of the groups capabilities in Pataks and Jordans.
Despite this level of will result in further progress in 2008.
Although would offer satisfactory long-term returns.
investment the groups continuing strong cash reform of the EU sugar regime will have a further ow limited the increase in net borrowings to large negative effect on profit for the coming Primark grew rapidly during the year with a 13m, rising from 298m last year to 311m.
year, we expect the shape of the regime to be 37% increase in retail selling space since last The group remains very well placed to back resolved nally after a long period of uncertainty.
The last Littlewoods store has been the growth of our businesses by further High commodity costs will continue to put retted and opened in Brighton in October.
investment based on its strong balance sheet pressure on margins but we are seeing some significant new openings during the year were and cash ow.
success in recovery through prices.
As the Oxford Street in London in April, and Liverpool group benets from the realisation of recent in September, both of which have traded strongly.
Board changes major capital investment and rationalisation In my half year statement I reported that it is well positioned for longer term growth.
Expansion at this years rate was a major Jeff Harris had retired from the Board on challenge for Primarks management.
Peter Smith was appointed to the new staff were recruited and trained, a new Board on 28 February and has succeeded Martin Adamson central UK warehouse was brought into Jeff as chairman of the Audit committee.
Chairman operation while the impact of trading in the new stores on some existing stores was Lord MacGregor has advised that he will absorbed.
In this context, and with summer retire from the Board at the end of the trading affected by unusually wet weather, annual general meeting on 7 December.
like-for-like sales growth of 1% was He was appointed a director in 1994 as one encouraging.
Overall sales grew by 37% and of two independent non-executive directors profit by 20%.
The most recent UK market and later became senior independent director data shows Primark is now the second largest in 2003.
Based on his wide experience of clothing retailer in the UK by volume and government and business, John has combined the largest in the important value sector.
shrewd advice with the ability to challenge This demonstrates the strength of Primark constructively.
His contribution has been in the UK high street.
It is also very immense and will be greatly missed.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
