Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report to Shareholders that, during our first full year as a public company, Southern Cross Healthcare has continued to grow significantly.
William Colvin Chairman We have successfully completed and integrated a number of EBITDA before exceptional central costs and charges for future acquisitions and also grown organically by building several new minimum rental increases Adjusted EBITDA increased by 36.9% generation purpose-built homes and extending existing homes across to 66.8m compared to the prior year.
Profit before taxation for the the UK.
This continuing growth has consolidated our position as the year was 3.0m 2006 loss 17.4m, as a consequence of the clear UK market leader in the provision of care home services for charge for future minimum rental increases under IAS17 of 43.5m elderly people and strengthened our position as a major provider of 2006 30.7m.
specialist services for adults with physical and or learning disabilities.
Basic earnings per ordinary share was 0.96p, compared to the prior Southern Cross currently employs more than 40,000 staff and operates years loss per ordinary share of 9.35p.
Excluding the charge for almost twice as many care home beds as the second largest UK future minimum rental increases, loan arrangement fees written off, private operator.
Our UK market share now stands at 8% of all exceptional central costs and the tax effect thereon, adjusted long-term care beds within approximately 3% of all the registered earnings per share was 19.0p, up 61.0% on the prior year.
This gives us the dual advantage of economies of scale, plus the cost advantages inherent in operating purpose-built The Company paid an interim dividend of 2.5p per ordinary share for homes which are significantly larger than the UK national average.
the first six months of this year.
The Board is delighted to recommend a final dividend for the year of 5p per ordinary share, giving a total Increasing regulation from UK government bodies, customers of 7.5p per ordinary share for the year.
This represents a growth in expecting improved facilities and more intensive care requirements dividends year-on-year of 56.3%.
The Company expects the future are all driving consolidation in this highly fragmented service industry.
dividend policy to reflect the anticipated growth prospects and cash Southern Cross is leading the consolidation of the sector and we have flow generation of the business, while maintaining an appropriate plans in place, and significant financial firepower from our landlords level of dividend cover.
and banks to continue to acquire, build and grow our business in the UK.
Management and Staff Results and Dividends The Board thanks all staff working for the Company.
Our dedicated As a result of strong underlying growth in fees per bed and the staff work in a variety of nursing and care roles, as well as those Group increasing its operating capacity by 7,298 beds to 36,215 supporting our care services.
They perform difficult tasks in an as at 30 September 2007, revenue for the 52 weeks ended exemplary way and we are proud of them all.
The primary driver of this growth was acquisitions, which contributed 80.7m As previously announced our Chief Executive, Philip Scott, plans to step to total revenue.
Revenue of the underlying business increased by down at the end of 2007.
The Board is grateful to Philip for his 6.6% to 651.2m.
Average weekly fee per occupied bed of the leadership over the past seven years, during which he has built underlying portfolio increased year-on-year by 5.3%.
Southern Cross into the major force in the UK healthcare industry that it is today.
I am delighted and honoured to be replacing Philip as Group Chief Executive, from 1 January 2008.
I am committed to growing our Company and also improving the care services that we offer in our homes.
I believe Southern Cross is well positioned in an important industry and I will aim to maximise our operational and financial performance.
4 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Involving residents in their care.
We treat our residents as individuals whose opinions about their care and wellbeing deserve respect.
In our view, listening is a vitally important part of caring.
S So ou ut th he er rn n C Cr ro os ss s H He ea allt th hc ca ar re e G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 5 5 Chairmans Statement Increased bed capacity means increased demands on our infrastructure.
Our skilled staff continually check our service to ensure that we meet regulations as well as our own exacting standards.
Outlook 2008 promises to be another year of significant growth for the The private sector is increasing its role in the UKs long-term care Company as our results will benefit from the full year impact of the sector as local governments increasingly become commissioners of care acquisitions we completed in 2007.
Our maturing new build homes services rather than providers.
In future, demographic trends, combined will increase in occupancy and we are cautiously optimistic about with the current means-testing limits for care home funding support the fee outlook for 2008 across all areas of our business.
Our will result in more individuals procuring care services from providers development programme will be stepped up in 2008 and we will directly.
We believe that significant opportunities exist in the UK to continue to investigate further high-quality acquisitions as they arise.
satisfy the growing demand for care home services.
The Company Our landlords and banks are supportive and our covenant remains will continue to deliver high-quality, value-for-money services and sought after and strong which will enable the Company to acquire focus on local care needs in all the towns and cities in which it operating businesses in the future for little or no financial cost.
If we continue to execute this strategy as successfully as we have done in the past, we have a bright future.
William Colvin Chairman We believe that the Government understands the pressures of the ageing population.
A Green Paper on reform of adult social care has been announced as part of the Comprehensive Spending Review.
As clear market leader we would be keen to be involved in this review process.
The sector requires a funding overhaul and needs investment from Government and co-operation with the independent sector to ensure a sustainable, cost-effective solution is reached for our growing elderly population.
6 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
