I am pleased to report a good performance in 2006 which continues the Groups long record of consistent growth and strong pro tability.
We grew sales by over 10% and pre-tax pro ts were 15% ahead of 2005 at a record 65.7 million.
This is a consequence of your Boards long-standing determination to focus on the development of the Spirax Sarco steam specialty business and the Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pumping business through investment in Spirax Sarco retention and growth new products, expansion of sales coverage, development of new markets and management of costs.
The Spirax Sarco Group continues to expand globally responding to changing market pressures and challenges.
There is a greater awareness and demand for energy savings and environmentally friendly solutions, which represent good opportunities across our markets.
Our business strategy continues to focus on growth and retention.
Our traditional product markets such as steam traps, pressure controls, ancillaries, have always formed the foundation of our steam business and the building blocks of future solutions.
Focus The Group provides our customers with a distinctive value proposition by: Chairmans Continuing to strengthen our position as the knowledge company.
Offering improved and expanded solutions to our customers.
statement Providing the market with innovative and customer focused technology.
I am pleased to report another strong performance in 2007: we built on the investments and developments of Retaining and improving our existing market base.
the last few years which helped to sustain our long record of growth, good pro tability and cash generation.
We Continuing to extend our brand into related industrial uids.
increased sales by 9% and pre-tax pro ts by 11% to 72.8 million.
This was achieved through maintaining our commitment to product development, investing in new and expanding markets and improving e ciency in our business.
Foundations of success Sales grew to 417.3 million, from 384.2 million in 2006.
On average, sterling was over 2% stronger in 2007 than The Group has developed substantial application knowledge, systems expertise and a comprehensive range of in 2006: at constant exchange rates the sales increase was a strong 11%.
products and services that fide ne our value proposition.
These assets are becoming even more important as our customers needs increase for lower life cycle costs, energy savings and environmentally friendly solutions.
As in the first half of the year, the sales growth for the full year was spread across all regions.
There was a We manage the business such that we effectively match our knowledge, services, products, and technological continuation of the strong growth in Asia: sales in Continental Europe also innovation to the changing requirements of our customers.
maintained momentum in the second half and grew well.
In North America, there was a good increase in sales at constant currency but the weaker US dollar led to only a small increase in sterling.
In the UK and the Rest Knowledge and people of the World, there were also solid sales gains in nearly all companies.
Our people and knowledge have always been vital ingredients to our competitive edge.
It is our people, through the unique Operating pro t increased by 10% to 68.7 million from 62.3 million knowledge they possess, that deliver the right solutions to in 2006.
This includes an adverse e ect from currency movements of our customers.
Our emphasis is on their individual and team over 3 million and, at constant currency, the increase was 16%.
development and providing them with all the necessary tools.
The operating margin improved to 16.5% from 16.2% in the prior year despite the adverse exchange transaction e ect.
Customer solutions Spirax and Watson-Marlow Bredel solutions are tailored to Net finance income was 2.4 million, which compares the customer application.
Our products, services, engineered with 2.0 million in 2006.
There was a 1.1 million packages and new technologies deliver process improvements, increase in net finance income relating to the energy savings, plant safety and regulatory compliance.
The fide ned bene t pension funds: against this, scope of solutions available is progressively extended to meet there was an increase in net bank interest market demand.
payable as a result of the impact of the share buy-back in 2006, special pension Market penetration contributions and the acquisition of UltraPure.
The proportion of Associates We continue to focus on our core markets and develop growth opportunities through extending our sales post-tax pro ts attributable to the coverage, penetrating existing markets, expanding our range of products, and meeting our customers demand Group increased to 1.6 million for solutions which add value.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 5 6 6 Spir Spirax ax-SarSarc co Eng o Engineer ineering plc ing plc Peter has provided the Board with wise and balanced Pre-tax pro t for the Group increased by 11% to advice.
His counsel will be much missed and we wish 72.8 million 2006: 65.7 million and earnings per I am pleased to report another strong performance in 2007: we built on the investments him a long and healthy retirement.
share rose by 13% to 65.5p from 58.1p in 2006. and developments of the last few years which helped to sustain our long record of growth, good pro tability and cash generation.
We increased sales by 9% and pre-tax pro ts by We are pleased to have announced the appointment Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 21.6p 11% to 72.8 million.
This was achieved through maintaining our commitment to product of William Stebbings as Company Secretary with per share payable on 19th May 2008 to shareholders e ect from 1st April 2008.
William joined Spirax development, investing in new and expanding markets and improving e ciency in our on the register at the close of business on 18th April in February 2007.
He is a solicitor with extensive 2008.
This, together with the interim dividend of 8.3p business.
industrial experience at Linpac Group Ltd. HP Bulmer per share paid in November, makes a total dividend Holdings PLC, Bunzl PLC and The Distillers Company for the year of 29.9p per share.
total dividend of 26.5p per share last year, an increase of 13%, in line with our improved performance in The good results we have achieved in the past and 2007.
The cost of the interim and final dividends is again in 2007 re ect the fundamental strengths of the 22.8 million, which is covered 2.2 times by earnings.
Group - a wide geographical spread, diverse customer No scrip alternative to the cash dividend is being base, broad product range and our focus on our niche o ered.
Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel businesses.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a high quality business On 11th February 2008, the Group completed the and it is the skills and dedication of the people who acquisition of Flexicon A S in Denmark.
Flexicon will make up the Group that sets it apart.
Their e orts form part of the Watson-Marlow Bredel business all around the world have made our achievements and its range of peristaltic aseptic lling systems is possible: my thanks and those of the Board go to our complementary to the range o ered by Watsoncolleagues past and present for their hard work which Marlow Bredel.
The consideration was DKK141 million Chairmans has produced such strong results over a very long 14.1 million.
At the end of 2007, the Group had net cash of 15.8 statement PROSPECTS million.
The year started with net debt of 6.6 million and during the year there was a strong cash inow Today, whilst we are faced with increasing uncertainty helped by tight control of working capital and about the resilience of the global economy, the relatively low tax payments re ecting tax relief on the underlying strengths of the Spirax Sarco and Watsonspecial pension contributions in 2006 and 2007.
The Marlow Bredel businesses, which sell into a very broad Sales grew to 417.3 million, from 384.2 million in 2006.
On average, sterling was over 2% stronger in 2007 than acquisition of Flexicon and signi cantly higher capital range of industries worldwide, and the increasing in 2006: at constant exchange rates the sales increase was a strong 11%.
expenditure in 2008 will largely utilise short-term cash importance of energy savings should allow us to balances.
continue our long history of consistent performance.
There was a 2008 has started well including a more favourable c con ontinua tinuation of the str tion of the strong g ong gr ro owth in A wth in Asia: sales in C sia: sales in Con ontinen tinental E tal Eur urope also ope also We announced on 13th December 2007 that our Chief exchange environment.
We will continue to invest m ma ai in nt ta ai in ne ed d m mo om me en nt tu um m i in n t th he e s se ec co on nd d h ha al lf f a an nd d g gr re ew w w we el ll l..
I In n N No or rt th h A Am me er ri ic ca a, Executive, Marcus Steel, would be retiring from the in the development and expansion of our business ther there w e was a good incr as a good increase in sales a ease in sales at c t constan onstant cur t curr renc ency but the w y but the weaker eaker Board on 31st March 2008, having joined the Group in and, assuming that our global markets remain stable, US dollar led t US dollar led to only a small incr o only a small increase in st ease in ster erling ling.
In the UK and the R n the UK and the Rest est 1972 and the Board in 1992.
Marcus has successfully we expect to produce another good performance in of the of the W Wor orld ld, ther, there w e wer ere also solid sales gains in near e also solid sales gains in nearly all c ly all companies ompanies.. led the company in a rm and positive manner 2008. achieving improved financial performances, while Oper Opera ating pr ting pro o t incr t increased b eased by 10% t y 10% to 68.7 million fr o 68.7 million from 62.3 million om 62.3 million retaining its ethos and reputation for fair dealing.
Note: All pro t measures exclude the amortisation in 2006. in 2006.
T This includes an adv his includes an adverse e erse e ec ect fr t from cur om curr renc ency mo y mov vemen ements of ts of I, and the whole Board, thank him and wish him a very of acquisition-related intangible assets.
The total in o ov ver 3 million and er 3 million and, a, at c t constan onstant cur t curr renc ency y, the incr, the increase w ease was 16%.
2007 is 0.6 million 2006: 0.4 million of which T The oper he opera ating mar ting marg gin impr in impro ov ved t ed to 16.5% fr o 16.5% from 16.2% in om 16.2% in 0.2 million relates to Associates 2006: nil.
the pr the prior y ior year despit ear despite the adv e the adverse e erse ex xchange tr change transac ansaction tion We were delighted to announce that Mark Vernon e ect.
will succeed Marcus as Chief Executive from 1st April 2008.
Mark joined the Group as President of Spirax Net Net nanc finance inc e income w ome was 2.4 million, which c as 2.4 million, which compar ompares es Sarco, Inc. in the USA in 2003 and he then came with 2.0 million in 2006. with 2.0 million in 2006.
T Ther here w e was a 1.1 million as a 1.1 million onto the Board of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc in incr increase in net ease in net nanc finance inc e income r ome rela elating t ting to the o the June 2006 with responsibility for the Americas and fide ned bene t pension funds: against this, Group Marketing.
Mark brought to Spirax a wealth of there was an increase in net bank interest experience in the global process control industry and payable as a result of the impact of the he is well quali ed to take the Group forward.
M Townsend, Chairman share buy-back in 2006, special pension contributions and the acquisition of Also on 13th December 2007 we announced that UltraPure.
The proportion of Associates Peter Smith will be retiring as Company Secretary post-tax pro ts attributable to the and Director with e ect from 31st March 2008 after Group increased to 1.6 million 33 years with the Group.
He joined the Board of 2006: 1.4 million.
Since that date, 6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7
