Executive chairmans statement I am pleased to report that Spirents adjusted earnings per share increased by 4 per cent in 2007 to 3.57 pence, before exceptional items, from.
This was after charging 0.38 pence for share-based payment and intangible amortisation, down from 0.62 pence in 2006.
The restructuring programme announced by the Board in April yielded greater benefits than originally expected, allowing Spirent to substantially exceed its original earnings expectations for the year.
Due to the timing of the restructuring actions, almost all of the improvements were realised after June, so the majority of the earnings increase for the year occurred in the second half of the year when adjusted earnings per share increased to 2.72 pence after share-based payment and intangible amortisation of 0.22 pence, an increase of 228 per cent over the second half of last year.
The largest component of Spirents revenue and profit is from our Performance Analysis business, which supplies telecommunications test and measurement equipment Edward Bramson and software, principally to manufacturers of telecommunications network products.
Executive Chairman Performance Analysis sales returned to growth in the second half of the year on a constant currency basis.
This growth was driven primarily by next-generation broadband and wireless products.
Wireless products grew by 2 per cent in 2007.
The overall growth of Performance Analysis sales was substantially less than this as we still have a number of mature or declining legacy items in our portfolio.
Our second half sales Restructuring has increases are indicative of the fact that the growth of our new products is now overtaking the decline of older ones, a trend that we expect to continue in 2008. reduced Spirents costs and lowered Future prospects for the Performance Analysis business are encouraging as the the break-even increasing data intensity of services such as IPTV and evolving wireless technologies challenge our customers to respond by continuously investing in developing new level of sales, but products, which is a key driver of the test and measurement markets.
Market it has also resulted conditions at the end of last year were reasonably good for most of the major test in improvement and measurement suppliers and 2008 has started out in line with our expectations.
in important Spirents Service Assurance and Systems businesses, representing 5 per cent and areas of operating 4 per cent, respectively, of our sales, performed slightly better than expectations performance that against a market backdrop that was relatively flat.
At present, the markets for these businesses in 2008 appear to be similar to those experienced in 2007. will be of continuing benefit in the future.
Restructuring has reduced Spirents costs and lowered the break-even level of sales, but it has also resulted in improvement in important areas of operating performance that will be of continuing benefit in the future.
For example, our success in completing new product developments on time.
Similarly, inventory turnover in Performance Analysis has improved to 3.7 times in 2007 versus 2.6 times in the prior year, releasing capital employed and, more importantly, reducing our exposure to charges for excess or obsolete inventory which have been costly in the past.
The programmes implemented by the Board in 2007 also contributed to a major increase in cash generation.
Free cash flow increased to 50.2 million in 2007 compared with a negative cash flow in the prior year.
We are optimistic that a full year of restructuring benefits in 2008 and the reduced capital requirements resulting from our further outsourcing of manufacturing should generate significant free cash in 2008 as well.
The financial flexibility afforded by our improved cash generation enabled us to return 75.0 million from January 2007 to date to our investors through share repurchases.
The anticipated free cash flow in 2008 will be available for further distributions to shareholders and to fund expansion of the Companys businesses.
2 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 3 Executive chairmans statement continued The outlook for increasing volumes of data traffic and evolving wireless technologies is encouraging.
As outlined in the Boards November Strategic Review, we are investing significant amounts in research and development to address these opportunities and to transform the exceptional breadth of capabilities that Spirent possesses into a sustainable competitive advantage.
To facilitate this, we have created a new position, Chief Executive of the Communications businesses, to bring the Communications businesses into strategic alignment.
William Burns, who joined the Group in 2004 and has substantial industry experience, assumed this role from January 2008.
We anticipate that the effect of a full year of restructuring benefits in 2008 compared to only six months in 2007 will support a significant growth in earnings and free cash flow.
Although we are cognisant of the uncertainty in the service provider marketplace, our current expectation is for Performance Analysis sales to increase in constant currency terms.
Encouragingly, reinvigorated sales and marketing teams and a strong new product portfolio enabled us to end the year with a Performance Analysis order book that has increased substantially over that at the end of 2006.
Allowing the order book to build in this way is a goal that we set for ourselves as part of the change in setting operational targets instituted by the Board earlier in the year.
As a result, we have more visibility into future sales levels than at the same time last year and are able to manage our operations more effectively.
Inevitably, given its significant size and the amount of change in the business, we have primarily dwelt on Performance Analysis in this years results.
However, our other business units, Service Assurance and Systems have each performed well relative to expectations and have some interesting opportunities to focus on in the coming year.
Spirent now has in place a highly competent, motivated and stable management team, which merits our sincere thanks and congratulations.
I look forward to updating you on our progress at the Annual General Meeting.
Edward Bramson Executive Chairman 4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 5
