Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement 2 Making dividends bigger Sir Robert Smith Chairman Scottish and Southern Energys strategy I am very pleased to report that we responded operations and investment in alternative is to deliver sustained real growth in the effectively to the power cuts experienced sources of energy.
In this context, I am dividend payable to shareholders through by our electricity network customers particularly pleased that we have set the efficient operation of, and investment and achieved another reduction in the ourselves the target of reducing the carbon in, a balanced range of regulated and nonnumber of complaints sent by customers intensity of electricity generated at power regulated energy-related businesses.
The of Scotia Gas Networks to energywatch for stations in which we have an ownership or successful implementation of this strategy resolution.
We have also set the standard contractual interest by 20% by 2016.
This is in 2006 07 delivered another year of excellent in customer service in energy supply, with just one example of our determination to financial performance, with profit before the implementation of our sector-leading make energy better.
tax exceeding 1 billion for the first time, Customer Charter.
This, combined with Values and strong operational performance, our policy of responsible pricing, has Sustainability aiming to operate ethically, with our policy of responsible pricing helped us to reach 7.75 million customers, taking the long-term view to achieve growth helping us to gain more than one million an increase of over 70% in five years.
while safeguarding the environment is one additional customers.
Dividend of six core values for SSE which we defined Assets SSEs first responsibility to shareholders is to during the year.
The others are safety, There has been very good progress in our deliver sustained real growth in the dividend.
service, efficiency, excellence and teamwork.
major investment programme, with the result With its operational and investment focus These values are demonstrated day-in, that our asset base in energy networks, leading to value enhancement and creation, day-out by people throughout SSE and it is electricity generation, energy supply and SSE is in an excellent position to deliver this which helps to set the company apart gas storage, which has grown substantially in very good results in the years ahead, as a from so many others, and to which I pay a recent years, will again increase significantly customer-serving, dividend-paying company.
Adhering to them helped us in the coming years.
Later this year, for Our enhanced dividend policy reflects this.
to achieve another reduction in the number example, the first of the gas storage caverns The Board is recommending a final dividend of lost time and reportable injuries to a new at our development at Aldbrough in East of 39.9p, making a full-year dividend of 55p record low for the company.
Nevertheless, Yorkshire are set to be commissioned, and our an increase of 18.3%.
From this new, higher we remain focused on our ultimate goal of first new large-scale hydro electric scheme base, our new target is to deliver at least injury-free working.
for 50 years is taking shape at Glendoe near 4% real growth in the dividend in respect Long-term Loch Ness.
This growth in assets will confirm of 2007 08, 2008 09 and 2009 10 and to Next year will see the completion of SSEs our position as the broadest-based UK energy deliver sustained real growth in the dividend first decade as one of the UKs leading company, and we have the opportunities and thereafter.
energy companies, and the company is financial strength to invest further.
Environment full of ideas, plans and opportunities for Customers SSEs core activities present significant its second decade.
That decade will be SSE has two kinds of customers: those environmental challenges and our policy is challenging, and there is absolutely no room to whom we supply electricity and gas to minimise where possible the emissions of whatsoever for complacency, but I am fully and other energy and utility services in carbon, sulphur and nitrogen from all of our confident that the company is exceptionally competitive markets: and those to whom activities through a combination of continuous well-placed to add greatly to its track record we distribute energy via regulated networks.
improvement in the management of our of sustained real growth in the dividend.
