04 05 The Board is recommending Chairmans message Chief Executives review an increased final dividend of 4.7 pence full year growth of 1.8 per cent.
This has been driven largely by strong performance of our European business offset by weaker performance in Japan and Thailand where the market is based on low prices and is subject to high levels of local competition.
In Europe, we have shown that we can provide well-designed, stylish shoes that take care of feet, whilst also expanding distribution outside the traditional pharmacy sector.
Sales of our locally owned brands were broadly the same as last year.
Other sales grew by 4.9 per cent on an underlying basis as a result of increased sales of unbranded condoms.
Operating profit for the year was 56.1 million meeting the target of double digit operating profit growth and as a result, Gerald Corbett basic earnings per share increased by almost 34 per cent Chairman to 17.1 pence.
Dividends It has been a very encouraging year.
We again increased The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of the investment behind our brands, Durex and Scholl.
4.7 pence, 6.8 per cent ahead of last year.
The total dividend Our new product development programme kicked for the year of 6.8 pence is covered 2.5 times.
We saw strong earnings and revenue dividend will be paid on 6 September 2007 to shareholders growth and we successfully integrated our Chinese on the register on 10 August 2007. acquisition.
Our cashflow performance was also particularly satisfying.
Outlook The new year has begun satisfactorily.
Given our progress Underlying sales, excluding China, grew 7.8 per cent and total over the last three years and the strength of our brands we sales, including Chinas last quarter sales of 2.5 million, grew remain confident of meeting the financial target that the by 8.4 per cent.
This was driven by Durex, through continued Group set last year of delivering annual double digit growth in expansion of the Play range and further excellent growth in operating profit in each of the financial years to March 2009. condom sales: and Scholl footcare, where the successful new We believe this can be achieved through a combination of product introductions of Cracked Heel Repair Cream and continued investment in our brands driving further sales Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover produced a strong result.
growth and tight control of overheads.
Currency adjusted sales from Durex and Scholl footcare grew by 17.5 per cent and 6.2 per cent respectively.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our SSL colleagues throughout the world.
Our success would not be possible As expected, sales of Scholl footwear have shown modest without their efforts.
