Chairmans statement Stagecoach has delivered a year of strong growth in its bus and rail saddened at the incident, and our condolences go to the family of the operations in the UK and North America, providing further excellent returns passenger who lost her life and those who were injured.
The Rail Accident to our shareholders.
Investigation Board has identified the cause of the accident as a faulty set of points.
Responsibility for maintaining the points rests with Network Rail.
We continue to achieve impressive passenger growth by providing a high Virgin Rail Group has been working with Network Rail to ensure lessons are quality and green alternative to the car.
Across the business, we have learnt from this serious incident.
Network Rail responded quickly to the achieved strong like-for-like revenue growth and, while cost pressures incident and with a clear chain of command.
Precautionary checks on remain a challenge, we have been able to improve the operating profit similar sets of points suggested the fault at Lambrigg was an isolated one.
is clear that the quality of the train itself prevented further loss of life.
Capitalising on its industry leadership and entrepreneurial flair, the UK Bus Customers can remain assured that the safety and security of our passengers division is continuing to perform strongly.
The Groups North American and our people is paramount for the Group and all its businesses, and this is operations are benefiting from good revenue growth and a rigorous underpinned by a proactive safety culture.
In Rail, both South West Trains and the During the year, Russell Walls stepped down from the Board of Directors and Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group VRG, are experiencing strong Sir George Mathewson joined the Board as a non-executive director.
The passenger volume and revenue growth and we are excited by the prospects Group benefited significantly over six years from Russells skills and for the new East Midlands rail franchise that we will begin operating in experience and I thank him for his strong contribution.
In addition, I am November 2007. pleased that Garry Watts will join the Group as a non-executive director with Group revenue from continuing operations for the year ended 30 April 2007 effect from 1 July 2007.
Garry brings a wide range of experience and was up 12.0% at 1,504.6m 2006: 1,343.9m.
Operating profit from I am sure he will make a strong contribution to the Board.
continuing operations before intangible asset expenses and exceptional I would again like to thank our employees across our international items was 161.3m 2006: 133.0m.
Earnings per share before intangible operations who have ensured that our strategy has been delivered on the asset expenses and exceptional items were 11.7p 2006: 10.6p.
Putting passengers first is at the heart of what we do every day and there were net exceptional gains before tax of 169.6m, principally arising we can look forward with confidence to growing our public transport from the profit of 132.2m on the sale of the Groups London bus operations further in the year ahead.
operations, which was completed in August 2006.
We have made a strong start to the new financial year and current trading of We are proposing a final dividend of 2.9p per share 2006: 2.6p, giving a the Group remains in line with our expectations.
total dividend for the year of 4.1p 2006: 3.7p.
This is an increase of 10.8% and we will look to continue to grow the dividend progressively.
The proposed final dividend is payable to shareholders on the register at 31 August 2007 and will be paid on 3 October 2007.
In March 2007, the Board announced plans to return approximately 700m to shareholders in view of the proceeds from the sale of the New Zealand and London bus businesses and continuing strong cash generation across the Group.
The proposals, approved by shareholders on 27 April 2007, give the Group a more efficient capital structure.
The return of value, which Robert Speirs equated to 63.0p per ordinary share, was completed in June 2007.
Chairman In February 2007, a Virgin Rail Group Pendolino train travelling from London 27 June 2007 Euston to Glasgow was derailed near Lambrigg in Cumbria.
We were deeply Exceptional items are defined in note 4 of the consolidated financial statements on page 57 of this Annual Report page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc
