Business Review Chairmans Statement A rapid and successful integration A year of transformation This approach has been illustrated by the The 2007 merger of Taylor Woodrow plc commencement of a 750 million share and George Wimpey Plc has already realised buyback programme during the year.
It has changed the face year end we had completed the purchase of, and the opportunities for the business.
of 94.8 million shares, at a total cost of The benets of the merger are as valid today 250 million.
Given the uncertainty in the as they were in July.
This is especially true UK housing market, the Board has decided in the difficult market conditions that we to suspend the buyback programme currently face.
In order to maintain exibility we will be seeking the 2007 performance usual authority at the forthcoming Annual Norman Askew Our UK Housing business has delivered a General Meeting AGM on 17 April 2008 Chairman strong performance against a backdrop of to purchase up to 10% of our shares.
more subdued market conditions, particularly We are pleased to confirm the continuation of in the second half of 2007.
We took the our progressive dividend policy, by which we decision to prioritise margin improvement intend to grow dividends in line with earnings over volume and have exceeded our target over the medium term whilst maintaining to achieve pro forma operating margins prudent levels of profit and cash cover.
In line with this policy, the Board Markets in North America have remained recommends an increase in the final dividend extremely challenging throughout 2007. to 10.25 pence per share from 9.75 pence in Whilst our Canadian operations have taken 2006.
This, together with the interim dividend advantage of a robust environment to deliver of 5.5 pence paid on 1 November 2007, another good set of results, our business makes a total dividend for the year of in the US has returned a loss for the year 15.75 pence, an increase of 6.8%.
after recording significant exceptional items.
Total pre-tax exceptional items for the year are Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, 379.7 million of which 321.3 million relate the dividend will be paid on 1 July 2008, to to the North America Housing business.
shareholders on the register at close of business on 23 May 2008.
In Spain and Gibraltar, oversupply in the market in mainland Spain has had a negative effect on This dividend will be paid as a conventional our performance, despite relatively stable cash dividend but shareholders are once market conditions in Mallorca and Gibraltar.
again being offered the opportunity to reinvest some or all of their dividend under The performance of our Construction business the Dividend Re-Investment Plan, details of has been good in the UK but has been which are contained in the Shareholder hampered by losses on a small number of Information section.
Creating value for our shareholders Corporate governance Following the merger, we have taken the Taylor Wimpey plc continues the focus on long term value creation that was adopted opportunity to review our approach to by both Taylor Woodrow plc and George corporate governance to ensure that we Wimpey Plc.
incorporate the best practices from both of The basis of preparation of pro forma financial information is set out on page 104.
A full report on our The Board would also like to take this corporate governance activities can be found opportunity to thank John Robinson, Andrew Operational summary Carr-Locke, Steve Parker, Robert Sharpe and on pages 43 to 45.
Christine Cross who resigned from the George Successful and rapid integration to Wimpey Plc board at the time of the merger.
create the new Taylor Wimpey Group Corporate responsibility management Following the merger we set up a new Strong growth in pro forma UK Our people Board-level Corporate Responsibility operating margins to 15.2%, It is an unfortunate fact that many of the Committee.
The Committee is made up of ahead of target savings achieved through mergers come Independent Non Executive and Executive Actions in place to achieve full as a result of redundancies.
We would like Directors and is chaired by Non Executive synergy targets with further to record our thanks for the expertise and Director Katherine Innes Ker.
progress expected dedication of all of our employees and, in The Committee is responsible for particular, for the professionalism of those Net operating assets for North recommending the Companys corporate employees who no longer have a continuing America Housing reduced to 15% responsibility strategy, policies, reporting and role within the combined business.
of total Group performance monitoring to the Board.
The Committees remit includes ensuring that Approach to reporting corporate responsibility strategy and activity The results within this Annual Report and is adequately resourced, has appropriate Accounts are presented under the acquisition standing within the Company and is aligned accounting convention, including alignment of to the needs of the business.
accounting policies, fair value adjustments on For more information visit www.
com the George Wimpey net assets acquired and Our key areas of focus in terms of corporate the recognition of other intangibles including responsibility are the homes and communities goodwill.
The results of the former George that we build for our customers and the way Wimpey Plc business are incorporated from that we operate as a business in terms of 3 July 2007, when the merger completed.
human resources, health and safety, environment and supply chain management.
Shareholder information Full details of the facilities available to Board and operational changes shareholders can be found on page 112 On behalf of the Board, I would like to record of this Annual Report and Accounts and my thanks for the contributions made by the at www.
In the case of Taylor Woodrow plc, Ian Smith and Vernon Sankey resigned from the Board at the time of the merger.
John Landrum left the Board with effect from 31 July 2007 following which Sheryl Palmer has operational responsibility for the North American Norman Askew Chairman business.
Sheryl has 18 years of experience in the homebuilding and land development industry, much of it with Pulte Homes and Del Webb, prior to joining Morrison Homes in early 2006.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
