Chairmans statement 2007 was a year of positive achievement for TNS, both in terms of financial performance and progress against our strategic objectives.
In 2007, the group grew underlying important to have a clear strategy revenue in all its regions and sectors, and management focused on effective while at the same time achieving execution.
The need for first-class operating margin improvement.
This good market information combining data with Total dividend per share p operational performance has contributed judgement insight is particularly 03 3.0 towards earnings per share growth of important during such periods and the over 20 per cent and has been achieved groups strategy is shaped to deliver this.
04 3.5 in response to the challenging goals set 05 4.0 During 2007, the group completed its by the Chief Executive, David Lowden.
06 4.6 share buy back programme, through 07 5.5 At the same time, the group has fully which it has returned 100 million to recognised the demands of a changing shareholders.
The board reviews the marketplace.
In particular, it has groups use of cash on an ongoing basis, 19.6% reinforced its response to clients need so that we can continue to take full to understand the impact on consumer advantage of opportunities by investing behaviour of an increasingly digital world.
in our strategic initiatives, while also It has prioritised investment into services ensuring an efficient capital structure.
to meet these demands, whilst achieving Despite the current macro-economic efficiencies in its existing processes.
uncertainty, the outlook for the market This progress is attributable to the talent, information industry remains positive.
passion and sheer hard work of our Market growth continues to be driven by people.
I thank them for all their effort the trends of globalisation, technological and success.
change and demand for insight.
Whilst mindful of the need to plan carefully, Over the past 12 months, I have again David Lowden has again set ambitious visited many parts of the group and goals and I look forward to 2008 being met with many of its senior executives.
another year of progress for TNS.
I sense a growing excitement around the organisation about the progress that has confidence in this future performance is been made to date but, especially, about reected in the boards recommendation the future.
There is tangible belief in our of a total dividend of 5.5p per share for ability to lead industry thinking and deliver 2007, an increase of almost 20 per cent outstanding service to our clients, both over the previous year.
There is also a strong commitment to continuous improvement in all areas and to effective management of change.
In the turbulent economic times through Donald Brydon which we are passing, it is particularly Chairman TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
