02 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 03 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Connectivity In addition to TelecityGroups own Businesses have a need for high levels resilient managed connectivity services, of connectivity, whilst at the same time major national and international networks feeling confident that their server are hosted in the Companys facilities, infrastructure is housed in a secure and offering an extensive choice of networks resilient environment with highlyskilled to which organisations can connect.
engineers on site day and night to provide expert assistance.
TelecityGroup data centres offer direct access to high numbers of global and national network providers, ISPs and internet exchange points which enables critical peering, transit and traffic exchange requirements.
ConneCtivity 04 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 05 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 chairmans statement Revenue up Net IPO proceeds Adjusted EBITDA up 42.1% 66.9m 112.1% John Hughes Chairman I am very pleased to be reporting to has continued to be extremely attentive Michael Tobin, continues to focus on the refinancing programmes and played It is clear that the demand for the high quality data you as Chairman of Telecity Group Plc to customer requirements they have prudent development of the business a significant role in the IPO.
TelecityGroup or the Group at the also been active in addressing this market and on the further expansion that these centres that TelecityGroup offers continues to increase, time of issuing its first set of results since opportunity.
When Telecity plc merged funds will enable.
In September, as well as my appointment as evidenced during 2007 by the Group adding a number the Group completed its successful entry with Redbus Interhouse plc Redbus in to the Board of TelecityGroup, we to the London Stock Exchange, and in 2006 and subsequently acquired Globix The success of the business is largely welcomed John OReilly and Simon Batey of additional blue chip customers to its roster, as well my first period as the Groups Chairman.
Holdings UK Limited Globix, it was dependent on the way the Group as independent, nonexecutive Directors with a mission to develop further the operates its data centres and the to the Group.
Their experience has been, as renewing and expanding relationships with existing 2007 has been a very successful year for enlarged Groups marketleading position consistent, reliable service we provide and will be, valuable as the Group TelecityGroup, in which it has delivered as the primary content and connectivity for our customers.
Our highly skilled continues to implement its strategy customers.
The Group enjoys a diverse customer base strong results.
During 2007 the Groups hub in Europes key markets, and it is employees play an important role and addresses its many opportunities.
revenues increased by 42.1%, with an satisfying to record the impact of this building the business and each of them Subsequent to the year end Simon Batey across a variety of sectors and industries and has good Adjusted EBITDA growth of 112.1%.
successful integration which underpins has been key to the successful and has been appointed as the Senior visibility of the requirements both from existing and These results reflect both strong the results we are presenting.
The final exciting year the Group has enjoyed.
management focus and the commitment integration of the Globix business at the On behalf of the Board I would like potential new customers.
of all the employees of TelecityGroup.
beginning of 2007 had a positive impact to thank them for their hard work and 2007 was an excellent year for on our ability to sell additional value professionalism during a period of TelecityGroup as we delivered growth, It is clear that the demand for the high added services, such as engineering, considerable development.
completed a successful IPO and initiated quality data centres that TelecityGroup connectivity, security and backup services significant expansion plans in order offers continues to increase, as evidenced Value Added Services, contributing Current trading during the first months to cater for the expected increase in during 2007 by the Group adding a number approximately 28.1% to 2007 revenues.
of 2008 has been strong with significant customer demand.
Further details of the of additional blue chip customers to its progress being made on growing the Groups results and outlook are included roster, as well as renewing and expanding In addition to this expansion the customer base.
As expected, net order in the Business Review from our Chief relationships with existing customers.
Group has also pursued opportunities wins are significantly higher than in the Executive Officer, Michael Tobin, and The Group enjoys a diverse customer for organic growth, and during 2007 same period last year.
Furthermore, the Group Finance Director, Brian McArthur base across a variety of sectors and continued to increase its capacity in Group remains on track to open its two Muscroft, which commences on page 8. industries and has good visibility of the existing facilities as well as commencing new data centres as planned which, requirements both from existing and new stateoftheart data centre builds in on completion, will deliver 9,000 sq.
m Finally, I would like to welcome and thank potential new customers.
These additions of additional capacity in London and all of the new shareholders to the Group.
will allow TelecityGroup to remain the Amsterdam.
Strong customer interest is I look forward to reporting on the Groups Todays market for the premium product foremost provider of high quality network being shown in the first capacity release, further progress during the year.
TelecityGroup provides is characterised independent data centre services available from Q2 2008.
Initial customer by limited supply of data centre capacity, in Europe.
orders have been signed for both so while the management team data centres.
On 24 October 2007 TelecityGroup was admitted to the London Stock Exchange, We welcomed Brian McArthur Muscroft as John Hughes raising total net funds of 66.9m.
Group Finance Director in January 2007.
Chairman The Chairmans Statement forms part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the Directors Report The management team, led by Brian has been instrumental in the set out on pages 24 to 26.
06 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 07 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Colocation The Groups HighDensity Hosting From colocation to fully managed hosting, facilities are designed to be capable TelecityGroup provides a suite of data of meeting the power, cooling centre services that offer organisations and management requirements of an enhanced and costeffective alternative powerhungry bladeserver computing.
The Groups The Group also bundles bestofbreed colocation services offer secure, hardware, security, storage, connectivity resilient, and fully redundant facilities and monitoring services with ongoing for companies looking to house their management to deliver a comprehensive missioncritical equipment.
TelecityGroup offered us the most appropriate data centre environment and infrastructure to meet our needs.
Their network independent services provide consistency of performance, which is imperative for a radio station that broadcasts worldwide in a variety of digital formats.
David Jones Head of Technology Services, Virgin Radio ColoCation 06 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 07 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Utilised Free Data centre capacity and utilisation in key European markets 1999 to 2007 000 sq.
m Expansion customers with the highly secure space, The growth in internet traffic and the 200 200 200 200 facilities, services and connected evolving needs of business continue environment they require.
to drive demand for highquality data centres from new and existing customers.
150 150 150 150 In 2008 two new data centres will be opened in London and Amsterdam, A key part of the Groups strategy and additional customer capacity will be is to ensure that the right inventory is 100 100 100 100 brought online throughout the existing available to meet this ongoing demand.
Investment in existing facilities and new data centres demonstrates the 50 50 50 50 TelecityGroup commitment to providing 0 0 0 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Amsterdam Frankfurt London Paris Source: BroadGroup Expansion Illustration of Amsterdam 4
