1 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dr Thomas Middelhoff Notwithstanding our exibility, one aspect of our business will remain The new Thomas Cook Group has an admirable constant.
We are committed to operating an asset-light business pedigree.
It springs from the merger of one of model.
To that end, we announced plans to merge our German airline, the worlds oldest and most widely respected Condor with Air Berlin.
Our intention is to create a leading airline that will serve Thomas Cook Group as a long-term strategic partner.
tourism groups, Thomas Cook AG, and the These plans are fully consistent with the strategies that have created highly dynamic MyTravel, which was noted Thomas Cook Group.
for operations in the UK, Northern Europe Thomas Cook has always succeeded by knowing our customers even and North America.
better than they know themselves.
In so doing, we have been able to empathise with their desires and aspirations and help them to achieve Individually, each company had signi cant attributes.
Together, their travel ambitions sometimes even before they knew they they form a Group of truly international stature.
is competing from a position of strength in the mainstream tour business, independent travel and travel-related financial services.
Today, we are combining this knowledge with the skill of being able We are also ideally positioned to bene t from growing demand to adapt to every shift in the increasingly dynamic market for leisure generated by emerging markets.
That is one of the greatest strengths of the new Thomas Cook.
Looking ahead, we will maximise our advantages.
These include I would like to take this opportunity to thank Peter McHugh and John a strong financial position: virtually unrivalled scale balanced Bloodworth, who both retired from the Board on 31 December 2007. by a streamlined decision-making structure: a respected brand Peter became Chief Executive of MyTravel in 2002, when the company portfolio and industry-leading margins.
was in severe financial dif culties, and led the highly successful turnaround which ultimately made the merger a possibility.
He was We believe one of our main business differentiators is the high quality appointed Joint Chief Executive of Thomas Cook Group with Manny of our people past and present, leading the competition in terms Fontenla-Novoa and left as planned after six months.
John also played of the quality of our workforce.
The skills and diversity of our people a valuable role in the MyTravel turnaround as head of its US and later enable us to tailor our business model to best meet market needs its UK business.
We wish them both well for the future.
no matter where we operate.
06 | THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 We believe one of our main business differentiators is the high quality of our people past and present, leading the competition in terms of the quality of our workforce.
The skills and diversity of our people enables us to tailor our business model to best meet market needs no matter where we operate.
The Board was initially formed by members of the boards of Arcandor Thanks to their leadership and the hard work of everyone at AG, MyTravel Group plc and Thomas Cook AG.
During the year we Thomas Cook, the Group is already acknowledged as a major were pleased to welcome to the Board two new independent directors force in the global leisure travel industry.
We have the will, talent of considerable experience Hemj Klein, a former Executive Board and knowledge to remain a leader in the business in which our member of Lufthansa AG, and Bo Lerenius, Chairman of the Swedish name has long been a byword for quality and trust.
Chamber of Commerce and former Group Chief Executive of ABP Holdings plc.
Together with my fellow Board members, I would like to express con dence in the new Groups management team, led by Manny Dr Thomas Middelhoff Fontenla-Novoa.
Drawn from some of the most talented people in Chairman our industry, the people running Thomas Cook have already done an excellent job of merging the two companies and produced a first class performance so far.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 | 07
