qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 The Group had an excellent year in 2007, producing strong executive director, resigned to take up a position working financial results, stepping up its rate of branch expansion, directly for the Prime Minister.
Although Stephens time with growing market share and entering a further new building us was relatively brief, he made a significant contribution to materials market.
We also continued to make progress in Board, with precise and telling interventions in our building the Groups capabilities, with a strengthening of discussions always with great tact and support.
Mike many of our shared service functions.
Dearden, having been asked to extend his appointment with us by a further 2 years following 6 years as a non-executive RESULTS director, will leave the Board in November this year.
Activity The Group delivered record financial results in 2007, with is already under way to identify two non-executive directors increases in revenue, operating profits and operating to replace Stephen and Mike.
margins, profit before tax and earnings per share.
Group revenue was up by nearly 12% with adjusted profit before EMPLOYEES tax up by just under 19% and adjusted earnings per share Given the strong performance the Group has delivered in up by over 17%.
2007, I am sure all shareholders will join me in thanking all Despite, as ever, competitive conditions in our markets, the our people for their tremendous hard work.
Aside from the adjusted group operating margin grew by 28 basis points to significant achievements in project related work, where just over 10% - an indication that our strategy of building a businesses and shared service functions have all made strong base of like-for-like growth through a superior offer to great strides forward, the day-to-day efficiency of our customers is delivering for shareholders.
The operating organisation is maintained by the constant dedication and margin would have been even higher were it not for the attention to detail of all our people very often performing dilutive effect of an accelerated rate of network expansion routine but essential tasks to a very high level of quality, and roll out of Benchmarx, our new trade kitchen and joinery accuracy and efficiency.
To all of them, on behalf of specialist distributor.
We are pleased to report that we shareholders, I offer my thanks.
continue to maintain our position of having the highest Tim Stevenson operating margin in both merchant and retail sectors.
OUTLOOK Chairman We stepped up the rate of branch network expansion The well documented problems emanating from financial adding new branches to each brand and adding a further markets are set to impact on the wider economy in 2008. new business stream to our portfolio in the form of Tile The consequent adverse effects on consumer confidence Giant.
As at the end of the year our network comprised and the construction sector are expected to impact on 1,125 branches, and in the first two months of the year growth rates in our markets progressively over the THE GROUP has grown further to 1,166 branches, with 15 branches forthcoming year.
added in our trade division and 26 stores added in the Whilst forecasting market volumes with any accuracy is DELIVERED RECORD retail division.
currently more challenging, cost inflation in goods-forFINANCIAL resale remains high and is expected to increase the value DIVIDEND of our market, even if it may take some time to establish RESULTS IN 2007 The Group continues to be highly cash generative.
As a new prices at a time when customers activity levels may result of this and our confidence in the future prospects of be lower than before.
the Group, the Board is recommending a final dividend of However, despite this less promising outlook, our 30.4 pence per share.
Taken together with the interim business is in better shape to withstand a more challenging dividend of 14.5 pence, this represents a total dividend of environment.
We expect to enjoy better levels of business 44.9 pence, an increase of 20.1% on the previous year.
activity than our competitors, a stronger Wickes business, growth available from two new markets, and an increased BOARD OF DIRECTORS contribution to profits from recent accelerated expansion of The composition of the Board was unchanged throughout our well established brands.
However, in early January Stephen Carter, a nonThe strengthening of our central functions such as IT 10 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 11 and supply chain is yielding further sourcing gains and productivity improvements.
The active management of our property assets is expected to contribute increased profits and cash flows in 2008 and beyond.
In addition we will continue to monitor our lead indicators and deploy the Groups traditional strengths in active cost control to manage our cost ratios before expected movements in turnover trends.
With like-for-like performance ahead of market, superior operating margins to any comparable operator and a full pipeline of opportunities to expand further, we are well placed to continue our progress in what we expect to be a more challenging market in 2008.
T. E. P. Stevenson Chairman 3 March 2008 11 CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT
