Group overview Chairmans statement Record production, cashow and exploration success in 2007, supported by strong oil pricing, create a platform for Tullow to continue to grow rapidly over the coming years.
Meeting the challenge 2007 was a year of many firsts for Tullow including our largest oil discovery ever and entry into the FTSE 100 Index.
Our business has grown rapidly in recent years andour success is the result of consistent application of a balanced strategy that combines strong operational focus with a commitment to investment in our exploration portfolio.
Of course, continued growth will also bring with it new challenges and risks, and we recognise that our strategy and business management must be sufficiently flexible to adapt to changing circumstances, emerging opportunities and occasional failures.
We believe that Tullow has unique advantages that will enable us to achieve our objectives in each of our core areas: Our UK gas business is mature and requires carefully targeted investment in order to maintain production and extend the life of assets and related infrastructure.
We have consistently proven our ability to apply an innovative commercial and operational approach to maximise asset value: In Africa, we have established an outstanding acreage portfolio and made a number of extremely exciting discoveries.
We are focused on rapid growth and commercialisation of our interests, most importantly in Ghana and Uganda, and have more than doubled our team in the Cape Town office to achieve this: In South Asia, growing operated production and exciting high impact exploration provide the potential for rapid growth in a region with ever-increasing energy demand: and Our recently acquired South American portfolio provides an opportunity to apply our extensive knowledge of the geoglogy of West Africa to analogous and less explored basins and prospects across the Atlantic.
6 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The challenges weve met so far Acquisition of UK Oil field acquisition Acquisition of Oil discovered Hardman Resources World class oil and redevelopment gas business Energy Africa in Uganda Acquisition discovery in Ghana 2001 2007 1997 2004 2005 2006 Acquisition of a stake Mature infrastructure Major expansion in Major oil province Hardman acquired for Offshore Jubilee hubs and associated field discovered with in the abandoned Africa with US$570 established in the US$1.1 billion.
Enhanced Espoir field, Cte gas fields purchased million acquisition Lake Albert Rift acreage position and potential to more than for 201 million double Tullows reserves.
Utilising adding 14 producing Basin with eight out control in Uganda, modern 3D seismic from BP.
Significant fields and 37 of eight hydrocarbon added full-cycle business Field appraisal production and reserve programme and and secondary recovery exploration licences.
discoveries made to in Mauritania and techniques, the field growth achieved Strong organic date.
Potential to broadened our worldwide development planning through exploration, already commenced.
returned to production production and transform Tullows exploration portfolio.
in 2002 and has since development and reserves growth reserves base.
Year-end share price pence sterling 139 77 153 270 398 652 Attracting and retaining a quality team to our long-term ability to conduct our During 2007 the Board engaged We have always given a high priority to business and run our projects.
 LLP to recruitment and retention of a strong undertake a performance review of the Proper assumption of our responsibilities, and versatile team.
Although we are part operation and conduct of the Board and which is our goal, can also have a very of an industry where skills shortages and to provide specific feedback to individual positive impact on regional employment adverse demographics have been a major Directors.
This review will be a valuable and economic progress and helps to challenge in recent years, Tullows visible input in continuing to ensure the Tullow establish a positive working partnership success and growth have been a key Board provides the optimal level of with local communities, regardless of advantage in attracting top people and strategic guidance, executive support the success or failure of our exploration.
today Tullow has over 350 employees.
and appropriate challenge over the coming years.
Our highly skilled technical team have Governing effectively experience operating in all the major Tullow has been a listed company since Looking ahead oil and gas play types around the 1987.
We entered the FTSE All-Share By building on the progress made in 2007 world.
Their skills are fundamental to Index upon registration as a UK Company we have the potential to more than double maintaining a comprehensive knowledge in December 2000, and proudly became the size of Tullow over the coming years.
of the regions and geological basins a member of the FTSE 100 Index in This is no small task but I believe we have where we operate, and evaluating September 2007.
Overall, Tullow is the opportunity and the ability but most emerging opportunities important subject to a high degree of regulation and importantly the appetite to ensure for the future of our business.
stakeholder scrutiny and it is paramount Tullow meets this challenge and continues that the business is effectively managed Our growth has also meant that Tullow to deliver superior shareholder value.
by the Executive and governed by the has increasingly been able to provide I would like to thank shareholders for Board.
The maintenance of an open and structured career and personal their support and our employees for their regular dialogue with all shareholders development through international commitment over 2007 and I look forward secondment, short-term assignments and and market participants is also accorded to reporting to you on our progress in individually tailored training programmes.
Governance Report is on page 48 to 56 We believe that this focus on employee of this report, including a new introduction development, along with stimulating and overview by me.
work, competitive remuneration and equity participation will allow Tullow to In December 2007 Rohan Courtney retired continue to meet the staffing challenges Pat Plunkett from the Board of Tullow, having served that our industry and business face.
Chairman as a director for over 14 years, including 14 years as Chairman of the Audit Operating responsibly Committee and seven years as Senior Tullows business involves very significant Independent Director.
On behalf of the numbers of people and is equipment Board I would like to thank Rohan for intensive.
Our operations, particularly his immense contribution to Tullow drilling campaigns, have a very visible over this period.
physical presence and are frequently Following Rohans departure, Steven in remote areas.
Our exploration and McTiernan has been appointed as the development programmes are planned Senior Independent Director, and David and executed to minimise the negative impacts of our activities, and to assist Williams has become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition Clare local communities wherever possible.
An excellent example of this is our Spottiswoode has been appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Groupwide initiative to contribute to childrens education, which during 2007 Finally we have commenced a process assisted over 7,000 children in seven to identify and appoint an additional countries where we conduct business.
non-executive Director during 2008 and Corporate Social Responsibility is critical will report on progress in due course.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
