04 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report in my first Chairmans Statement to Shareholders that 2007 was a successful year for United Business Media both financially and operationally.
1 Adjusted continuing group operating profit increased by 2 11.5% to 166.1m 2006: 149.0m.
Diluted earnings per share adjusted increased by 19.4% to 52.3p 2006: 43.8p.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.76p 2006: 13.6p, bringing the total dividend for the year to 21.6p, an increase of 20.0% on 2006s 18.0p.
During the year a total of 276m of capital was returned to shareholders by way of a special dividend of 200m and 76m by means of buying back shares.
My first duty is to thank my predecessor, Geoff Unwin, for his magnificent job as Chairman over the last five years and as a member of the Board for the previous six years.
As Chairman, Geoff oversaw the wholesale transformation of UBM as a company and the creation of significant value for shareholders.
I would also UBM has a clearly articulated strategy which, like to thank Charles Gregson for the significant contribution he has made to the Boards deliberations during his eleven years as at its simplest, is to build businesses which an executive director of UBM, and also for the previous twelve connect buyers and sellers, helping them to years he served as a director of MAI plc prior its merger with do business and their markets to operate United.
Charles will continue to make a major contribution to the efficiently and effectively.
Our expertise lies company in his role as the Chief Executive Officer of PR Newswire.
in supporting commercial and professional UBM has a clearly articulated strategy which, at its simplest, is to build businesses which connect buyers and sellers, helping communities with products that are integrated them to do business and their markets to operate efficiently and across different media channels.
We aim for each of our businesses to be at the heart of commercial and professional communities, providing each community with a rich, tailored and complete range of media products the must attend event, the must read content, the must use market analysis or business information resource.
Our expertise lies in supporting these commercial and professional communities with products that are integrated across different media channels.
1 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, and excluding operating profits of discontinued operations.
2 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, net financing costs other than interest and deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
EPS also excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05 Each of our businesses serves its market in different ways more than 385m in 52 acquisitions, principally of events and PR Newswire helps businesses and many other organisations data-based business, which generated over 50m on a pro communicate, and increasingly interact, with a target audience.
We have also significantly pruned Professional game software developers around the world read our portfolio through the disposal of non-core assets, generating CMP Technologys Gamasutra website or Game Developer 780m since 2005.
However, having substantially refocused the Magazine, attend the various Game Developer events and use business, our disposals activity was minimal in 2007. the MyGDC social networking site.
Professionals working in the In 2007 we completed 17 acquisitions for almost 100m.
We will continue to accelerate UBMs development through UK building industry read CMP Informations Building magazine or use the Building website to keep abreast of industry investing in both organic product development and in acquisitions aiming to invest 300-500m in acquisitions during 2008 and developments or to look for a new job.
For the jewellery industry in Asia, the dozen Jewellery and Watch shows run by CMP Asia 2009.
The Board is confident in our teams capacity and ability to are must attend events.
Commonwealths PIERS information identify, close and successfully integrate our acquisitions.
products support the everyday work processes of businesses Our balance sheet remains strong with net debt of 157.5m involved in import and export.
CMPMedicas Vidal drug at year end.
We returned 276m of capital during 2007 and have information directory increasingly a digital product is an set out our intention to return 200m-300m to shareholders by integral part of General Practioners prescribing process in the end of 2009. many countries.
We recognise that one of the most important components of UBM drives its profitable growth by strengthening and accelerating UBMs profitable growth is how we recruit, develop extending its existing brands and businesses into new product and retain our key staff, particularly our most talented managers.
We invest in new product development The UBM Business Leaders Programme is developing high calibre and in acquisitions which complement our existing products and business leaders.
In 2007 the Programme had 21 senior delegates help our businesses develop their integrated media portfolios.
drawn from every one of UBMs businesses.
Investing in the UBM is an increasingly international business, with less than 15% development of high potential staff is evolving UBM into a more of profits now being earned in the UK.
Our focus on international entrepreneurial and innovative company.
expansion will continue as we seek out opportunities to export our UBM has a clear, well-established strategy and a proven successful products to parts of the world which are experiencing management team who are implementing this strategy effectively.
rapid economic growth, particularly China, India and Latin UBM will continue the development of its business organically America.
In 2008 PR Newswire has opened its first bureau in and by acquisition, expanding its core businesses, entering new Mumbai, India and CMP Asia has run its first event in Macau.
UBM is well placed to deliver UBMs management team, led by David Levin, has been another strong performance for our shareholders in 2008. highly effective in devising and executing this strategy.
Equally Nigel Wilson is an integral part of that team and has made a great contribution to UBM over the past six years.
My Board colleagues and I are delighted that Nigel has taken on the role of Deputy CEO alongside that of Chief Financial Officer.
During the last three years UBM has been transformed to the point where around 80% of our earnings are generated from John Botts news distribution, events and data-based products.
Much of the Chairman structural reshaping of UBMs underlying business has been 29 February 2008 achieved through acquisitions since 2005 we have invested
