Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans statement Total dividend per share 15% growth 21.2p 2006: 18.5p Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman The Board has an evaluation process in which the effectiveness of Dear shareholder the Board, its subcommittees and each individual Director are I am pleased to report that 2007 has been another good year for assessed over a rolling two year period.
Your company has continued to benefit from its long-term of the individual Directors was reviewed with the assistance of an focus on gaining strong market positions through being a niche external consultant.
supplier of electronic systems, products and services in growing sectors within the defence and aerospace markets.
In many With regard to the new Transparency Directive all companies have instances, Ultras systems, equipment or services are mission-critical to produce Interim Management Statements.
We will be doing for the platform to which they contribute.
this but will not be moving to quarterly reporting.
The Board believes that the financial return derived from pursuing the Groups The Group increased profit before tax by 11% and generated an strategy is only evident over a longer time frame.
operating cash flow of 52 million whilst investing more in new markets, technologies, products and capabilities.
As a result of At the centre of Ultras success are its employees and, on behalf this performance we are proposing to increase the total dividend of the Board, I thank our people for their hard work and per share by 15% to 21.2p.
This is in line with the Groups policy dedication.
With so much professionalism, commitment and of maintaining dividend cover at about three times.
enthusiasm in the Group, talent management is an area where we place great emphasis in order to recruit, retain and develop Most importantly, the year has also seen us make good progress the skills of staff at all levels of the organisation.
The investment towards the Boards main objective of delivering superior that we make in our people is vital to equip Ultra to meet the performance to shareholders, as measured through total challenges of the future, to ensure that we capitalise on the many shareholder return.
In terms of total shareholder return, Ultra opportunities before us to win new business and to continue the outperformed the FTSE 250 index as a whole again in 2007, as it development of the Group.
has done over the last five years.
In conclusion, your company is in excellent shape and is on course The resilience of Ultras superior financial performance is derived to continue to deliver superior shareholder value.
Ultra has a from the Groups broad mix of activities within its twenty one broad range of products and services and has a successful track businesses, with no single programme contributing more than 5% record of winning positions on a wide range of international of revenue in any year.
As an independent company Ultra is able, programmes.
Combined with healthy market conditions, this gives subject to appropriate approvals, to provide its niche solutions to the Board confidence in further progress in 2008. all of the free worlds defence prime contractors.
The Groups structure of three divisions with individual businesses addressing Dr Julian Blogh, Chairman specific niche areas under the control of empowered management teams enables it to operate in a flexible and agile way.
By constantly pursuing product and process innovation, Ultras businesses are in a strong position to provide and deliver differentiated products, services and solutions to meet customer requirements.
Consequently, the Group has established and The Group has established and sustains sustains leadership positions in niche markets where its technological innovation creates a clear competitive advantage.
leadership positions in niche markets Ultra has a robust annual strategic review process.
Each year, a where its technological innovation rolling five year plan is reviewed and refreshed.
At the core of this creates a clear competitive advantage.
review process is the need to ensure we are maximising long-term value for shareholders while acting responsibly.
02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
