Report of the Directors Chairmans statement When I joined Unilever in May 2007 I was aware that the Unilever All three joined our Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Executive led by Patrick Cescau was driving a process of sweeping Committee when they took up their posts in May.
Their change aimed at transforming the Group.
Since then I have appointment to this committee, now chaired by Lord Brittan, visited a number of Unilever operations in Asia and Europe.
I have signals its growing importance and the Groups commitment to met with many employees and learned a great deal about the keeping sustainability at the heart of its activities.
brands which the Group sells and the technology which underpins them.
I have also spoken to investors to get their perceptions of Each of the newcomers was given an extensive programme of the business.
induction covering key issues facing the business.
All of these encounters have confirmed the preconceptions which In September 2007 we also welcomed Jim Lawrence as our new I had before joining the Group: Unilever is a business with an Chief Financial officer: he will be proposed for election as an extraordinary portfolio of brands, talented people, deep roots in Executive Director at the AGMs in May 2008.
Jim, who came developing and emerging markets, a strong commitment to from General Mills, is a Non-Executive Director of British Airways sustainability and a distinctive corporate culture.
He replaced Rudy Markham who retired in 2007 after a distinguished career spanning four decades.
The Groups strong performance in 2007, with higher growth and an improvement in underlying margin, is something about which Whilst welcoming Jim, we will be saying goodbye to two the entire business can feel proud.
It is also further validation that Directors who are leaving.
Kees van der Graaf after 32 years the strategy being pursued by Patrick and his team is the right service in the business, most recently as President, Europe and one, and that this strategy is being executed very effectively.
Ralph Kugler, currently President, Home and Personal Care, who has served the business for 29 years.
On behalf of the Boards I This strategy with its sharp focus on Vitality products, developing thank them both for the significant contribution they have made markets and faster growing product areas like personal care has to our business throughout their careers.
The structure is much leaner and simpler.
It is enabling Unilever to maximise its considerable During the year, we also said goodbye to Jean-Cyril Spinetta who advantages of buying, manufacturing and marketing scale.
stepped down as a member of the Boards and the Remuneration Committee.
I would like to acknowledge his wise counsel and Some of the restructuring which has taken place has led to a experience during his term as a Non-Executive Director.
Decisions which have an impact on employees lives and livelihoods are never taken lightly.
In our Board meetings, we have discussed a wide range of topics However, I have been impressed and reassured by the caring and including the Groups annual plan, performance in key markets responsible way in which the Group has executed these changes.
such as Russia and China, organisation and talent, and the role of science and technology.
We also reviewed and fully agreed the The Boards in 2007 Unilever strategy and the new plans to accelerate change, Corporate governance in Unilever has undergone radical change including portfolio change and business restructuring.
We continue to ensure that we meet the highest standards in all the markets in which we operate.
An important part of my role is consistently to evaluate the effectiveness of the Boards.
In 2007 our Senior Independent The composition of the Boards themselves has also evolved.
We Director and I conducted a formal assessment, including have enriched their diversity and experience with three new  interviews with each Board member.
The Executive Directors: Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and findings were discussed by the Boards and will result in further Genevieve Berger.
Narayana, co-founder and Chairman of Infosys Technologies I am proud that we have Boards that are properly equipped to Limited, brings a deep knowledge of emerging markets and give Patrick and his team all the support that they need.
expertise in IT as well as impressive business leadership skills.
Hixonia is a highly experienced Non-Executive Director with Sasol On a personal note, I nd this an exciting time to work for Ltd. She is also an Advisory Board Member of JP Morgan South Unilever.
The business is doing well and, with its wealth of Africa and brings first-hand experience of African markets.
talented people, its great global brands and its ambitious business Genevieve contributes her impressive expertise in research and plans, is on track to do even better.
On behalf of the Boards, I development: she is Professor of Biophysics and Medical Imaging would like to thank all the Groups employees around the world at Paris University VI and Chairman of the Advisory Board Health for all that they have done in 2007.
I look forward to serving the for the EU Commission for Research.
Unilever Group to the very best of my ability in the years ahead.
Michael Treschow Chairman Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
