DELIVERING VALUE 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Vedanta Resources is emerging as an exceptional diversified mining company with a world class resource base.
Our record of delivery continues with strong financial results and project completions on time and within budget.
The $2.2 billion of growth projects that we set out at the time of our IPO have essentially been completed and a further $5.3 billion of projects are well underway, taking us towards our goal of one million tonnes in each of our metals.
Performance in 2007 Our project pipeline is unique in our I am delighted to report that our group has delivered another excellent years result.
We reported revenues of industry as is our proven ability to $6.5 billion, up 76% over last year with a record EBITDA deliver organic growth.
Return on capital employed excluding project capital work in progress more than with our successful diversification doubled to 78.5%.
Our portfolio of existing assets and completed expansion projects continue to yield superior into iron ore and power, we are in a performance and we continue to make investments that strong position to deliver superior will drive sustainable long-term growth.
We are emerging as an exceptional diversified mining company with world returns to our shareholders.
Our record of delivery continues with project completions on time and within budget and strong financial results.
Accelerating Organic growth Diversification Through Leveraging Established Skills We are implementing a $7.5 billion organic growth I am delighted to announce our 51% acquisition of Sesa programme.
The $2.2 billion expansion programme Goa Ltd. a high quality iron ore company in India, for announced at the time of our IPO in December 2003 $1.0 billion, shortly after the year end.
This acq uisit ion is a in aluminium, zinc and copper pipeline is now almost natural fit for Vedanta and provides us with strong growth complete.
The next phase of our expansion announced potential by leveraging our established project and mining at a total cost of $5.3 billion is now well underway.
It provides us with a strategic leadership position at creating one million tonnes in each of our metals, in an important bulk commodity and places us in an ideal with industry leading capital costs and record time to position to capitalise on Indias huge iron ore reserves, commissioning, this offers a solid foundation for continued the worlds third largest.
These growth projects are fully funded and we believe will deliver superior returns on Consolidation of minorities our capital investment.
Rigorous discipline in evaluating The consolidation of our corporate structure remains a key projects and maintaining the financial flexibility of a strong pillar of our strategy.
We have made significant strides on balance sheet continue to underpin every single capital this front, with our share of attributable profits currently investment that we make.
However, I believe further significant opportunities lie ahead of us, We began construction of a 2,400MW Independent Power in respect of our buyouts of the minority stakes in BALCO, Project in Jharsuguda, at an estimated cost of $1.9 billion, KCM and HZL.
I look forward to reporting progress on scheduled for completion in 2010.
India has large thermal these initiatives during the year.
Also, our recent acquisition coal resources of over 250 billion tonnes.
The coal industry of Sesa was accompanied by an open offer to acquire an is in the process of government deregulation, which will additional 20% of that company, which we expect to enable us to obtain coal blocks for our power plants.
conclude by July of this year.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 COmPANy OVERViEw COmPANy OVERViEw 07 Aerial view of the potline at the upcoming Jharsuguda project delivering STrOng reSUlTS ThrOUgh ADDED VALUE People We lay much emphasis on enhancing the quality of life The past year demonstrates the power of literally tens for the communities in which we operate.
Our focus on of thousands of high calibre individuals working together health and education continues in partnership with local to move our organisation forward.
It gives me great and regional authorities.
The midday meal scheme in satisfaction to see where we are as a company as well as Chittorgarh, Rajasthan positively impacting the lives of nearly two hundred thousand children is an initiative that great enthusiasm for Vedantas future.
The women and men of our company have driven superior results by executing is especially close to my heart.
our ambitious targets, while remaining true to our values.
The success story that I am able to report in this statement Outlook Global demand for metals continues to be strong on the is due to their passion, commitment and contribution which deserves the highest praise and recognition.
back of strong consumption from China, India and other emerging markets, supported by increased activity from I would also like to thank all my fellow directors for their industrial and infrastructure sectors.
Economic and industrial growth in India will continue to drive double digit invaluable contribution to our decision making and the healthy and constructive direction and support they provide growth in our commodities.
With our recently concluded acquisition of Sesa, our product portfolio now mirrors our management team.
Our project pipeline is Sustainable Development unique in our industry as is our proven ability to deliver Sustainable development is an integral part of our business organic growth, resulting in superior returns to our philosophy.
The processes and performance on safety, shareholders.
health, environment and community development continue ANiL AgARwAL to evolve in line with the vision set out as part of our HSE and social policies.
Efforts in the areas of lost time injuries Chairman and conservation of natural resources such as water and energy yielded particularly positive results.
15 May 2007 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 08 INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS REVIEW We are a diversified metals and mining group with principal operations in India, Australia and Zambia.
We primarily produce aluminium, copper, zinc and lead.
Quality control in progress at Lanjigarh refinery Our goal is to create a world class metals and mining The key strengths of our businesses are: business and generate strong financial returns for our n worldclass, high quality resources of global scale: shareholders.
We seek to achieve this by: n focus on operational excellence: n optimising and realising the full potential of our assets n a strong competitive position in the growing Indian and and reducing unit costs of production, including Asian markets with a diversified portfolio: maximizing throughput, debottlenecking of existing n experience in operating and expanding our business, capacities, increasing operational efficiencies and plant allowing us to capitalise on the growth and resource availability, reducing energy costs and consumption, potential of India: increasing automation, improving recoveries, reducing n management and execution teams with proven track raw material costs and seeking better utilisation of record for value delivery and improving operational byproducts: efficiency and profitability: n completing our growth pipeline projects within budget n a strong pipeline of expansion projects: and and on time to capitalise upon the growing demand for n strong cash flows and robust balance sheet to pursue metals in India and abroad, particularly in China, South world class projects.
East Asia and Middle East: n consolidating our group structure and continuing to increase our ownership in the underlying businesses: and n leveraging established skills by seeking further growth opportunities in India and outside India in the metals and mining and related businesses.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 09 FY 2007 Performance Highlights Summary performance in FY 2007 is set out in the table below.
Similarly, the absolute contribution Others 0.3 12.9 102.3 of the Aluminium and Zinc Businesses to the EBITDA Unallocated corporate expenses 1.6 1.7 5.9 significantly increased due to higher revenue growth and 2,505.9 943.8 165.5 higher EBITDA margins in these businesses as compared with FY 2006.
EBITDA Margin Aluminium 41.8% 29.9% n a Operating costs were stable in all businesses, despite Copper 23.4% 19.0% n a significant industry cost pressures due to increase in India Australia 14.3% 14.2% n a inflation, freight, power costs and raw material prices, Zambia 46.1% 29.3% n a except in respect of our Copper Zambia operations where Zinc 77.0% 60.9% n a they have increased.
Group 41.6% 29.8% n a EBITDA margin increased to 41.6% from 29.8% in the Group revenues in FY 2007 were $6,502.2 million, an previous year primarily due to higher production volumes, increase of 75.6% compared with the previous year with better price realisations and a change in the product and EBITDA more than doubled at $2,703.0 million.
profit in FY 2007 was $2,505.9 million, an increase of 165.5% compared with $943.8 million in the previous year.
Capital employed excluding project capital work in These increases were primarily due to higher volumes progress increased from $1,742.1 million to $2,328.7 million, and better prices realised across all metals.
The major an increase of $586.6 million.
This was due to capitalisation increase in volume was in the Aluminium Business due to of Phase 1 expansion projects, capital expenditure during a substantial increase in production from the new Korba FY 2007 incurred in Phase II projects and the consequent smelter and in zinc mined production leading to additional increase in working capital.
Despite this increase, ROCE sales of zinc and lead concentrate during the year.
excluding project capital work in progress was 78.5% in FY 2007, up from 37.9% in the previous year mainly due to The revenue mix in FY 2007 has also changed primarily due to an increase in contribution from the Aluminium and Zinc improved productivity and higher metal prices.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
