8 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement John Morgan 2007 saw strong underlying performance in building the business, The Board believes that such challenging objectives must be properly but a shortfall against our annual production objective.
We indicated at incentivised and rewarded and an important new Long Term Share the start of the year that there were project timing risks late in the year Incentive Plan will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, and in the event there were some significant delays.
These, together with designed to align senior management in the delivery of this some operational issues beyond managements direct control, meant that new challenge.
we failed to deliver our production growth objectives.
All of this shortfall was delayed, rather than lost and major progress was made in delivering The Board and its Committees have continued to exercise a positive and fide-risking important projects including the Kittiwake pipeline, the approach to the governance of the Company.
Reports from the Ensign appraisal well, and the Chiswick Gamma well.
Strong oil prices Committees are included in this document and I would like to thank and strengthening gas prices meant that our cash generation capacity all my Board colleagues for their very constructive contributions.
remained strong despite weak gas prices early in the year.
I would like to There have been a number of changes in Board composition during express my thanks to all of Ventures staff and contractors who worked the year.
These are described within the Directors Report on pages very hard to deliver real progress and to overcome a number of very 34 to 36. difficult challenges.
Following these changes the Board comprised four Executive Directors, Safety and Environmental Management are top priorities for Venture four independent Non-Executives, three non-independent Non-Executives and the year was another one of strong performance and commitment.
and myself, the Non-Executive Chairman.
This is now quite a large Board, The Board is pleased with the development of the Technical Integrity but does not conform to corporate governance guidance that at least Management System and the Carbon Management Strategy.
Enhanced half the Board excluding the Chairman should be independent environmental regulation means that this area will remain a major focus Non-Executives.
for management and the Board.
The Board has carefully considered how to balance the objective of not The Company has maintained a consistent strategy with its focus on becoming unwieldy through size with assurance that the interests of all stranded assets in the North Sea.
The development of operational, shareholders are being safeguarded.
While the Board was satisfied that the technical and commercial capacity has allowed us to build a strong existing independent Directors would achieve this, it decided that it was competitive position which, together with our sound balance sheet appropriate to add a further independent Director to provide additional will allow us to continue to grow the business over the next few years.
tangible assurance that, although the Board is not in compliance with During 2007 we reviewed our strategic objectives and concluded that guidelines, the independent Director presence is powerful enough our financial and competitive strength and organisational capability to demonstrably provide a full level of safeguard.
A search process was allow us to set new and very ambitious objectives for the next four years, initiated and I am delighted to welcome Andrew Carr-Locke to the Board which would result in a doubling of the scale and value of the business.
Andrew brings strong management experience and until recently was Group Finance Director of a major listed company.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 The significant investment of 200 million from 3i Group plc and ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC has created another exciting new stage in the development of Venture and underpins our growth plans for the future.
I believe that we have an experienced Board with the right mix of skills to steer Venture through its next very challenging phase of growing the value of the business.
During 2007 the Board indicated its intended priorities for the use of free cash flow generated: firstly, acquisitions or other internally generated business development opportunities which meet Ventures strict investment criteria: secondly, maintaining debt at a sustainable long term level: and, thirdly, returning capital to shareholders through dividends, share buy-backs or other mechanisms.
In 2007 a dividend of 50.0 pence per share was approved, comprising an ordinary dividend of 10.0 pence per share and a special dividend of 40.0 pence per share.
This year the Board has proposed an ordinary dividend of 12.0 pence per share subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2008.
