CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE PAST YEAR HAS WITNESSED THE COMMENCEMENT OF A NEW PHASE IN THE GROUPS EVOLUTION, ONE OF INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH.
I am pleased to report another year of excellent progress Proposed acquisition of Foseco for the Group in 2007.
This reflects the successful On 11 October 2007, after several months of negotiations implementation of a clear strategic plan for our business, and due diligence activity, we announced that the boards of first announced in January 2005 and updated in November Cookson and Foseco had agreed terms for a recommended 2006, when new and more stretching performance targets offer for Cookson to acquire Foseco for just over 600 million were introduced.
The achievement of these targets required in cash and assumed debt.
On the same day, we raised extensive restructuring and rationalisation in mature 151 million through an over-subscribed share placement markets whilst expanding our presence in emerging and announced new bank facilities totalling 950 million to markets and lower cost production areas of the world.
fund the acquisition and refinance the enlarged group.
We Additionally, our poorest performing and most cyclical have recently received approval for the transaction from businesses have been divested, generating funds for rethe competition authorities in the US and Europe and, investment in more profitable activities.
subject to shareholder approval at our Extraordinary The past year has witnessed the commencement of General Meeting on 11 March 2008, expect to complete the a new phase in the Groups evolution, one of investment acquisition on 4 April 2008. for growth.
Growth will be achieved through acquisition Foseco reported revenue of 409 million and a trading where there is a clear and compelling industrial and profit of 46 million in 2006.
It is a leading supplier of financial rationale with significant benefits for Cooksons consumable products worldwide for use in the foundry and shareholders and our other stakeholders.
Organic growth steel-making industries and its activities are highly will result from investment in new manufacturing facilities complementary to those of our Ceramics division.
On and further capacity expansion to meet demand in high- 22 February 2008, Foseco announced that it had recorded growth markets where we enjoy leading positions.
another strong performance in 2007, with full year revenue of 431 million, an increase of 8% at constant exchange rates.
Cookson Group plc 6 Annual Report 2007 OUR BUSINESS The combination of these businesses will provide offset the effect of adopting longer life expectancy opportunities to enhance the growth of both while at the assumptions in the calculation of the pension liabilities.
same time providing customers in foundry and steel Hence, even before we raised the proceeds from the production markets with an excellent range of value-added 151 million share placement in October, the Group had a products and services.
We expect the integration of these strong, investment grade balance sheet.
two businesses to generate significant synergies through Financing the forthcoming acquisition of Foseco via a the ability to cross-sell each business products and combination of debt and equity ensures that we should services, the elimination of duplicate overhead costs and maintain strong, investment grade balance sheet ratios increased purchasing efficiencies.
Hence we anticipate going forward.
attractive returns and earnings per share enhancement from this transaction.
Board and corporate governance This acquisition is expected to meet in full the financial The Board and Executive Committee have remained return parameters we have set for ourselves in our strategic unchanged since my last report.
I am confident that we have plan.
an excellent team in place with the right blend of skills and experience to deliver continuing improvements in Organic growth performance and to promote the success of the Company During 2007, the Ceramics division completed several new for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
production facilities in Mexico, Poland and China The Board is responsible for overseeing the Companys representing an investment of almost 20 million.
We also strategy and monitoring performance.
Through its own announced plans to invest over 40 million in several actions and those of the Board committees, the Board further capacity expansion projects in Ceramics to be continues to meet its commitment to the highest standards completed in 2008.
In particular, we are adding significant of corporate governance.
additional capacity to meet demand for our market-leading Solar Crucible product line where the worldwide market is Employees currently growing at over 25% per year.
As in previous years, I would like to offer my sincere thanks The Electronics division also announced plans for a to all of our employees worldwide for their contributions to 9 million investment in a new Chemistry factory in China the Groups success.
This year I would also like to extend a where we hope to commence construction shortly for warm welcome to the approximately 3,000 new employees completion next year.
who should be joining us shortly from Foseco.
Lastly, the Precious Metals division, on a smaller scale, started production from a new low labour cost facility in Outlook Thailand in August 2007 and has just completed a similar Given the excellent progress achieved in the execution of facility in the Dominican Republic.
our strategy, I am confident that the Group is in robust All these investments are forecast to deliver attractive shape to face the future.
I look forward to continued economic returns and should enable us to deliver further progress, particularly with the exciting opportunities profitable growth through 2008, 2009 and beyond.
presented by the Foseco acquisition.
Profitability The Groups results for 2007 also show strong progress with trading profit from continuing operations at constant exchange rates up 17% and return on sales margins up a full one percentage point to 10.5%.
Headline profit before tax increased 14% to 149.6 million and headline earnings Robert Beeston Chairman per share improved 17% to 54.3 pence.
11 March 2008 Dividend In October, we paid an interim dividend of 4.25 pence in respect of 2007 interim 2006: 3.00 pence.
We are recommending a final dividend of 8.75 pence for 2007 to give a total dividend in respect of 2007 of 13.00 pence 2006: 10.00 pence.
Financial strength Over the past few years we have substantially reduced Group debt through disposal proceeds and cash generation from operations.
At the same time the Groups pension deficit has been significantly reduced via accelerated top-up payments into the UK pension plan, which have more than Cookson Group plc 7 Annual Report 2007
