Chairmans Statement Key: Vodafone Share price vs FTSE 100 Reaching the 200 million proportionate customer pence milestone has been a tremendous achievement for 15% vs. FTSE 100 160 your Company and now we are on the edge of a 140 further revolution as we enter the era of broadband and internet communications.
120 100 April 2006 May 2007 The Vodafone brand is enormously well known and highly regarded across the It was an honour to become your Chairman at the AGM in July 2006.
I joined Vodafone from the world of banking, whose history and institutions run back over globe.
It was recently rated the most powerful UK brand by the leading research many centuries.
The mobile telephone industry is very much younger and even in company Millward Brown, and number 22 in the world.
the last twenty years has seen dramatic changes which have transformed the face Your Board takes the management of Vodafones reputation very seriously, of telecommunications and society.
When Vodafone first started to operate more together with our commitments in corporate responsibility.
We have set out than 20 years ago, the telecommunications industry was dominated by fixed line clearly in a separate report what we have achieved in this area.
A one hour local phone call within the UK cost 4.56: today, the same proud of our global handset recycling initiative and our ongoing programme on call on the Vodafone network could cost as little as 21 pence.
energy efficiency in our networks.
With the unprecedented growth of mobile The Board is very conscious of the concerns which are communications since the mid 1980s, the effects on expressed about possible health issues in relation to mobile Dividend per share other sectors, the wider economy and society as a 0 246 8 phones.
As a responsible company, we fund and support 2006 2007 whole have been far reaching.
Changes in independent research into this important area and our communications have underpinned the development 6.07p 6.76p 11.4% policy is to be completely transparent in relation to this of the whole IT industry, helped economic growth, issue, which your Board reviews on a regular basis.
particularly in developing markets, and enabled On the Board, there have been a number of changes since the AGM in 2006.
We families, friends and communities to communicate across countries and said farewell to Thomas Geitner as an executive director and we thank him for all time zones.
he has done for the business and wish him well in the future.
Alec Broers retires Mobile telephones have been of enormous benefit to society and, as a market from the Board at this years AGM and we are grateful for his significant leader, Vodafone has played a major role.
Reaching the 200 million proportionate contribution, including his chairmanship of the Vodafone Group Foundation, over customer milestone in this financial year has been a tremendous achievement for his nine years as a non-executive director.
We welcomed back Vittorio Colao as your Company and now we are on the edge of a further revolution as we enter the Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Executive of our European region.
We have era of wireless broadband and internet communications.
appointed three new non-executive directors, Alan Jebson, Nick Land and Simon There are currently around three billion mobile customers globally.
We need non-executive directors who are equipped with the skill set to the majority are in the western world.
We believe we will see 70% of the growth in understand the rapidly changing markets in terms of consumer taste, technology and the emerging markets in which we operate.
Future appointments will ensure customers in the next five years coming from emerging markets.
The challenges we face in these markets are very different from the challenges we face in our European that we have the right balance of skills and experience.
During the year we also and mature markets.
We will continue to expand in markets where mobile handsets completed an independent Board evaluation by MWM Consulting to ensure the are not widely dispersed and where there is rising GNP per capita.
This is why we highest standards of corporate governance.
have acquired the business of Hutchison Essar in India, to deliver a major presence Your Board looks at any acquisition in a disciplined way and our decision to acquire in a market with penetration of around 14%, which we believe will become larger Hutchison Essar was completed within the financial criteria we have set ourselves.
than the European Union within a reasonable time frame.
We also take decisions to sell businesses or minority shareholdings where better The challenge in Europe, where the markets are mature and penetration is, in many value for shareholders is more likely to arise from reinvestment elsewhere or by cases, over 100%, is quite different and we need to find more efficiencies through returning the funds through dividends or buybacks.
During the year, we sold our initiatives such as network sharing to improve our productivity and developing other interests in Belgium and Switzerland for this reason.
services beyond voice to help us grow new revenue.
We are confident about Vodafones future and your Board has proposed a final Across the world, governments and regulators see our industry in very different dividend of 4.41 pence per share, bringing total dividends for the year to 6.76 pence ways, from being a source of tax revenue through to being an important part of per share, up 11.4% on last year, and representing a payout ratio of 60% of adjusted earnings per share.
We continue to look for sources of profitable growth within the social and economic infrastructure of the country.
The impact of regulation on our business can be significant, as we have seen during the year with the highly penetrated markets.
We have a particularly strong position in the business government intervention on our tariffs in Italy and at a European level on roaming.
sector which we intend to develop further.
We also plan to grow services beyond core voice and messaging and continue to search for new sources of revenue which are closely related to our customers needs.
The mobile phone is an enormously versatile device and one of the features of the last 20 years has been the new uses to which the phone can be adapted, including data services, entertainment, advertising, internet portals and, most recently, financial payments.
In my first months as Chairman, I have spent time in and around the Group meeting customers, suppliers, business partners, other stakeholders and my new colleagues in our offices, retail stores, call centres and canteens.
I have also visited seven of our international operations.
I have been enormously impressed by the talented people at all levels within Vodafone and I am fortunate to be involved with such a young and dynamic business.
Your Board wants to pay tribute to all our 66,000 people and to thank them on your behalf for all they do to help Vodafone progress in a rapidly changing business environment.
We, as a Board, look forward to your continuing support as we address the challenges ahead.
