chaiRMans statEMEnt Chairmans Statement THIS HAS BEEN ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR THE GROUP WITH SOLID GROWTH UNDERPINNED BY A NUMBER OF LARGE CONTRACT WINS AND A STRONG PERFORMANCE FROM kEY ACqUISITIONS.
Michael Jeffries Chairman Group revenue including joint ventures increased by Our commitment to long-term partnering contracts is 19% to 1,005m 2006: 847m.
Underlying profit before further strengthened by the announcement of the VT and taxation improved by 21% to 74.2m 2006: 61.5m Lockheed Martin Joint Venture Ascent as the preferred with the corresponding adjusted earnings per share bidder on the Uk Military Flying Training System MFTS.
Further, in February, VT was selected as Preferred Bidder This performance has enabled the Board to to provide support services for the Search and Rescue recommend a final dividend of 8.6 pence, giving a Sea king helicopter fleet.
These programmes, together total dividend for the year of 11.85 pence per share, with contract extensions in our Army training and naval an increase of 10% over last year.
support businesses and involvement with the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA programme, further the This has been my first full year as chairman and strategic objective of growing our market share as a I continue to be encouraged and impressed by the leading Uk defence support services company.
performance of the group, the professionalism and commitment of our employees and the positive culture In the US, VT Services has expanded our customer base fostered throughout the business.
As we continue to and capabilities into new areas.
We have strengthened grow, become a larger participant in our existing market the quality of our offering in The Group sectors and move into new fields of expertise, it is the US market through the important that we retain this culture.
acquisition of Milcom Systems continues to make Corporation.
This acquisition The year has seen significant successes in both our good progress also contributes significantly support services and shipbuilding businesses.
Within to our strategic objective of and has reached our VT Support Services division, the full integration of growing a sizeable service the former Lex businesses has extended our capability in another milestone business in the US.
the provision of critical asset availability.
Complementing by achieving Group our existing capability in ships and aircraft, the substantial VT Communications continues number of military vehicles now managed by VT to build on core contracts Revenue of more consolidates our position and directly reflects the with existing customers in than 1 billion for requirements of the governments Defence Industrial the Defence and Security Strategy DIS.
sector and is now investing the first time Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 Chairmans Statement VT Communications Jon Wright with the atomic clocks that now deliver the Uks time signal see p14 significantly in new technology in the Broadcast sector Simon played a key role in the development of our to ensure that changing and increasingly sophisticated support services businesses, which now account for requirements can be met.
over 80 per cent of turnover and we extend our best wishes for his retirement.
We have achieved notable success on two Building Schools for the Future BSF programmes following Again, at the time of writing this report, we are in contract signature with the London Borough of the process of appointing a Finance Director.
In the Greenwich and selection as Preferred Bidder in the meantime, Chris Cundy, Group Commercial Director London Borough of Lewisham.
These are extremely is fulfilling the role of Finance and Commercial Director.
important programmes for our Education and Skills Chris was previously Finance Director of the company business and strengthen our position in this sector.
VT Shipbuilding has secured the Uks first naval export During the year, John Davies, Managing Director orders for nearly ten years.
In January we signed a VT Support Services, and Doug Umbers, Managing contract with the Government of Oman for three Ocean Director VT Communications, became members of Patrol Vessels and since the year end, in April 2007, the VT Group Executive Committee, reporting to the we secured a contract from the Government of Trinidad Chief Executive, further strengthening the top level of and Tobago for three Offshore Patrol Vessels OPVs.
management of our support services activities.
These contracts, together with the ongoing work on the Continuing success can only be achieved through the Type 45 destroyer programme and anticipated people who work in our business.
Earlier I mentioned the workshare on the Aircraft Carrier CVF project, strong VT culture and the importance of retaining this and will ensure that shipbuilding remains a strong and we can only do so by demonstrating our commitment growing business for VT. to our employees.
This year we have made a significant We have also decided to exit from our low margin investment in initiatives such as Talent Management and commercial boat building activities: this has resulted in a Coaching, with the aim of ensuring that employees are 6m non-recurring charge, but also released 20 acres of given the development and support they need in their land for sale within the next 2 year period.
roles, enabling them to continue to focus on performance and deliver quality services to our customers.
During the year, we announced that we are in discussions with BAE Systems regarding the formation of a joint venture With the increasing breadth and depth of our support combining our respective shipbuilding and naval support services businesses, strong trading conditions in our businesses.
At the time of writing this report, these talks shipbuilding business and a group order book standing at continue to make good progress.
3.7bn, providing excellent visibility of earnings, the board remains confident for the current year and beyond.
In March, Simon Tarrant retired from the board after more than 30 years working for the group.
Simon joined the board in September 1999 with responsibility for VTs support services businesses and latterly took on a wider group strategy role with continuing responsibility for VT Defence and VT Communications.
