The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement: It is again pleasing to report continued progress in our objective to improve significantly the operational and financial performance of the Group.
In 2007, we delivered our best ever revenue and operating profit while substantially enhancing future prospects for the Group.
Financial highlights In 2007, the Weir Group enjoyed its best operating year in company history delivering record sales, earnings and cash flow generation.
Our acquisition of Weir SPM within the Engineering Products Division, the improved operational returns from our Engineering Services Division and the strength of the oil & gas, mining and power markets all contributed to this very strong result.
Group revenue from continuing operations increased 22% to 1.1bn 2006: 870.4m driven by a partial year contribution from Weir SPM and stronger performances across all divisions.
Operating profit from continuing operations, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, at 122.1m was 57% above the 2006 level of 77.7m.
Group subsidiaries contributed 118.7m 2006: 75.3m and our joint ventures 3.4m against 2.4m last year.
Operating margins, excluding joint ventures, increased to 11.2% against 8.7% last year.
As a result of this strong performance, Group pre-tax profit from continuing operations, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, was up The positive market conditions that we 56% to 120.2m 2006: 77.1m.
experienced in 2007 are expected to remain With an effective tax rate of 28% on attributable profit for continuing operations, earnings per share before intangibles amortisation and throughout 2008 and we anticipate that the exceptional items, amounted to 41.4p 2006: 27.8p.
acquisition of Weir SPM and CH Warman, Profit for the period before exceptional items of 11.8m was recognised in coupled with further operational developments, respect of our discontinued operations and exceptional gains of 80.9m were recognised in relation to disposals during the year.
This reflects will deliver a good level of progress in 2008. a 26.0m gain on the sale of the Weir Pumps Glasgow operations and a 54.9m gain on the disposal of the Groups interest in Devonport Management Limited.
Operating cash flow from continuing operations improved significantly to 151.8m 2006: 111.0m as a result of both increased profitability and the success of managements focus on improving working capital.
The year ended with net debt of 171.3m compared with 7.1m in 2006, reflecting the continued strong cash generation and the second half acquisition of Weir SPM.
The Groups exposure has been reduced to its pension fund obligations through the purchase of an insurance policy from Legal & General Assurance Society to secure the current pensioners liabilities of the main UK plan and a similar process was also undertaken in Canada.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.35p per share making a total distribution for the year of 16.5p 2006: 14.5p, a 14% increase on 2006 and 25% over the last two years.
2 Chairmans Statement Strategy & structure Two of managements key priorities for 2008 are to integrate CH Warman successfully and to deliver the early benefits from the Groups acquisition It is particularly rewarding to report a further year of successful execution of SPM.
In addition, we will continue to accelerate the execution of the of our programme to improve significantly the operational performance Weir Production System which helped to underpin the significant and financial returns of the Group.
The achievements are evident in our improvement in the Groups performance during the year.
Improved 2007 results: a realigned portfolio of businesses, improved operational working capital, market share gains and enhanced customer relationships performance and success in our endeavours to add high quality businesses remain an important area of focus.
In the year, we achieved further significant growth in While the Groups organic opportunities are excellent, our strong cash revenue and operating profit and achieved our best operating year ever.
generation and healthy balance sheet provide us with the flexibility to The Engineering Products Division produced substantially improved pursue the full range of options for future growth.
results in 2007 and benefited from its portfolio realignment to the higher growth oil, power and mining markets which represented more than 80% of revenue during the year.
The gains from our investments in Lean The Board Manufacturing and continuing geographic expansion were also clearly Christopher Clarke has confirmed his intention to retire from the Board evident in this years results with these initiatives contributing significantly at the end of 2008 following nine years of valued service to the Group.
In preparation for this change, John Mogford has been appointed a Non In May of 2007, the Group announced the sale of its Weir Pumps Glasgow Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2008.
John is currently a group operations for a cash consideration of 45.5m.
The business represented vice president of BP PLC.
He has been with BP for 30 years, initially in their less than 8% of Group revenue and a smaller percentage of profit and its exploration division and progressively rising to his current role as executive sale was consistent with our stated intention to exit lower margin activities vice president - safety and operations and chief operating officer refining.
where the Group had limited opportunity to lead.
During his tenure, John has held numerous positions in every area of BP operations from gas and renewables to upstream and downstream oil.
In June, the Group announced its largest ever acquisition SPM Flow 1 Control Inc. for a cash consideration of 328m $653m.
Weir SPM is a Texas based supplier of pumps and flow equipment to the upstream Corporate governance oil & gas market.
The business is now fully integrated and plans are well progressed to improve operational performance and extend its geographic The Boards governance framework is underpinned by clearly defined reach using Weirs global footprint.
strategies and strong vision and values which combine to create shareholder value through the effective use of our resources.
An internal In August, the Group acquired Weir Multiflo, a small dewatering company audit function complements our robust external and peer group audits in Australia, with the objective of extending the portfolio of offerings to and self-certification programmes.
The business was integrated successfully and plans are in place to extend its reach to the wider Minerals markets.
I remain confident that we have the culture and required processes within the Weir Group to safeguard the interests of all of our stakeholders.
Ethical In December, the Group announced the acquisition of CH Warman, a conduct is a vital part of the Weir Group culture and a non negotiable 2 South African based company, for a consideration of 113m $231m.
expectation of every Weir employee.
It is supported by our code of conduct, The acquisition was subject to South African merger approval which was independent Board of Directors and clear statement of company values.
This acquisition provides the Group with a platform in the strategically important sub-Saharan mining market.
Our immediate objectives are to improve the respective performance of both People the local Weir and CH Warman businesses to provide a solid foundation for future integration and growth.
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank employees throughout our company for their commitment, tireless energy and focus during 2007.
The benefits of the 2006 restructuring of our Engineering Services Division We will be looking for the same ambition in 2008 as we continue to were evident in the Groups 2007 results.
We enter 2008 with fewer develop our markets, improve productivity and forge new and stronger businesses, improved performance and greater focus on our core end customer relationships.
The division remains well positioned to introduce Weir SPM products across its global network throughout the coming year.
In June, we announced the sale of our 24.5% interest in Devonport Prospects Management Limited for a consideration of 85.7m.
The disposal reduces We are confident of continued progress in 2008.
The Groups focus our exposure to the UK defence industry and opens up resources to on the longer cycle markets, commitment to enhanced operational develop in the sectors which will underpin the Groups future growth.
performance and ability to invest in new, exciting prospects provide a The outlook for defence markets particularly in Australia and Canada, strong platform to support future growth.
By staying on track, we move which are key markets for Weir defence products, remains encouraging forward with confidence that we can achieve even greater results in the and the decommissioning activities in the UK nuclear market provide a years to come.
The shipbuilding market is fully loaded and this Finally, I want to thank our shareholders who continue to demonstrate will limit Weir LGEs future order book.
Profitability in 2008 will be tied to belief in the potential of the Group.
I remain convinced that the Weir Group delivery of orders already secured and should provide the gas business has the right strategy and depth of expertise to deliver increasing returns.
with broadly equivalent results in the year ahead.
1 Using a US$ exchange rate of 1.99 as at 19 June 2007.
2 Using a US$ exchange rate of 2.05 as at 3 December 2007.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman 11 March 2008 3
