CHairmaNS STaTEmENT fOCUSEd ON SHarEHOLdEr vaLUE This year, WH Smith PLCs first as a Group focused solely on retail, saw further progress in both our High Street and Travel divisions.
We continued to concentrate on creating shareholder value by improving our profitability and customer offering.
The Group is now better balanced, with value more evenly split between the two businesses and key trading periods spread throughout the year, with a summer peak for our Travel business and a Christmas peak for High Street.
It is now three years since we embarked on our turnaround plan and we are pleased to have delivered a 600m improvement in shareholder return during that time.
Although Group revenues were down 3 per cent at 1.3bn, Group profit before tax and exceptional items was 29 per cent ahead of last year at 66m.
This is a very good result, particularly in light of continued competitive trading in our markets during 2006 07.
This strong performance has led the Board to recommend a final dividend of 8.1p, demonstrating its confidence in the outlook for the business.
In High Street, our staff made significant progress in The Group is now better balanced, the delivery of our plan.
Margins were up, reflecting our strategy of rebalancing the mix of our business with value more evenly split towards our core categories, together with successful cost control.
Our Travel staff also worked hard to drive between the two businesses growth, with the expansion of the division into a new and key trading periods spread channel: the motorway service area market.
The focus for our High Street business remains throughout the year.
unchanged: we aim to improve gross margins by building authority in our core categories, manage rObErT WaLkEr, CHairmaN the mix of products better, and keep a tight control of costs.
This approach continues to bear fruit, 1 enabling us to improve profitability by 5 per cent, despite sales falling in a challenging market.
As part of our commitment to strengthening our authority in the core categories of Stationery, Books and News and Impulse, we have an active programme of category reviews which is helping to improve our High Street customer offer.
This activity is particularly effective in Stationery, with encouraging customer reaction to the revised ranges in areas such as pens, Christmas seasonal items and PC consumables.
A wide range of innovative offers and promotions, especially in News, Magazines and Books, ensures that we are giving customers better value.
Following a successful trial of Post Office franchises in six WHSmith stores, in April we announced an agreement with Post Office Limited to open Post Offices within 71 WHSmith High Street stores in addition to the six trial stores.
This commitment secures the future of main Post Office services in these towns, meaning local people will retain access to the full range of more than 170 Post Office services from a convenient location in the heart of their community.
We believe the partnership is good news for both Post Office and WHSmith customers.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 There is an excellent fit between these two well-known the excellent work teams in our stores and head office high street brands and the complementary products do in their local communities, working with local and services will enhance our own customer offering.
schools, charities and other community groups.
Awards went to 20 teams across the UK who have all set a great Our Travel business turned in another solid performance, example by building strong links with local good causes.
1 with sales and profit growth of 6 per cent and 16 per cent respectively.
We continue to improve promotions and We are working hard to reduce the environmental impact displays, for example by extending our books charts to of our business.
New carrier bag designs introduced help time-pressed travellers.
Following the introduction in 2006 have already delivered a 28 per cent reduction of tighter airport security measures last year, our in the amount of plastic used.
We are now taking this customers are spending more time airside than landside.
a step further: when a customer chooses not to take We responded quickly to this trend, adjusting staffing a carrier bag, we make a donation to the Woodland levels and ranges and improving fixtures to increase Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
space airside, ensuring the right products are available Our target is to fund the planting of 10,000 trees by in the right place.
Travel also grew in new areas, most notably with the The annual Business in the Communitys Corporate rollout of our motorway services offer.
We have established Responsibility Index provides an opportunity for us to a strong presence in this new channel, bringing WHSmith benchmark our corporate responsibility performance products direct to the motorist for the first time.
Following against other leading UK companies.
We were delighted successful trials, we opened WHSmith franchises in to improve our performance for the fourth successive 50 Moto and 35 Welcome Break locations and are now year, achieving a Gold ranking.
We remain committed developing further opportunities in this market.
to managing our impact on society and the environment, while exploring ways in which corporate responsibility Our staff can justly be proud of these results.
Over the can enhance our business performance.
past three years their hard work, loyalty and determination 2 have increased WHSmiths Group profit by 235 per cent This year sees a change to the WH Smith PLC Board from 20m to 67m.
with MT Rainey retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, when she will have served two three-year terms as a Non-Executive Director.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank her for her contribution, commitment and service to the Company during the past It is now three years since we six years and wish her well in the future.
embarked on our turnaround Looking ahead, we expect the Christmas season to be very competitive, and we have planned accordingly.
I am plan and we are pleased to have confident we will make good progress in implementing the initiatives we have planned to deliver further delivered a 600m improvement in shareholder value.
Thank you for your support.
shareholder return during that time.
robert Walker Chairman, WH Smith PLC 11 October 2007 Our people are crucial to the success of our business and we work hard to make sure that all employees, whether in head office, stores or distribution centres, have access to the tools they need to develop their careers.
In stores, we have established programmes to develop potential supervisors, store managers and area or district managers.
Around 100 delegates attended the store manager development programme this year, with more than two thirds receiving promotion upon completion of the course.
In head office, highpotential employees are given the opportunity to take part in our Fast Track Academy programme, which prepares them for future senior management roles.
1 Profit from trading operations is defined as operating profit after directly We are also proud of our continuing efforts to support attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and the communities in which we operate.
This year saw the before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation.
2 second WHSmith Community Awards, which recognise Group operating profit before exceptional items.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 3
