Chairmans Statement William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement During 2007, we continued to make significant appointed to the Board as Group Director, 2007 has been a challenging year for progress in developing our international Operations with responsibility for all of the the Group and the bookmaking businesses in Spain and Italy in conjunction Groups UK based operations and supporting industry as a whole.
At the start of with our joint venture partner Codere.
In the marketing and IT functions.
These moves Madrid region, we expect to be trading in reflect the substantial increase in size and the year, we estimated that we had around 70 outlets in the first year of operations complexity of William Hill and the increasing to make an incremental 16m profit once the authorities grant a licence there, importance of regulatory issues, both in the just to match 2006s profit which is expected imminently.
These include UK, as a result of the establishment of the performance due to the full year dedicated LBOs as well as outlets in third party Gambling Commission, and internationally.
In effects of the imposition of premises.
In the Basque region, we have been June, David Harding announced his intention Amusement Machine Licence Duty successful in obtaining one of the three to step down as Chief Executive and he licences granted there and we expect to have subsequently left the Group at the end of AMLD and the absence of a major over 60 units trading in that jurisdiction in September.
David joined as Chief Executive in football tournament.
In Italy where we have secured 55 2000 and I would like to thank him for his the Group, helped by an extra concessions, we have been busy searching for significant contribution in transforming William weeks trading in 2007 compared to and obtaining prime locations and fitting out Hill from private ownership to the well 2006, has produced a profit before outlets working towards having all these units established public company it is today.
On finance charges and exceptional trading by September 2008.
Our joint venture 21 February 2008, the Board announced the licensed Italian internet site commenced appointment of Ralph Topping as Chief items that was only 5.5m lower trading in early February.
We have approached Executive, following a thorough search process than last year and earnings per share these investments in a cautious manner and for Davids successor.
Ralphs 35 years of excluding exceptional items actually while we have allocated sufficient capital to industry experience and deep knowledge of increased by 4%, although this ensure that we fully explore the possibilities, the business will allow him to build on the largely reflected one-off tax the overall pace of any further expansion will Groups successes and drive the business movements.
The Board is proposing be dictated by the results of our initial forward.
to increase total dividends for the investment and our monitoring of the overall The Board is proposing a final dividend of 15.5 market opportunity.
year by 7%, in line with the Groups pence per share which combined with the 2007 has also been a busy period in the field interim dividend of 7.75 pence per share policy of returning surplus capital via of regulation.
The 2005 Gambling Act finally results in total dividends for the year of 23.25 dividends and share buybacks.
became enforceable in September 2007 and pence per share, a 7% increase on the total The Retail business responded well to the we welcome the establishment of a robust dividends paid in the comparable period.
In challenges of the year and delivered 9% gross regulatory regime for gambling in Great addition, during 2007, the Group has returned win growth 7% excluding the effects of the Britain.
We have engaged fully with the 46.0m of value to shareholders in the form of 53rd week.
This was driven by product Gambling Commission during the year and share buybacks.
innovation, particularly on our gaming look forward to continuing a constructive In the seven weeks to 19 February 2008, the machines, which helped to offset the effects of dialogue with the Commission going forward.
Groups gross win has increased by 4% against the smoking ban and also by the opportunity There have also recently been a number of a strong comparative period.
For the year as a granted by the new gambling regulatory developments in the price we pay to support whole, we remain confident of further growth regime to keep our Licensed Betting Offices the UK horseracing industry.
On 11 January in the Retail business.
The Group remains LBOs open beyond six pm in the winter as 2008, we entered into a five-year contract with focused on cost and is confident that like for well as the summer.
Disciplined cost control Amalgamated Racing Limited trading as Turf like cost growth can continue to be contained ensured that this top-line increase was TV, for the provision of live coverage of all within the historic range of 4-6%.
However, the translated into profit growth, despite the horse races taking place at those horse-race business will need to absorb incremental costs increased cost resulting from the imposition of courses for which Turf TV has exclusive rights.
associated with the new Turf TV contract and AMLD and keeping the LBOs open longer.
the full year impact of extended winter On 20 February 2008, the Government In contrast the Interactive channel had a opening hours.
announced its intention that the 47th Levy disappointing trading period.
Primarily this was scheme be settled on terms similar to those The performance of the interactive sportsbook as a result of the uncompetitive performance included in the 46th Levy scheme.
We were is expected to continue to be impacted until of the internet sportsbook product due to disappointed with this outcome as we the new ORBIS platform is fully up and running technology problems.
In light of the ongoing believed that bookmakers had presented a towards the end of the year.
technology issues affecting the internet strong case for a reduction in the current terms The development of our International business sportsbook, the Board instigated an to reflect the incremental monies flowing to continues.
Until these businesses reach scale independent review of our bespoke NextGen horseracing via Turf TV.
However, we we would anticipate absorbing some replacement technology programme in welcomed the comments in the operating losses, which in 2008 are expected November 2007.
Following this review the accompanying statement that the Government to be approximately 7-8 million.
Board decided to terminate this programme accepted an argument could be put forward Overall, the Board remains confident about the and to implement an externally developed that bookmakers subscriptions to the new Turf longer-term prospects for the business both in third party technology solution for the TV service constitute a commercially-based the UK and internationally.
This decision resulted in an flow of money to racing.
exceptional non-cash impairment charge in Finally, I would like to thank formally all our There have been a number of changes to the relation to the NextGen technology colleagues for their hard work in 2007 and in Boards composition in 2007.
In May, the Board programme of 20.9m, which is reflected in particular for their help between October and announced that it had appointed Ian Spearing the 2007 results.
Further restructuring charges February when I assumed the position of and Ralph Topping, two of the Groups most of approximately 4m are also expected to be temporary Executive Chairman and wish them experienced senior managers, as executive incurred in 2008.
In the meantime a number of every success for 2008. directors.
Ian Spearing was appointed to the initiatives have been implemented to improve Board as Group Director, Corporate Strategy the performance of this division and we Charles Scott and Business Development with particular remain confident about its longer-term Chairman responsibility for the Groups new international prospects.
ventures in Spain and Italy.
