01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 11 4 07 10:35 am Page 2 2 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Chairmans statement Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE We remain at the early stages of our profit recovery, but I believe that good foundations have been laid as demonstrated by delivering the first stage of our Optimisation Plan and I am delighted that we welcomed Marc Bolland to the business.
The year under review saw a good demonstration of the On behalf of the Directors I wish to thank all members of sound progress we have made towards our former operating our staff for their skill, dedication and energy throughout standards.
The absorption of the Safeway business was this period.
We have all been extremely busy with numerous completed and we saw solid growth in sales, profit and changes being made in all areas of the business.
be marking the progress made so far in our profit recovery by total payments to staff for profit share and their loyalty Profit before tax and exceptional items was 369m compared of 43m.
A major move to bring all our administration with 62m last year.
This included 39m of property profits, functions into a new head office was completed smoothly compared with 8m last year.
There were no exceptional and on schedule.
items compared with costs of 374m last year when we incurred Safeway integration and conversion costs.
The staff also found energy and enthusiasm to raise a The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.375p per total of 1.6m for the Breast Cancer Campaign, our chosen share, to bring the total for the year to 4.0p an increase Charity of the Year.
The vote for the charity for the current of 8%.
The dividend is covered 2.3 times by earnings and we year was won by Asthma UK, and I feel sure the joint efforts are pleased to be growing the dividend once again.
of our staff, customers and suppliers will ensure another good year.
It was important during this period to show recovery in profit terms whilst maximising cash generation.
Our net debt It has been a particular personal pleasure to present no fell from 1.15bn to 0.8bn in the year due in no small part to fewer than 128 members of staff with awards to recognise tightening our control in all aspects of the business.
Whilst their 25 years service with the Group.
our future capital investment will increase, I believe this can The Board is very aware of the spotlight that is on food be comfortably accommodated.
retailers with regard to promoting healthy eating and being I was delighted in September to welcome Marc Bolland to environmentally responsible.
We believe that exercising the Group as Chief Executive Officer and I have worked social responsibility is entirely compatible with delivering closely with him since in helping him to learn about our continued profit recovery and we are pleased, this year, unique culture.
He has worked hard, and later in this report to be publishing a corporate social responsibility report he will acquaint you with his reactions and outline his for the first time.
As always, capital investments have been made wherever necessary in order to achieve more efficient operations.
Capital has been invested in stores and our manufacturing 01 Report 2007 01-15. qxp 16 4 07 2:19 pm Page 3 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 3 and distribution facilities.
We are currently running too many distribution miles because of the less than ideal disposition of our depots and this matter is being urgently addressed.
A major investment has been made in modern heavy goods vehicles which is showing good economies in costs per mile on fuel consumption, and reduced carbon emissions.
We will continue to invest in suitable development opportunities and have once again appreciated the great value of our freehold property portfolio.
We are making changes to the management structure to recognise the increased size of the Group and its greater complexity.
In order to motivate management towards improved performance in a highly competitive market, we will be proposing a long-term incentive plan at our AGM in May.
This plan and an associated annual bonus scheme will offer strong incentives for top performances and no rewards for failure.
Board structure is changing as a result of Bob Stott and Marie Melnyk stepping down during the year and the impending departure of David Hutchinson in June.
Jointly the 3 of them have contributed 75 years of really outstanding service to the Group.
I thank them most sincerely for the enormous dedication and effort which they have always demonstrated and say what a pleasure it has been to work Hilmore House is the new home to more than 1,400 headquarters with them.
We were delighted to confirm Martyn Jones staff, who were previously dispersed over a number of locations.
The search for a new A great working environment, it continues the Groups long association with the city of Bradford.
Deputy Chairman continues and good progress is being made.
The Competition Commission enquiry into the Grocery Industry continues and our latest information suggests the outcome is likely to be in October or November.
We have cooperated fully with all the requests for information.
We believe that the final outcome should favour us as we are the smallest of the big companies and as local competition would appear to be the main criterion, we believe we should see opportunities in important locations where we are not currently represented.
The task for the coming years is to modernise certain aspects of our business but equally it is important to remember the many areas of our operations which made us outstandingly successful in our formative years.
We are now firmly on the road to further improvement and I view the future with optimism.
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE Chairman
