WO40009 R&A 01-41 12 10 07 10:57 Page 04 Chairmans statement PROGRESS MADE IN A CHALLENGING YEAR With our size and scale we can continue to invest and take advantage of the growth opportunities that the European and North American construction markets will provide in the future.
Chairman John Whybrow WO40009 R&A 01-41 12 10 07 10:57 Page 05 2007 has been a particularly challenging period for the Group.
Dividend In a year when we have achieved good performance across In September 2006, the Group raised 646 million after costs from European operations generally, we have also had to contend he placement of new shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of its issued t with a very difficult market for new housing in the US.
Equally, share capital, in order to provide funding headroom for bolt-on we recorded our highest spend ever on acquisitions of 1,718 million acquisitions and capital expenditure for expansion.
The impact which included the purchase of DT Group in the Nordic region.
of this share issue and the lower profitability due to the difficult Overall, revenue ended up 14.6 per cent with trading profit down US housing market has caused our earnings per share before 0.6 per cent.
amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles to fall 11.2 per cent to 87.80 pence.
However, the Board is confident of the Groups The new housing market in the US has seen its biggest fall in more future prospects and it is, therefore, recommending a final dividend than 15 years.
As a result, it was necessary to significantly reduce of 21.55 pence, which represents a total dividend for the year of our cost base in Stock Building Supply Stock which is the 32.40 pence.
This is an increase of 10.2 per cent over the total Groups business most exposed to the new housing market in dividend paid last year.
the US, closing a number of branches, reducing employee numbers and tightly controlling overheads.
However, the Board The Board continues to believe that the European and North American Fenton Hord, who was responsible for the Groups US building construction markets, including new housing in the US, will provide materials business, retired from the Board on 31 July 2007 after good opportunities for growth in the future.
Ensuring that we have 20 years with the Group, including seven years as a Board member.
the appropriate organisation to respond to customers changing The Group has also announced that Robert Walker, a Non Executive needs and yet be efficient in the way we do business continues to Director since 1998, will leave the Board on 31 October 2007. be a priority.
To both Fenton and Robert, I wish to extend the Boards sincere thanks and appreciation for their significant contributions to the With this in mind, Chip Hornsby, in his first year as Group Chief Group and wish them both well for the future.
Executive, has created a number of new roles, started new initiatives and agreed new targets with the Board: among which I also wish to thank all of our customers, suppliers, investors and are to improve cash flow along with generating a 7 per cent trading each of our 78,948 employees for their support not just over the margin by the year ending 31 July 2011.
In the pages that follow, last year, but over many years.
you can read more about these initiatives, all of which are designed to ensure that Wolseley benefits from being a genuinely international The Board looks ahead with confidence.
We have a sound strategy company and develops into a truly world class Group.
with a proven track record of growth sustained over many years and we operate in markets that are extremely fragmented.
We are The size and scale of our operations mean that we can continue confident that the initiatives and investments that Chip and his to invest in people, infrastructure and technology.
Our aim is to team are undertaking today will drive Wolseley to new and even source products at the right price from our suppliers and deliver greater achievements in the future.
these to our customers in the most effective manner possible.
In support of this, we continue to expand our capabilities in areas such as procurement, supply chain and IT to support our existing businesses and to maximise the value that we obtain from acquisitions going forward.
John W Whybrow Chairman Chairmans statement 05 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
