Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett Gerald Corbett The year was difficult for Woolworths Group.
Profits fell on the back of weak sales in Retail although significant advances were made within our multichannel business.
Within EUK, the acquisitions of THE and Bertram together with winning the contract to supply Virgin Retail places the business on a stronger footing.
Our 40 per cent owned publishing joint venture with BBC Worldwide, 2entertain, continues to do well.
Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional items fell from 43.7 million to 7.3 million.
Adjusted profit which is before tax, exceptional items, adjustment for fixed rental uplifts and amortisation of certain intangible assets fell from 57.7 million to 21.8 million.
Basic earnings per share improved from 0.7 pence to 0.9 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share, which removes the effect of exceptional items, the adjustment for fixed rental uplifts and amortisation of certain intangible assets fell from 2.8 pence to 1.2 pence.
Average net debt was 113 million, an increase of 76 million on the previous year largely reflecting the acquisition of THE and the completion of the 10 10 and multichannel investment programmes.
In our retail business the rapid decline in the value of CD and DVD markets resulting from price deflation and the increase in digital downloading made a profit decline inevitable.
This was compounded by the cost of completing the refit programme, Much has changed during my the cost of the investment in multichannel retailing and stock six years at the Woolworths clearance activity in the first half, none of which should recur this year.
Gross margins in the year improved by 105 basis points and Group.
I am pleased with the stock was kept tightly under control, but a sales decline of 5.5 per business we have built in the cent and the above factors pushed our Retail operation into an adjusted loss of 12.9 million.
Publishing and Wholesaling side, but Woolworths Retails recent performance has been disappointing.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement 2 Chairmans Statement Gerald Corbett This performance is clearly not acceptable.
The plan for this year We have maintained the final dividend which gives a full year is to return the division to profit by keeping costs under tight dividend of 1.77 pence per share, an increase of 1.1 per cent control, improving the sales performance with a further expansion on last year.
of our multichannel capability and the launch of further Big Red Books the Woolworths catalogue during the year.
I have decided to step down as Chairman on completion of my second three-year term at this years AGM on 6 June.
A new brand called Worth It of really competitive entry price Richard North, who joined our Board in October, will take over point items will be launched across the chain to improve footfall as Chairman from that date.
Richard has a wealth of business and value perception.
Better buying and tighter management of experience having served during his career as a Chief Executive the sales mix should result in another year of margin improvement.
for Intercontinental Hotels, Finance Director of Bass plc, Finance It will not be an easy year and we expect a further decline in the Director of the Burton Group and as a non-executive director market for entertainment products.
I am sure he will work well with our Chief Executive, Trevor Bish-Jones and his team.
During the year Tony Page, Third-party sales in our Entertainment Wholesaling and Publishing formerly director of non-foods trading at ASDA, joined us as divisions increased 29.7 per cent to 923.8 million although Managing Director, Commercial & Marketing.
adjusted profits fell by 3.3 million impacted by the change of terms in our business with Tesco which business ceases in April Much has changed during my six years at the Woolworths this year and after a 2.4 million provision in relation to Music Group.
I am obviously pleased with the business we have built Zone, a THE customer which went into administration in on the Wholesaling and Publishing side.
Woolworths retail is a January 2007. challenging business, but although its recent performance has been disappointing I believe the building blocks are in place However, the loss of the Tesco contract, announced last year, for a better result.
will not be as damaging as once feared.
The acquisition of THE and with it the Sainsburys account and the winning of the Virgin I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their support Retail business should more than replace the lost Tesco contract.
and all our colleagues throughout the Group for their hard work and efforts during a difficult year and indeed during The acquisition of Bertram makes the division the leading book my whole period as Chairman.
Books is a stable market and this division can now look forward to a stable and positive future with a good spread of business and a diversified customer base.
These acquisitions and the winning of the Virgin Retail business with the consequential investment in working capital will increase Gerald Corbett the Groups average debt.
All these are profitable investments Chairman which will improve the Groups financing ratios.
27 March 2007 2entertain, our 40 per cent owned joint venture with BBC Worldwide, continues to trade well, contributing a similar level as last year to Group profits.
It is an excellent business with a leading market position benefiting from privileged access to all of the BBCs current and historic video content.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement 3
