CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans statement Ed Wallis I am pleased to report that the Group performed well last year, with revenue up 20%.
RESULTS successful with an increasingly diverse workforce we must I am pleased to report that the Group performed well last continue to encourage excellence and create an environment year, with revenue up 20% and normalised profit before in which all our people can flourish.
This result was driven by substantial I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our growth in the Middle East: good performance from our Design employees throughout the Group for their efforts in the year.
and Engineering Solutions, and Highways and Transportation BOARD OF DIRECTORS segments: and the recovery in the workload of our Rail On 31 December 2006 Christopher Kemball retired as a segment.
The Groups cash performance continues to be non-executive director.
I would like to thank Christopher for strong and we ended the year with net funds of 199.1m.
his valued contribution to the Board over the last four years, The Groups results, however, were adversely impacted by during which time the Group has seen many challenges.
On an exceptional loss of 121.3m 120.1m after tax in relation 13 March 2007 we welcomed Fiona Clutterbuck to the Board to the Metronet Enterprise.
This loss includes an impairment as a non-executive director and on 1 April 2007 she joined write-down which reduces the carrying value of the Groups the Audit Committee.
Fiona heads the financial institutions investment in Metronet to nil.
advisory practice of ABN AMRO.
Our Group HR director On 21 June 2007, Metronet announced its intention to Alun Griffiths also joined the Board on 13 March 2007 invite the Arbiter to conduct an Extraordinary Review on as an executive director.
Metronet BCV in July and on Metronet SSL later in the year.
Negotiations are ongoing with Metronets banks to ensure DIVIDEND that it has adequate funding until the completion of the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.0p, Extraordinary Review.
making the total dividend for the year 20.0p 2006: 16.0p, Atkins is committed to working with Metronet, its banks an increase of 25%.
and other stakeholders to ensure that it can continue through OUTLOOK to the outcome of the Extraordinary Review.
We start the new year in a very good position with work PEOPLE in hand representing 58% of our budgeted revenue 2006: Headcount rose by over 1,900 in the year to nearly 62%.
The demand for our services in our key markets is 17,000 and it is encouraging that our focus on people has strong and we are confident that the Group will continue reduced staff turnover from 14.1% to 13.8%.
We have to achieve further progress in the year ahead.
made significant investment in enhancing our training and development programmes to ensure that our employees can Ed Wallis, chairman continue to develop their careers within the Group.
Staff 26 June 2007 mobility remains a priority to allow the transfer of skills and sharing of resources on significant projects.
To remain WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE SEVEN
