Chairmans Statement OUR BUSINESS MODEL OF DIVERSIFICATION, TOGETHER WITH OUR ABILITY TO BE BOTH FLEXIBLE AND RESILIENT, PoSiTionS uS Well FoR The FuTuRe.
DAVID TURNER Chairman I am very pleased to report that WSP has had another excellent year.
been secured and more than 40% of the work required for 2009 is The outstanding financial results and the successful delivery of our in place.
With the growing pipeline of worldwide projects and our strategic objectives have ensured that our performance is ahead of recent successes in long term UK strategic highway frameworks, market expectations.
our order book has now passed 1 billion and provides a reassuring position to underpin our future performance.
We continue to follow a strategy of diversification, both in terms of regions and skills, and we have completed a series of sensibly priced In view of the financial results and the Boards confidence in the acquisitions during the year which, together with our ongoing organic future of the business, the Directors are proposing a final dividend growth, ensures the Group is strongly positioned for the future.
of 8p per ordinary share making a total for the year of 12p.
This represents an increase of 33% over the previous year.
Financial Performance Corporate Strategy Revenue, including the Groups share of associated companies and joint ventures, has increased to 577.4m 2006: 449.4m, an We have completed the third year of our 5 year Strategic Plan and increase of 28%, of which 7% arises from acquisitions in the year.
The again exceeded the primary financial, operational and  organic growth of 21% confirms the progress the Group tion objectives.
We comfortably exceeded the annual target of 15% has made across broad sectors and geographical reach.
revenue growth and 0.5% profit margin growth and are optimistic of reaching a sustainable profit margin of at least 8%.
Adjusted profit before tax, excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on business combinations and tax on associated undertakings Our acquisition strategy has allowed us to enter new regions, in and joint ventures, was 40.1m 2006: 27.5m, an increase of 46%.
particular Germany and Australia, with expansion into new sectors, The Groups adjusted profit margin increased from 6.8% to 7.6%.
including industrial process engineering in the UK and China, and transportation and bridge inspection in the USA.
The acquisitions Profit before tax was 37.4m 2006: 26.4m, an increase of 42% completed in 2007 have annualised revenues of over 100m and and diluted earnings per share increased from 30.4p to 42.3p, an are integrating well.
We will use our experience to ensure that each improvement of 39%.
new company feels part of the Group and add value by presenting opportunities in new markets and with new clients.
Payments for initial and deferred consideration on acquisitions amounted to more than 43m, net of cash acquired.
However with This year we will be extending our 5 year Strategic Plan, which is the cash flows from trading, coupled with good working capital serving us so well, to ensure that all our stakeholders are very clear management, the Groups net debt only increased from 34.9m to on our medium term objectives.
61.0m, which is comfortably within our overall bank facilities of more than 110m.
Business Review The success in gaining market share has led to another record order book which, at the year end, stood at 940m 2006: 700m.
Within During the year many operations strengthened their market positions this amount, approximately 67% of our revenue target for 2008 has and this has contributed to our excellent overall performance.
2 WSP Annual Report 2007 Our acquisition strategy has allowed us to enter new regions, in particular Germany and Australia Our Property division has shown further good progress, expanding rail infrastructure, particularly in our principal operations in the UK operations in many geographic regions and across all significant and Sweden, will continue at similar expenditure levels to the past.
The continued improvement primarily arose through operational efficiency and, with the longevity of our order book, I am We are delighted to have won a major highway term contract with confident of our ongoing business performance.
Our reliance on any Northampton County Council in 50% joint venture with May Gurney, one particular sector or activity is low, which ensures we are able to which will provide us with significant revenue of approximately mitigate the risk of reduced economic activity in any specific region.
160m for at least the next 8 years.
The existing UK Area 12 framework has been extended until September 2009 and we will be Whilst the credit crunch in banking markets has impacted on some re-bidding for this project in the current year.
In Sweden we have commercial developments in the UK and the USA, we remain recently been appointed to design the Stockholm City Line, a major busy on prime projects such as the Shard of Glass, Europes tallest rail and tunnel link in the capital, and also the conceptual design for building, which recently completed its funding programme and the the Stockholm Bypass.
new Canon Headquarters in Long Island, New York.
The entirety of our corporate and commercial business in the UK and the USA The opportunities in the Environment and Energy sectors continue represents approximately 8% of our total annual revenue and many to grow and, as they are driven to a large extent by legislation and of the projects we are currently working on have a number of years the sustainability agenda, they appear relatively protected from wider of work left remaining such as at the three towers at Ground Zero in economic influences.
With our significant resource of more than New York.
We are therefore mindful of macro economic conditions 1,100 staff worldwide, coupled with extensive geographical reach, we in managing the business but are also aware of the very significant are very well placed to continue to drive this business forward.
amount of high quality long term contracted work which must be delivered within our diverse portfolio.
Sustainability and energy considerations, from green buildings to sustainability master planning, are fundamentals of our business.
In In the Middle East we are exceptionally busy and have increased 2007, an important commission was received from architects Foster our staff resources to more than 600.
It is particularly pleasing to & Partners to develop the sustainable infrastructure strategies for note the number and scale of some of the multi-disciplinary projects the detailed master-plan of Masdar City in Abu Dhabi, a new 6 million we have won with construction values in excess of $1 billion.
With square metre sustainable city designed to the One Planet Living increased diversification, more than one third of our work is now definition for zero carbon and zero waste.
We continue to focus on increasing our global clients and cross We have made good progress in new regions such as Russia, India selling our services.
This is an important operational part of our and Eastern Europe, particularly Romania, where we have reinforced Strategic Plan which enables the Group to grow market share and management support and succeeded in winning a number of large reduce exposure to external economic factors.
Good progress has projects with regular clients such as Hines and DLF.
been made during the year, as illustrated by our work in a number of countries for multi-national blue chip clients such as Barclays Bank, Our Transport & Infrastructure division, including joint ventures the Royal Bank of Scotland and Blackstone Group.
and associates, represents around 30% of our annual revenues and comprises many long term contracts and framework agreements.
We therefore have high visibility of our workload for 2008 and 2009 and are confident that public sector commitment to maintaining road and WSP Annual Report 2007 3 WSP Transport & Infrastructure provides design engineering for roads, rail, bridges, marine, tunnels and utility services.
People WSP prides itself on its valued employees whose primary focus is always to provide a great professional service whilst building long We now employ more than 9,400 staff in over 35 countries which standing relationships with our clients.
We are a Group of many positions the Group as a recognised worldwide consultant.
different cultures with a common set of values, committed to a clearly defined strategy and vision.
The strong financial results and ongoing delivery of our Strategic Plan are entirely due to the hard work, technical expertise, commitment and loyalty of our directors and staff.
I compliment them all on their performance and sincerely thank them for their hard work which helps ensure the strong position for the Group going forward.
outlook We are recognised as a major employer in our field, which is Despite challenging economic indicators, we remain confident of our reflected in our steady retention rates and our successful recruitment future performance.
All of our regions and most markets and sectors to meet our operational needs.
In addition to investing in human are currently very active however we are vigilant in the management resource support, we have improved our graduate recruitment of our flexible resource to ensure we can respond to address any schemes worldwide, continued to develop internal learning through change should it be necessary.
WSP University, increased the opportunity for staff transfers to different regions and invested in talent management and mature I consider that our diverse range of regional and sector activity, career development programmes.
together with the increasingly international project footprint, provides the Group with flexibility and resilience thereby continuing We will ensure that all those staff who have recently joined the to deliver a sustainable strong performance and avoiding material Group with acquired companies, are properly integrated, valued and cyclical change.
For the last five years WSPs strategy has been to introduced to the significant opportunities offered to those who ensure that the Group is not reliant on any individual client, sector work for the Group.
With our international reach and as work or territory and we have a balanced diverse portfolio of work across balance changes, we are able to facilitate office transfers to those many regions.
members of staff who wish to work in the international market.
Project design delivery is very flexible, and with a mobile workforce, We work in both the private and public sectors in all our principal we are able to adjust to macro operational and economic drivers regions albeit that the ratio will vary depending upon the country.
whilst at the same time providing career development opportunities.
For example, in the UK 40% of our business is in the public sector whilst this increases to 55% in Sweden.
As we provide an increasing level of advice surrounding the sustainability agenda to our clients, we must simultaneously ensure Our improving profit margins demonstrate that we have made good that our own policies, behaviours and culture reflect an attitude of progress in driving operational efficiency and staff utilisation whilst which all our stakeholders are proud.
We are implementing a series improving client service across the Group yet we know there is still of policies to ensure our business practices and our staff focus on the more to do.
issues that we can influence.
4 WSP Annual Report 2007 We are delighted that to date we have been able to consistently meet the targets of our well publicised Strategic Plan and the time is right to review and extend our strategy beyond 2009.
Our global presence on the world map is relatively new in a number of regions, as is our scale and reputation, and many opportunities are arising in these new markets which will be both significant and exciting for the Group and its employees.
Acquisitions have been an important part of the development of the Group and we will continue to consider sensibly priced targets to further expand our services.
We recognise the importance of successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2007 and our focus is on working to achieve this in order to deliver their inherent value.
Our business model of diversification, together with our ability to be both flexible and resilient, positions us well for the future.
We will continue to improve operational efficiency and with our strong secured order book and clear visibility over 2008 and 2009 I am confident that the Group will continue to deliver increased revenue and profits in the year ahead.
David Turner Chairman 7 March 2008 WSP is well known for delivering trophy buildings for many of the worlds largest institutions and for working with the worlds major architects.
