XCHANGING PLC Chairmans statement I am delighted to present to you Xchangings first Annual Report and Accounts as a public company.
It has been an exciting year and we have delivered a good set of results.
The basis of success had a number of other significant wins with Founded in 1999 by David Andrews, our blue-chip customers.
Chief Executive Officer, Xchanging has needed four vital components for our success to date: Dividend Leadership The Board recommends the payment of a Commitment and enthusiasm dividend of 2.0 pence per share payable on A valid business model 30 May 2008 to all shareholders on the share Supportive long-term financial backers register at the record date 2 May 2008.
John Robins Chairman In David, we have a proven leader, who has Board changes chosen his team with great care.
From the Friedrich Carl Janssen retired from the early beginnings to the current over 4,250 Xchanging Board in December 2007.
He has employees, our people have demonstrated been an important member of the Board and commitment and enthusiasm for the his European market and German banking Xchanging Way and our customers have knowledge has been invaluable.
supported the original business model.
We are also profoundly grateful to General John Bramley will be retiring from the Board at Atlantic LLC, our original investors, for their the AGM in May 2008.
He worked closely with support, advice and encouragement.
David Andrews in the formation of Xchanging.
David Hodgson will also be retiring from the Our performance in 2007 Board at the AGM.
We wish them both well for In 2007, revenues increased 19.0% to the future and thank them for their significant 468.2 million.
Adjusted operating profit contributions over their years on the Board.
attributable to Xchanging XEBIT increased 42.5% to 31.6 million and XEBIT margin I will also be stepping down from the Board increased to 6.8%.
Cash generated from at the next AGM.
I will handover the operations increased by 68.9% to 49.7 million.
Chairmanship to Nigel Rich, our current Deputy Chairman, who brings a wealth of public In early 2007, we bought out BAE Systems company and international experience.
The minority holdings in our procurement and HR Company will take the opportunity during 2008 services Enterprise Partnerships for 57 million.
to add further new independent directors.
We successfully listed on the London Stock I would like to thank David, the Board, the Exchange in April at 240p, the top of the management team and the Xchanging quoted price range, and raised 75 million of employees for a most enjoyable nine years as primary capital.
In June, we joined the FTSE Chairman.
May I wish Xchanging the very best 250 and at the year end our share price was success in the next stage of its journey as a 280p, an increase of 17% since listing.
Our most significant sales success this year was the signing of the Groups seventh Enterprise Partnership EP, a retail investment account management partnership with Allianz John Robins Global Investors in Germany.
We have also Chairman, Xchanging plc Footnotes XEBIT represents the adjusted operating profit attributable to equity holders of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and certain non-cash items, which comprise share-based payment charges of 0.5m 2006: 0.5m and amortisation of intangible assets previously unrecognised by acquired entities.
A detailed reconciliation to statutory operating profit is provided on page 24.
