Babcock International Group PLC 02 Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans statement The year ending March 2007 continued The Board is confident however, the excellent progress of recent years that in addition to the opportunities with profit before tax, before amortisation with DML, there is considerable scope of acquired intangibles and exceptional for further earnings enhancement as items, increased by 40% following a result of organic growth, and our the 25% increase in the previous year.
forward order book before the DML The Directors are recommending a final deal was 2.4 billion.
dividend of 5.65p per share giving a total Our strong track record in acquiring dividend for the year of 8.05p per share, and integrating businesses has been k an increase of 34% on the previous maintained, and Alstec, which was year: this increase reects the increased acquired in May 2006, contributed With a highly visible order earnings, our confidence for Babcocks handsomely to Babcocks profits.
book, Babcock is well placed future prospects and our previously The Alstec acquisition and our declared policy on dividend cover.
purchase of a stake in International to deliver strong growth in The share price continued to improve Nuclear Solutions plc increases our both revenue, earnings and during the year and reached 400p at the presence in the eld of nuclear support shareholder value.
At close of business services and offers the basis for on the date our accounts were approved further growth within an expanding the price stood at 552p per share.
per share represents an out-performance Babcocks financial position is over five years of 285% compared to the strong with net debt at 31 March 2007 FTSE all share index excluding investment of 73.7 million, after 52.5 million trusts.
100 invested in Babcock on the invested in acquisitions, reecting the 31 March 2002 would have been worth high conversion of profit to cash ratios.
427 on the 31 March 2007, compared The success of a company is to 151 had it been invested in that index.
dependent on the skills and dedication We have reached agreement with the of its workforce, particularly in a service shareholders of Devonport Management business which Babcock has become Limited DML to acquire the entire share over the last five years, and I would like capital of DML for 350 million.
The deal, to thank all our employees for their efforts which is subject to Babcock shareholders and support.
A special mention should approval, is expected to be earnings be made, however, for the hard work and enhancing in the first full financial year skills of the senior management team of ownership.
Details of the proposals will in securing DML, and it is also testimony be contained in the Shareholders circular to the reputation the company has for the EGM.
established with its largest customer.
The Board believes that a The Board is confident of Babcocks combination of DML, HMNB Clyde, which prospects and is convinced that the we currently manage, and Rosyth Royal Group is well placed to continue to Dockyard is in line with the consolidation develop and grow.
As a consequence, of the naval industry, as proposed in the the underlying value of Babcock to its Ministry of Defences Defence Industrial shareholders should continue to increase.
Strategy, and can achieve significant cost savings.
