qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 03 Chairmans statement Heres to an excellent team Bob Scott Chairman I am pleased to welcome you to the Yell Group plc Annual In November we announced an interim dividend of 5.7 pence per and Corporate Responsibility Reports for the financial year share.
I am pleased to announce that the Board is recommending ended 31 March 2007.
It has been a good year financially a final dividend of 11.4 pence per share.
This will bring the total and operationally for Yell, putting us in a strong position to dividend for the year to 17.1 pence per share, a 12% increase over meet the challenge of increasingly aggressive competition, last year.
With effect from 31 March 2007, Charles Carey resigned from We achieved good results across all areas of our operation.
Charles served Yell with great distinction and we We grew revenues by 28% to 2,075 million and grew adjusted wish him the best in his future endeavours.
Operating cash flow was up 21% to 542 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share I am delighted to welcome Tim Bunting to the Board of Yell, EPS increased by 8% to 35.5 pence per share.
At constant as an independent, non-executive director with effect from exchange rates, and adjusting for the issue of shares in 18 May 2007.
Tim brings a wealth of experience in the advance of the Yell Publicidad acquisition, the underlying international business environment and will be a valuable EPS growth was 13%.
In July 2006, we completed our purchase of TPI, now renamed Following a recent change in company legislation, we are Yell Publicidad, extending Yells footprint through leading giving you the opportunity to choose how to receive Yell positions in Spain, Argentina, Chile and Peru.
We are making company information, such as our Annual Report and other good progress with the integration of Yell Publicidad and shareholder communications in the future.
Further guidance with our back to basics programme that focuses attention and information is provided in the Investor information on developing the core business of directory publishing, section of this report on page 122. online advertising media and operator-assisted telephone information services.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to Our Annual General Meeting will be held on 19 July 2007 at take this opportunity to welcome everyone in Yell Publicidad 11am.
At the end of this report you will find the Notice of AGM to the Group.
which gives full details of the meeting and the resolutions on which I ask you to vote.
I look forward to meeting as many of In December 2006, the Competition Commission published you as possible at the meeting.
its Final Report on UK Classified Directory Advertising Services.
I am confident that we have the people, the products, the The conclusions were in line with the Commissions Provisional leadership and the commitment to maintain our position Findings and Proposed Remedies published earlier that year.
as market leader in our industry.
I would like to thank While we continue to believe that regulation is not needed, John Condron and the 13,600 people who now work for the Final Report recognised the highly competitive nature of the Yell for an excellent performance.
classified directories industry and we accepted the remedies it set out by way of revised undertakings.
In September 2006 we were once again listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
In January 2007 we were Bob Scott acknowledged as one of the worlds most sustainable Chairman businesses through our inclusion in the Global 100 for the second year running.
In April 2007 we were honoured to be selected for our second Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our commitment to sustainability.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 03 Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 04 2007 Key events Expanding multi-million 47 states and our platform brand the District of for growth promotion Columbia Yell acquired Telefnica We launched our Yellow Book expanded Publicidad e Informacin, high-profile Yellow Pages its footprint We made many small but significant SA TPI and 118 24 7 advertising in-fill acquisitions last year, giving We acquired TPI, now renamed Yell Our advertising campaign for our Yellow Book the widest reach of any Publicidad, with leading positions in printed and telephone products US directory publisher.
Spain, Argentina, Chile and Peru and showcased our advertisers with the we welcome them to our Group.
tagline Heres to the people behind the numbers.
New 154% More services increase content in visitors Yell.
com unveiled two new Yellowbook.
com added more mobile services increased dramatically content and improved Our application-based and user-based Its success was driven by an increasing the user experience mobile offerings give users the most number of visitors and a highly Yell.
com unveiled a new homepage as advanced and feature-rich mobile acclaimed TV advertising campaign well as new mapping, search and content services of their kind.
Other enhancements include a dedicated food and drink channel, an online shopping channel, and international business-to-business search.
04 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 CEOs strategic overview Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 06:36 Page 05 Heres to our strategy Our approach of simplicity, focus and discipline continues to define our business.
1 Business review CEOs strategic overview What we aim to achieve 06 What we do to get it right 10 How we encourage strong performance 11 How we know we are getting it right 12 Our strategy in action and how this positions us for the future 13
