Directors report Chairmans letter 2007: A year of delivery 2007 has been another successful year for BAE Systems.
The Group has again delivered a strong financial performance and has achieved much success in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Dick Olver Chairman 2007 was another successful year for BAE Systems.
The Group has to achieve the highest standards of governance in the conduct of our again delivered a strong financial performance and has achieved much day-to-day business.
success in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
As part of that drive, the Board agreed to undertake an expert and Our multi-home market strategy continues to generate opportunities independent audit of our ethical business conduct, to measure where for growth.
we stand today and to provide a point of reference with which to measure our progress over time.
In June 2007, the Board appointed In the UK, an increased emphasis on through-life business support an independent committee, chaired by Lord Woolf, the former Lord is being addressed successfully.
Similarly, the Groups strategy to Chief Justice of England and Wales.
The Woolf Committee will report develop an enhanced industrial presence in the Kingdom of Saudi on the status of ethics and governance in the Group and make Arabia has underpinned the winning of substantial new business recommendations on improving that will provide future growth in that market.
areas of weakness that may 1 Underlying earnings per share be found.
The report will be In the US, we continue to see the benefits of a well-executed from continuing operations pence published and the Board has acquisition strategy.
undertaken to act on all 35 Our global strategy will continue to develop.
The Groups focus on 31.0 such recommendations of the 30 business in its six home markets is delivering good returns and Committee.
We have taken 25 consideration is now being given to establish a presence in new 23.8 this bold step because we are home markets.
20 committed to being the industry 18.4 leader in business ethics.
The 15 A more global footprint brings with it responsibility to a wider, more 13.6 Woolf Committee report will be diverse stakeholder base.
As we grow internationally, it becomes 10 a valuable tool in our pursuit of increasingly important to keep pace with evolving customer and 5 this objective.
stakeholder expectations both in programme delivery and the methods by which we deliver our business.
We seek to nurture a During the year, further changes 04 05 06 07 culture within the Group of continuous improvement in all aspects were made in the composition of of business performance.
This includes ethical awareness as we work the Board.
With a ratio of eight 1 earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and uplift on acquired inventories see note 10 to the Group accounts 2 www.
baesyste ms. com The Woolf Committee independent non-executive directors to four executive directors, excluding myself as Chairman, we have a strong Board with a wealth of experience in both our own industry and international business generally.
During the year we welcomed Andy Inglis, who has a strong In June 2007 the Board appointed Lord Woolf to lead background in global programme execution, to the Board.
Also, I am an independent expert committee to study and publish pleased to report that Ravi Uppal will be joining the Board in April as a report on the Groups ethical policies and processes.
He is currently President, Global Markets for It is chaired by Lord Woolf.
ABB Limited and has first hand experience of managing engineering and technology businesses in Europe, the Middle East and India.
One Members of the Committee of our current non-executive directors, Peter Weinberg, will be standing down and not seeking re-election at this years Annual General Meeting in May.
He leaves us to dedicate more time to his business The Rt.
The Lord Woolf of Douglas N. Daft, AC, former interests as a partner in the rapidly growing financial services firm, Barnes Chairman, former Lord Chairman and Chief Executive Perella Weinberg Partners.
I wish him well for the future.
Chief Justice of England and Wales.
Ulrich Cartellieri, Steve Mogford and Chris Geoghegan retired from Sir David Walker, Senior Adviser Dr Richard Jarvis Secretary to the Board during the year and my sincere thanks go to them for their and former Chairman of Morgan the Committee, former Secretary dedicated service to the Group.
Stanley International Ltd. to the Committee on Standards in Public Life.
Philippa Foster Back OBE, Director Succession planning is vital to the wellbeing of a company, and of the Institute of Business Ethics.
BAE Systems has a well-defined and rigorous process for ensuring the continuity of high quality management appointments throughout the Group.
The announcement setting out the timetable for the Summary terms of reference appointment of a successor to Mike Turner as Chief Executive, when he steps down in August 2008, is a key part of that planning process.
Mike has made an outstanding contribution across his 42 years The Committee was appointed to: standards, whether they are with the Group, starting as an apprentice and culminating as Chief sufficiently robust to ensure review the Groups ethical policies Executive of the highly successful company that BAE Systems is today.
compliance with its ethical business and processes, and to review the policies generally and in particular Groups adherence to applicable Mike leads a highly skilled workforce of some 97,500 people who to detect and prevent violations of anti-corruption legislation, have delivered excellent performance during the year by providing anti-corruption laws: and including relevant international outstanding capability and support for the armed forces and all the treaty obligations: to make recommendations for any customers in the countries we serve.
I extend my thanks to each of remedial actions it believes the reach a judgement as to how the them for their contribution to the Groups success.
Groups policies and procedures benchmark against industry The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of 7.8p making a total of 12.8p for the year, an increase of 13.3% over 2006 endorsing our outlook for the Group.
At this level the annual dividend is covered 2.4 times by underlying earnings 2006 2.1 times.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 2 June 2008 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 18 April 2008.
Dick Olver Chairman The full terms of reference can be found on the Woolf Committee website at http: www.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 3
