Group overview with our progressive dividend policy of reducing, over time, our dividend cover to Chairmans statement around 2.5 times.
The changing industry landscape As well as changing economic conditions, this year has also seen significant changes in the public policy outlook for housebuilders.
This has been a historic year for Barratt Developments marked by very considerable change.
Under a new The UK Government has made housing a key priority going forward and has set out an Chief Executive, Mark Clare, we acquired Wilson ambition to increase signicantly the supply Bowden which took us into the FTSE100.
of new housing both in the private and affordable sectors.
To achieve this, further land will need to be made available together Whilst completing and rapidly integrating this major with reforms to the planning process.
acquisition, we have delivered a robust operating During the year the Ofce of Fair Trading started performance against a backdrop of increasing UK an industry review focusing on customer service and the supply of new housing.
The UK Government announced a target for new homes to be zero carbon by 2016.
This will lead to very significant changes in the way The acquisition of Wilson Bowden As a result of the acquisition we gained a houses are constructed and supplied with The acquisition of Wilson Bowden, completed strong commercial development business energy.
It is vital that the industry adjusts in April, has a strong underlying commercial in Wilson Bowden Developments.
We are rapidly and we have already made considerable logic and gives us new capabilities across currently reviewing how this can create best progress with various initiatives underway.
value for the Group, including leveraging its capability on large scale mixed-use schemes.
Safety remains a key priority for the Group.
The geographic coverage of our The tragic accident in Battersea in September housebuilding activity across Great Britain Our performance and dividends 2006 in which two people lost their lives, has been further underpinned providing a Our housebuilding business delivered strong underlined the dangers of the work we strong base for future growth.
The combined completion growth, robust profitability and a undertake and our thoughts and deepest business also has products spanning the healthy margin over the last twelve months.
sympathies remain with the families of those market from first time buyer homes to urban Wilson Bowden Developments delivered killed in the incident.
We continue to work regeneration through to upmarket housing a strong performance in line with market closely with the Health and Safety Executive under the well respected David Wilson Homes expectations.
on the cause of the incident and are brand.
In addition, the enlarged Group is committed to ensuring the safety of the public a major provider of social housing and These were encouraging results against the and our employees remains paramount.
backdrop of a year where we saw significant increases in UK interest rates.
To underpin Our people Our land position has improved and we have returns in what is expected to be a more To deliver such a strong performance against increased access to considerable expertise difficult environment we will continue to drive a background of rising interest rates and the in strategic land acquisition and delivery.
revenue whilst focusing rigorously on cost completion of a significant acquisition is a control and sales management.
major achievement for the Group.
It is a tribute The integration of the two businesses has to our Executive team and our employees, progressed rapidly and is now ahead of our The Board is proposing a final dividend of from both Barratt and Wilson Bowden, who original plans both in terms of timing and 24.30 pence per share 2006: 20.69 pence have worked tirelessly with considerable skill savings to be realised.
We now expect to per share for payment in November 2007. to deliver these results.
deliver at least 30m of synergies in 2007 8 This will bring our full year dividend to and at least 60m in the second full year after 35.68 pence per share and represents a completing the acquisition.
This is in keeping Barratt Developments PLC 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group overview Group overview | Chairmans statement To deliver such a strong performance against a background of rising interest rates and the completion of a [QOVQKIV IKY]Q[Q QWV is a major achievement for the Group.
The underlying strength of the business is also a tribute to David Pretty CBE our former Chief Executive who retired in December.
Geoff Hester also retired from the Board in January and we wish them both well in retirement.
The future In the coming year the Group is likely to face a more challenging market place as the impact of increasing interest rates and mortgage costs are felt.
In addition there is more uncertainty about the macroeconomic outlook.
By harnessing the capabilities of a strengthened management team, we will focus relentlessly on delivering benets from the acquisition, driving down costs and running the business to maximise shareholder value.
Top: The Forge, Ringmer: David Wilson Homes Bottom: Bakers Mill regeneration project, Charles Toner Great Cornard, Suffolk: Barratt Chairman Barratt Developments PLC 26 September 2007 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
