STRATEGY 29 chairmans statement In my first year as chairman of Grainger, I am pleased to report another year of strong progress and significant achievement in our three emerging business lines that complement our core residential regulated tenancy business.
Overview Conditions over the financial year have generally been favourable and we have increased our gross property asset base to 2.5bn from 2.0bn in 2006.
The increase has come from both revaluation uplifts our UK portfolio has shown an uplift of 9.8% and from acquisitions.
In total we spent 614m on property assets in the year, including the major corporate and portfolio acquisitions of CHARM, The Capital Appreciation Trust and The Tilt Estate.
The year-end value of our retirement solutions business has grown to 542m and we are pleased with our progress in Germany where we now own over 4,500 units worth 242m.
Capital recycling through the successful launch of our G:res1 fund and prudent debt raising in the early part of the year have meant that this growth has been achieved at sensible loan to value ratios 53% at 30 September 2007 whilst maintaining a valuable liquidity position ROBIN BROADHURST our headroom on our lending facilities at the year end amounted to 226m.
Chairman Results In the light of evolving practice of accounts presentation under IFRS, we have conducted a review of the classication of our property assets.
This has involved reclassifying a small proportion of those assets 4% from trading stock to investment property or vice versa.
The main impact has been that the revaluation surplus of 23.5m taken through the 2006 income statement on the transfer of assets to the Jersey Property Unit Trust JPUT that forms part of G:res1 has instead been taken through retained earnings at the beginning of that year net of tax of 7.0m.
There is no change to market value net asset value measures or to business cash ows.
Our 2006 gures have been restated accordingly and further details are given in the financial review section of this report.
profit before tax has increased by 62% to 77.5m from 47.7m restated, the principal driver of this being an improved contribution from our associates and joint ventures up to 40.6m from 0.4m.
Operating profit before fair value movements and goodwill impairment has increased to 89.0m from 81.5m, largely due to improvements in trading profits from our core business.
Gross net asset value per share Gross NAV has increased by 22.3% to 828p from 677p and there are similar improvements in our other NAV measures: Triple net asset value NNNAV up 25.8% to 613p from 487p and base case Grainger NAV up 23.0% to 732p from 595p.
Details of the calculations of these are given in the financial review.
Return on shareholders equity has increased to 27.1% from 26.5%.
STRATEGY 30 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 chairmans statement continued total dividend We are again increasing our dividend by 10% our 13th consecutive year of for the year increased dividends with the result that the board are recommending a final dividend of 4.12p per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.06p per 6.18p share paid on 16 July 2007, this will produce a total dividend for the year of per share 6.18p per share 2006: 5.62p.
At this level the dividend is covered 7.7 times 2006: 5.62p 2006: 4.6 times.
If approved the final dividend will be paid on 18 February 2008, to shareholders on the register on 18 January 2008.
Strategy The groups goal is to maintain and consolidate its position as the UKs leading quoted residential property company.
It is proud of its core property management services model which is at the heart of the business and seeks to deliver a personal and caring service to its many tenants.
Expanding and continuing the successful delivery of this service model will allow the group to expand and diversify its offerings, particularly in the elds of fund management and development, but operating within the residential arena utilising the experience gained over its long history.
We believe this goal will continue to deliver consistent long-term growth Our goal to become a leading European quoted residential in results and in dividends to our shareholders.
We are developing a mix of residential businesses away from our previous heavy reliance on regulated property company, we believe, will deliver consistent longtenancies.
Following the Housing Act 1988, the number of these tenancies will reduce over the next 10 years as this type of structure gradually disappears.
term growth in results and in dividends to our shareholders.
Historically the business has been largely centred on the ownership and trading of these large-scale residential portfolios of regulated tenancies.
Returns have been generated through rental income and, more signicantly, from capturing reversionary surpluses on sales when the properties fall vacant.
These returns have been enhanced by a cautious approach to acquisition, the application of rigorous management, growth in house prices and by appropriate levels of financial gearing.
In recent years we have used our cash generation and property management platform in the residential sector to enable us to capture a wider range of assets.
This expansion and diversication has enabled us to become market leaders in three residential sectors: the ownership of properties subject to regulated tenancies, providers of home reversions and residential fund management.
This latter activity, in particular, produces an income stream not reliant on the direct ownership of property and at low incremental cost.
We have also widened our risk and return exposure by increasing our involvement in residential development and by entering the German residential market.
Board changes At the beginning of May, we welcomed Henry Pitman as a non-executive director.
He was previously chief executive of Tribal Group Plc and his experience, which includes both property and government-related housing business, will be of great assistance to the board.
STRATEGY 31 My personal thanks go to Robert Dickinson from whom I took over as chairman at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in February.
His long service and contribution to the growth of the group has been previously recorded, but his help and guidance in the handover of the chairmanship was hugely appreciated.
We see good opportunities Outlook Whilst residential house prices continued to rise through this in continuing to apply our financial year, the listed property sector including real estate investment own variety and blend of skills trusts fell by more than 20%, largely fuelled by the sentiment that the rapid to different residential asset rises of recent years are unsustainable.
This has now proved to be the case classes.
Widening our spread and there is little doubt that the next year will be a challenging one both for of activities will give us both the sector and for Grainger.
Notwithstanding this, recent evidence suggests resilience as well as increase that properties in our portfolio are continuing to sell at or slightly above our long-term growth current valuation levels.
Graingers average house price in its core portfolio prospects.
is 205,000 and the portfolio is geographically diverse.
In light of this and our limited exposure to new build ats in city centres the area we expect to be the most difficult in the coming months, we believe that we are relatively well protected from the slowdown in the current market.
Going forward, we see good opportunities in continuing to apply our own variety and blend of skills to different residential asset classes.
Where appropriate, we will introduce third-party capital to enhance our returns and reduce our direct balance sheet exposure.
This may be in the form of joint ventures for example, along the lines of Grainger GenInvest and Curzon Park or in co-investing funds G:res1.
This will not be the first period of more challenging market conditions that the company has weathered in its long history.
Our experience, combined with the more diversied business model we now have in place, gives us confidence in our positioning and prospects.
We plan to continue our long-standing prudent approach towards acquisitions and liquidity and believe that our spread of activities will give us resilience and increase our long-term growth prospects to create shareholder value.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone at Grainger for the welcome and help that they have given me in my first nine months as chairman.
Their commitment and enthusiasm will serve the company and its shareholders well in the future.
