QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This has been another outstanding year in which strong progress has been made across our business.
HIGHLIGHTS In my first statement as Chairman of Quintain, I am The total return on the measure recommended delighted to be able to report another outstanding by the European Public Real Estate Association Wembley valuation year in which strong progress has been made across EPRA and dened on page 30 of the Operating and up 25.4% to 524.0m our business.
The most striking feature of the results Financial Review was 29.9%.
Both measures are far is the substantial capital uplift, driven largely by our above our internal target of 10% total return net of Greenwich valuation big urban regeneration schemes at Wembley and RPI ination, a target set at the time of the Companys up 43.8% to 225.0m Greenwich.
The valuation at Wembley this year has otation in 1996.
It has been exceeded in every produced a 25.4% increase to 524.0m, while year since.
Total five year Greenwich has seen a 43.8% increase to 225.0m, shareholder return with both percentage increases measured after We have also, once again, signicantly outperformed of 354.4% capital expenditure in the year.
Much of this the property market as measured by IPD.
Our total enhancement in value stems from the buoyancy IPD return, as dened in the Glossary on page 116, IPD return of 26.6% of the London residential market, which has for the year to 31 March 2007 was 26.6%, compared been reected in the very successful outcome with IPDs March Universe of 15.8%.
EPRA net asset value of recent sales of residential units at Wembley.
per share up 28.1% These are discussed in greater detail in the During the year, the net asset value per share rose to 784p Operating and Financial Review.
On an EPRA basis, It is gratifying that Quintains innovative, adjusted diluted net asset value per share rose large-scale schemes, designed to create by 28.1% to 784p per share.
As mentioned earlier, sustainable communities, are delivering value the main driver of the uplift was the surplus on on such a scale for shareholders as well as other property revaluation.
It is also pleasing that this success, on the valuations, together with a full review together with the impressive contribution of the of our operations, follows in the Operating rest of the business, has been mirrored in an and Financial Review.
outstanding share price performance relative to the market and the property sector.
Over the past profit before tax fell 20.5% from 65.0m to 51.6m, five years, Quintain has delivered a total shareholder while earnings per share from continuing operations return, based on the increase in share price adding fell 24.1% on a diluted basis from 45.2p to 34.3p.
back the dividend paid, of 354.4%, compared with As investment property revaluation movements are a return of 50.4% for the FTSE 350 Index and required to be included in the Income Statement, 187.7% for the FTSE Real Estate Index.
Over the pre-tax profit gure has inevitably become more 10 years, the Company is ranked number two volatile and the decline here reects lower valuation in the March Universe of Funds covered by surpluses on investment properties held directly the Investment Property Databank IPD, and in joint ventures.
However, the adjusted profit, the industry benchmark.
That is a tribute as dened on page 31 of the Operating and Financial to the dynamism of Quintains entrepreneurial Review, showed a 25.8% increase from 15.9m to management team and to the robustness 20.0m, with Quintains fund management business of its business model.
During the year, the business achieved a total Borrowings net of cash have increased from return, as measured by the increase in net assets 245.0m to 303.0m, while gearing remains per share adding back the dividend paid of 27.5% at 36%, the same level as last year.
or 22.7% net of Retail Price Index inflation.
indd 2 25 07 2007 12:28:57 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 03 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 % % IPD return 26.6 26.5 of which capital return 22.8 22.6 Total return 27.5 21.0 Total shareholder return 33.6 28.3 JOHN PLENDER Chairman DIVIDEND size of the business, Quintains entrepreneurial We believe that the As a result of the years strong performance, culture, strong work ethic and emphasis on risk Group is well positioned the Board is recommending an increase in the management is very much alive and well, as the to outperform in the final dividend of 1p to 8.25p giving a total dividend past years performance indicates.
I would like to years ahead, in terms for the year of 11.75p 2006: 10.50p, representing thank all the staff for their impressive contribution of our core measure of an increase of 11.9%.
The final dividend will be paid and commitment to the Company during the year.
total return, regardless on 7 September 2007 to shareholders on the register of market environment as at 27 July 2007.
The Companys intention is to I should also like to pay tribute to my predecessor, maintain a progressive dividend and this policy Nigel Ellis, who stepped down from the Chairmans will continue, subject to cash requirements.
Since he joined the Board in 1995, Nigels leadership, wise counsel and long experience CORPORATE GOVERNANCE in property have been an invaluable resource for a Quintain takes its corporate governance company experiencing very rapid growth and growing responsibilities very seriously and is compliant risk exposure.
Everyone at Quintain owes him a great with the Combined Code except in relation to debt.
Nigel will remain as a Non-Executive Director bonus arrangements, where under exceptional until the Companys Annual General Meeting circumstances, there is no upper limit in the on 4 September 2007. aggregate for share awards.
The Boards explanation for this is given in the Corporate In the course of the year, Tom Cross Brown resigned Governance Report of this Annual Report from the Board.
I would like to offer warm thanks and Accounts.
Quintain also goes beyond the for his contribution to Quintain.
requirements of the Combined Code in a number of areas, most notably in putting the Report of the OUTLOOK Audit Committee to the vote at the Annual General Since the start of the year, conditions in the Meeting.
In addition, both the Chairman of the Audit commercial property market have become less Committee and the Remuneration Committee buoyant.
However, Quintains diversied business are appointed annually by shareholders.
model, with its balance of mixed-use urban regeneration, investment property and fund PEOPLE management, has innate defensive merits in such Impressive as the financial numbers are, they circumstances, while retaining a continuing impetus say nothing about one of Quintains distinctive to embrace a variety of opportunities for rapid competitive advantages, which is its human capital.
We believe The management team has demonstrated a capacity that the Group is well positioned to outperform for constant innovation, putting the Company at the in the years ahead, in terms of our core measure forefront in creating sustainable communities, of total return, regardless of market environment.
exploring undervalued niche areas of the property That belief underpins our considerable market and making pioneering financial moves enthusiasm as we look to the future.
such as our profitable venture into the property derivatives market.
This habit of constant self-renewal and innovation has been facilitated by a at management structure, together with an intense internal competition for capital between the different parts of the business: likewise by the encouragement, within a prudent control framework, of risk-taking where this will deliver appropriate JOHN PLENDER returns for shareholders.
Despite the increasing CHAIRMAN 13 June 2007 3 QED ar07 front.
