6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RESULTS STRATEGY I am pleased to report on a 15th successive year Your companys strategy, being essentially of record results.
The success in achieving a long-term, is not altered because of the current signi cant increase in realised property pro ts and weakness in the investment market, although its valuation uplifts arising from asset management short-term implementation is obviously affected and planning activities more than compensated by market considerations.
for the valuation reductions arising from the This market weakness in fact serves to highlight correction in investment property yields which we the differentiation of your company from many of suffered in the second half.
its peers which I referred to in last years report.
Net assets per share increased by 20% to 387p Growth through realised pro ts and revaluations 2006: 323p.
Pro t before tax increased by 3% to based on actually adding value has always been 100.1m 2006: 96.9m.
Earnings per share grew at the heart of our strategy and should stand us in by 19% to 73.3p 2006: 61.6p.
good stead in this more dif cult climate.
Also our exposure to a broad range of market sectors and Our key performance measurement of return on geographic areas through seven regional of ces equity now calculated after tax was 21.9% 2006: gives us the ability to take advantage of whatever 21.3%.
We are now regarded as the UKs leading regeneration specialist which is evidenced by our DIVIDEND selection by BP as the developer of the Coed Darcy Your board is recommending a final dividend of site and by West Lancashire District Council and 7.8p 2006: 6.8p per ordinary share, making a total English Partnerships as their preferred partner for distribution for the year of 11.7p 2006: 10.2p, an the redevelopment of Skelmersdale town centre.
This final dividend will be paid on 4th April 2008 to shareholders on the register on In both these cases, our skills as a master 14th March 2008. developer which have been honed over the past two decades on schemes such as Hilton, Derbyshire joint venture with MOD : Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent joint venture with Stokeon-Trent City Council : Longbridge, Birmingham: and Llanwern, Newport proved attractive to the selecting organisations.
With the acknowledged need for major regeneration initiatives, the recognition of our skills in this important area should help to underwrite your companys future prosperity.
WE ARE NOW REGARDED Two key elements of the strategy are the continued acquisition of well-located opportunities to top AS THE UKS LEADING up the hopper and their marshalling through the planning and development process to ultimate REGENERATION SPECIALIST.
In both areas, this year has seen continued success as is set out in the business review.
Availability of finance is a critical success factor for a property business.
We have always operated a policy of reviewing our funding requirements on a regular basis and currently have all our facilities secured through to 2011 with a realistic degree of headroom and at competitive margins.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 BUSINESS REVIEW 7 SUSTAINABILITY PROSPECTS We remain committed to managing our affairs There will undoubtedly be some further with the highest standards of integrity and to deterioration in the market value of investment ensuring that communities and the environment properties, particularly in the first half of 2008, are respected in our developments.
In the CSR and we cannot be immune from the effects of that.
review, we set out how we go about achieving However, we are planning that overall the year these commitments.
will see growth in the companys net asset value, albeit at a lower level than in the recent past, and we would expect to maintain our recent pattern of dividend growth.
The company has a well-founded DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES development and marshalling programme and Achieving the results for the year in the current we are achieving a regular ow of occupational climate is a tribute to the quality and strength transactions.
of the team at all levels in the organisation.
My thanks go to everyone for the efforts they have put Our ambition remains to double net asset value in to bring about another successful year.
per share on a 5-year basis, but in the short term growing at that rate is clearly unrealistic whilst We have been recruiting extensively to cope with todays market conditions prevail, and we will not the challenges of growth and the sheer scale of be tempted to try to force the pace of growth faster the hopper and I have been delighted with the than prudent market judgements will allow.
quality of our new colleagues.
At the same time, it has been a real pleasure to see how so many Our con dence in the longer term is undiminished.
of our existing team have risen to the challenge We are continuing, therefore, to invest in people, and developed their own skills to take more regional of ces and acquisitions for the hopper so responsibility within the organisation.
that we will be in good shape when the market stabilises.
By way of example, Rupert Wood, who has been with us less than two years, has been promoted Anthony Glossop to head the new Northern Home Counties region Chairman and Rupert Joseland and Stephen Prosser, who 8th February 2008 formed the new South West and Yorkshire of ces three years ago, have been promoted to regional director.
The increased strength in depth in the company enables my own role to continue to evolve.
I will continue to give support to Bill Oliver and the executive in maintaining the companys standing in the market as well as undertaking the normal role of a nonexecutive chairman.
