s r P t e n e a d e l l r m p o t n Business review - Chairmans statement Optimising value for all stakeholders Roger Lewis Chairman With regard to the future strategy, the than the 165.1 million reported for the Board is seeking to replicate the key same period last year, an increase of 13.9%.
features of the Scheme of Arrangement to preserve the environment in which its Basic earnings per share from continuing Sustainable urban entrepreneurial management team has operations totalled 112.6 pence, an regeneration concentrated on maximising returns to increase of 11.4% on the 101.1 pence shareholders through its focus on reported for the same period last year.
optimising Berkeleys land holdings and cash generation as opposed to the income Over the year, total equity has reduced by statement.
This strategy is founded on the 55.6 million to 781.6 million April 2006 Boards belief that the business has a 837.2 million and net assets per share natural size, and is not scaleable in the by 48 pence 6.9% from 697 pence to I am delighted that, at the same time traditional sense due to the complexities of 649 pence.
The 48 pence reduction is due as announcing these exceptional results, developing and delivering sustainable to the 241.6 million 2006 B share I can also announce our proposals for mixed-use urban regeneration schemes.
redemption in January 2007 200 pence, the next phase of Berkeleys strategy.
Attention to detail and quality together with offset by the profit after tax for the year of devoting the necessary amount of time and 112.6 pence: the revaluation reserve arising Scheme of Arrangement and 2007 management to every aspect of the from fair valuing the 50% of St James net Strategic Review development cycle for each site is the key assets already owned at acquisition 16.9 In June 2004 Berkeley announced its to delivering value to shareholders and pence : and factors relating to accounting proposals to return 12 per share to creating the inspiring sustainable for pensions and share based payments shareholders in conjunction with its future communities that we, our customers and 22.5 pence.
strategy to focus on its urban regeneration other stakeholders demand.
This was approved by shareholders At 30th April 2007, Berkeley had net cash and effected by a Court approved Scheme As a result, following the completion of the of 81.0 million April 2006 220.6 of Arrangement in October 2004 which 12 per share Scheme of Arrangement million after generating 102.0 million of created four tranches of B shares.
To date, payments, the Board is proposing to make cash flow in the year before the 241.6 and in line with the original payment annual dividend payments at a cover ratio million 2006 B share payments in January schedule, 7 per share has been returned of less than 2 times.
This will ensure 2007: a net reduction of 139.6 million.
to shareholders with the remaining 2 and shareholders continue to see immediate 3 per share scheduled for payment in benefit from the Groups strategy, while Return on capital employed for the year was January 2009 and 2011 respectively.
allowing the Board to maximise short term 28.1% compared to 24.0% last time.
opportunities under an unambiguous long Since 1st May 2004, the time of the term strategy.
Sustainability strategic review that led to the Scheme of Although our focus remains the same, Arrangement, Berkeley has generated some The Board believes that it is appropriate to much has changed in the fifteen years 820 million of cash before payments to consult with shareholders on the since Berkeley took the decision to place shareholders, demonstrating the underlying remuneration policy to bring this in line its business in the centre of towns and strength of the Group and its ability to with the proposed acceleration of the cities.
Above all there has been a stepgenerate cash and meet its strategic remaining B shares and, looking forward, to change in the way in which our society objectives.
This, coupled with the strong put in place a new policy aligned to the thinks about the impact of what we do.
forward sales position, has provided the next phase of Berkeleys strategy.
Keeping pace with this growing concern Board with the opportunity to review the Accordingly, the Board will consult with with the legacy we create for future timing of the remaining B share payments shareholders on its proposals during July generations has played a central role in and consider the most appropriate strategy and August in advance of the AGM.
Berkeleys success: we have never for Berkeley once the B shares are paid.
The underestimated the scale of our conclusion of this review is that approval will Results responsibilities and remain passionate be sought at the Annual General Meeting on about meeting the challenges in the way 102.0 million of cash 5th September 2007 to accelerate the that is expected of us.
Consequently, the payment of the 2008 B share 2 per principles of sustainability have been, for generated before 2006 share by 12 months to the beginning of some time, a driving force of what we do B share redemption January 2008 and to pay the final 2010 B and how we do it.
Bringing derelict share of 3 per share at a date to be Berkeley is delighted to announce a pre-tax brownfield land back to life is inherently determined but no later than the original profit of 188.1 million for the year ended positive, but we are spurred forwards by a scheduled date of January 2011.
This is 23.0 million more desire to further understand the reality of www.
co. uk 3 h o o n e r i e r e v a n P r E h s S Business review - Chairmans statement continued implementing our policies, not just in the long-term in a way that in turn helps embedded culture is what sets Berkeley strategic terms, but on a day-to-day basis.
build better futures for our customers.
We apart from its peers and makes it a place were delighted to have these efforts where people at the top of their discipline There are powerful reasons for doing so: recognised externally this year and to want to work.
the Code for Sustainable Homes has had a receive the Building Award for Regeneration major impact on the development industry Housebuilder of the Year, as well as On behalf of the Board and shareholders, and we have reviewed its requirements to sustainability awards for Sustainable we would like again to express our understand the commercial implications of Developer Berkeley Homes and continued thanks and appreciation to all reaching its higher levels.
We are also Sustainable Development of the Year those who have contributed to this years responding to our customers, who Ropetackle in Shoreham, a development outstanding results and who will contribute demonstrate increasing interest in living in undertaken in partnership with SEEDA.
to the exciting future ahead for Berkeley.
homes that respect the environment: our people, who have become genuinely Our People Board Changes passionate about sustainability: and, of Berkeleys success is driven by the passion, After 16 years with Berkeley, the last eight course, our investors, who wish us to dedication and innovation of its people.
as Chairman, I have decided that this is the sustain value in the medium and longer The Groups philosophy is to devolve right time for me to retire from the Board term.
Alongside this, however, is a sense of operational responsibility and and this will be effective at the end of July.
the opportunities associated with our role, accountability to autonomous management not just as part of the mix of forces that teams and this creates an environment in It has long been my intention to retire on drive the regeneration of urban areas, but which these attributes flourish.
Urban reaching 60 and with the business in such also as part of a wider community that is regeneration is complex and it requires a good shape I cannot imagine a more attempting to understand the changes it relentless attention to detail that can only appropriate time.
It has been a privilege to needs to make if it is to become truly thrive if people are truly passionate about oversee Berkeleys development and be part sustainable.
It is this focus that, we believe, what they do and are motivated to achieve of a dynamic first class executive team.
helps enhance the value of our business in the highest standards.
This deeply Grosvenor Waterside, London A contemporary development of apartments and penthouses built around two historic London docks Once complete, Grosvenor will provide 912 homes and some 35,000 sq ft of commercial space Including seven buildings designed by leading architects, Grosvenor is creating a new quarter in Westminster I am delighted that Victoria Mitchell, Regional plc, Alan has also served on the generation over the last three years, the currently a non-executive director of boards of Carillion plc as a non-executive Board now has sufficient visibility over the Berkeley and Chairman of the director and Wembley plc as CEO.
Following future to seek approval to accelerate the Remuneration Committee, has accepted the AGM the Board will comprise a remaining B share payments to shareholders.
the position of Non-Executive Chairman to non-executive chairman, four executive succeed me and I have no doubt that she directors and three non-executive directors The market in London and the South East will be a great success in her new role.
and it is therefore the intention to recruit a is favourable due largely to the capitals fourth non-executive director to ensure the unique standing as a World City and As announced in December last year, balance of the Board meets the Combined financial centre, but we should not ignore Tony Palmer will retire at the AGM.
Tony Codes recommendations in this area.
the imbalances in the wider economy that has been a non-executive member of the can lead to a sense of uncertainty.
Board for nine years and is the senior Prospects independent director.
The Board would In 2006 07 Berkeley has continued to Berkeley is in a strong position and has in like to thank Tony for his outstanding concentrate on its areas of competitive place the right strategy to maximise returns contribution over these years.
David Howell, advantage and the business is well placed to shareholders and to take advantage of a non-executive director since February to look to the future with confidence.
new opportunities as they arise.
The 2004 and the Chairman of the Audit We have the right strategy for the market business looks forward to an exciting future Committee, will replace Tony as the senior in which we operate, an unrivalled land with confidence and I wish it and its independent director at the AGM.
bank and exceptional teams throughout incredible people every success.
the business with the passion and During the year Alan Coppin joined entrepreneurial flair to unlock value by the Board as a non-executive director, creating truly sustainable communities.
bringing with him a wealth of corporate experience in the property sector.
Currently When combined with forward sales of a non-executive director of Capital and 936.3 million and the strong cash Roger Lewis Chairman
