Chairmans statement As Aberdeen approaches its twenty-fifth anniversary, I am A year of continuing success pleased to report that 2007 has been a year of continuing success for the Group, achieved through strong organic growth for the Group, achieved through and selective acquisitions.
We have attracted record inflows across a range of asset classes strong organic growth and and clients that delivered 8.7 billion of net new business during the year, with a further 3.1 billion of mandates awarded, the selective acquisitions.
assets of which will come in after the year end.
The Groups clear and disciplined investment processes across our core competencies of equities, fixed income and property have helped underpin these new business gains over the last year.
During the year, we also announced three infill acquisitions: DeAM Australia, Glasgow Investment Managers, and Nationwide Financial Services in the United States.
The first two transactions were completed during the year and added 5 billion to assets under management AuM.
Total AuM at the year end had increased 30% to 95.3 billion.
Completion of the third transaction added a further 3.5 billion to AuM on 1 October, such that total AuM exceeded 100 billion at 31 October 2007.
The investment environment over the last twelve months has however been characterised by increasing extremes.
Some markets have become overvalued, in particular China and also a Charles Irby Chairman number of commodities.
A similar mispricing of risk led, in part, to the collapse of the subprime credit markets.
Our fixed income teams resisted investing in Collaterised Debt Obligations CDOs, many of which have been built on mortgage-backed structures, because of the lack of price transparency and concerns over credit quality.
Our core equity managers have stuck to their process of only investing in stocks that meet their strict quality and valuation criteria.
Thus they now have in general significantly lower exposure to China and the resource sector than either benchmarks or their peer groups.
The positions we take on behalf of client portfolios are conviction-based and our long-term track record demonstrates the benefit of this approach.
Our fixed income teams have strong three-year performance over almost their entire product range.
In our equity portfolios, we have also done well over this period.
We now lag, however, in Asia Pacific equities, where we have suffered because of our reluctance to chase a market rally that has become increasingly focused on China and related cyclical stocks, where valuations appear unsustainable.
Underlining our improved performance, Edhec Europerformance ranked Aberdeen top in the UK in the 2007 Alpha League Table.
Their report stated that Aberdeen not only offers substantial alpha, but it is also capable of generating it from a significant portion of its actively managed funds.
2 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Results and dividend Our strategy The Groups underlying profit, which we define as profit before The Group has a balanced business with principal taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible investment centres in the three main time zones.
assets, was 94.3 million compared to 79.9 million in 2006.
This represents underlying earnings per share, on a diluted basis, of Our expertise is the management of client portfolios from 11.1p, an increase of 24% on last year.
After accounting for a fundamental perspective.
This forms the basis of our core exceptional items and amortisation, we report a pre-tax profit of investment competence.
23.7 million, compared to 53.8 million in 2006.
We intend to develop our investment capability and The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.9p per share, distribution platforms in order to enter new markets making a total payment for the year of 5.5p per share, an and segments where we have a competitive and increase of 25% on the total payment for 2006. sustainable edge.
We will add new offices where it will enhance our services Financials to clients and prospects or deepen our investment coverage.
Revenue has increased by 15% to 347.8 million.
This growth has been well spread over the Group's activities, with both the We also build our assets and skills through acquisitions investment management and property divisions delivering where we see a fit to our existing business.
To manage costs, we outsource or centralise non-core Operating expenses have risen at a lower rate, 10%, and thus the functions.
We prefer to own investment competence, Group's underlying operating profit has improved by 22% on the product development and client relations ourselves.
We continued to strengthen the balance sheet, principally from the issue, in May, of US$400 million of 7.9% Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities in the Asian retail market.
This issue, which is treated as an element of equity, has introduced additional flexibility to our capital structure.
The proceeds of the issue have been used to finance the acquisitions referred to earlier, to repay outstanding bank debt and to finance the purchase of shares for the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
New business The Group has continued to attract a broad range of new business and now has an extensive spread of products and clients.
The majority of segregated new business wins were in fixed income mandates, where we saw strong inflows into global, US, emerging markets and Liability Driven Investment LDI strategies.
In equities, while interest continued in our Asia Pacific equity capability, there was also increasing demand for our emerging market and global equity products, including some with Socially Responsible Investment SRI overlays.
Net sales, as summarised in the following table, were dispersed across Continental Europe 50%, the United States and Canada 22%, the UK 17% and the Middle East 11%.
Funded Yet to Total in year fund awarded m m m Segregated account mandates 6,792 2,123 8,915 Funds 202 202 Total fund management division 6,994 2,123 9,117 Property division 1,704 947 2,651 Group total 8,698 3,070 11,768 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 Chairmans statement continued Our property division, which is the largest property manager in The acquisitions in the US and Scandinavia, has continued to expand.
A key focus has been the strategic transition away from segregated mandates towards Australia provide increased property funds, with property funds now accounting for 48% 2006: 27% of property AuM, which increased by 42% over the distribution as well as year to 9.4 billion.
The team has successfully launched seven new funds during the year adding a total of e2.3 billion 1.6 new products.
billion to assets under management.
They include funds for the Nordic region, France & Southern Europe, European Shopping Centres and Russia.
We have also continued to lead the evolution Outlook in the property fund-of-funds sector, introducing two Asian and two European funds during 2007 has been a rewarding year for the Group.
now to consolidate our recent gains, as well as to manage our cost base efficiently.
Corporate activity We are cautious about the outlook for world financial markets The Group completed a number of infill acquisitions during and, consequently, the prospects for attracting new business on the second half of the year.
We acquired certain businesses from the scale of the last year.
However the work we have done over DeAM Australia on 1 June, completing our global fixed income the past three years in strengthening and diversifying our capability as well as improving our profile in the Australian product range and client base will ensure the Group is well institutional market.
In addition, the acquisition of Glasgow placed to grasp opportunities for continued growth.
It is Investment Managers in August complements Aberdeens pleasing to note that, since the year end, AuM have surpassed existing UK investment trust range by adding three 100 billion and trading in the new financial year is satisfactory.
high-yielding UK equity income trust contracts.
Finally, I would like to welcome our new employees to the Finally, towards the end of our financial year, we agreed to Group and to thank all of our staff for their continued hard work purchase the US equity asset management business from and commitment.
I would also like to thank my fellow board Nationwide Financial Services adding approximately members for their valuable input during what has been a US$7 billion 3.5 billion of AuM, principally in sub-advisory dynamic year.
This transaction will increase the Groups presence in the US mutual fund market.
Business development The background to our business development has been one of increasing globalisation.
In January, we opened an office in Frankfurt, a continuation of our strategy to distribute through a Charles Irby local presence within Europe, and this office has already Chairman registered a number of new business wins.
In the Middle East we widened our core client base, in addition to receiving extra funding from existing clients.
In the US, our focus on the consultant channel resulted in new business wins.
The acquisitions in the US and Australia provide increased distribution as well as new products: mutual funds and domestic equities in the US and a domestic fixed income capability in Australia.
We decided in October to close temporarily to new business our mainstream segregated fixed income capability, in order to ensure that we manage effectively the strong levels of growth.
As with our soft close for Asia-Pacific segregated equity mandates in 2005, we believe this move is in the best interests of our clients and of our shareholders and allows us to grow our business at a sustainable pace.
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
