CHAIRMANS STATEMENT REVIEW OF 2007 PERFORMANCE The year to 31 December 2007 was difficult for small company share prices.
As a resultof this, Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT produced a negative total return of 10.4%, compared with a negative total return of 8.3% for the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies, your Companys investment benchmark.
ASCoT has therefore under-performed its benchmark for the year.
Larger companies, as represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, registered a positive total return of 5.3%.
In each of the last three Annual Reports, your Board and Managers have been cautious about extrapolating previous years excellent returns.
This caution has been proven correct.
Your Managers Report provides insight into ASCoTs performance as well as that of small and large companies.
 and will not alter that policy, this caution has, at least, prevented us from any material gearing of ASCoT in the recent past.
ASCoTs gearing position is reviewed regularly by your Board and Managers and a borrowing facility remains available to ASCoT.
DIVIDENDS Following a review of ASCoTs dividend payment policy, your Board concluded that the payment of a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, enables the dividend to be paid to Shareholders earlier than in previous years.
Therefore, your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend of 10.5p per share, which produces total dividends for the year of 15.2p per share representing an increase of 13.4% on the total for the previous year.
This is a larger increase than your Board would have declared in the absence of the positive outcome to the VAT legal challenge described in more detail later in my Statement and therefore defers, for an excellent reason, the rebalancing of the relative weight of the first and second interim dividends alluded to in my Interim Statement.
The second interim dividend of 10.5p per share will be paid on 21 February 2008 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 February 2008.
The last date for submission of Forms of Election for those Shareholders wishing to participate in ASCoTs Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRiP is 31 January 2008.
Details of the DRiP are available from Aberforth Partners LLP on request or from their website, www.
The underlying growth in dividends from ASCoTs portfolio has been good.
However, the years earnings have been enhanced by approximately 1.89p per share as a result of the VAT situation mentioned above and more fully explained below.
This comprised 1.44p per share in respect of past years expected repayment of VAT and 0.45p per share in respect of 2007 a combination of VAT paid in 2007 being recoverable and some management fees not incurring VAT in the year.
Future years earnings will be higher than would otherwise have been the case as VAT is no longer charged on ASCoTs management fee.
VALUE ADDED TAX VAT In 2004, the Association of Investment Companies AIC, together with JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc Claverhouse, brought a case against HM Revenue and Customs HMRC to challenge the imposition of VAT on management fees paid by investment trust companies.
The case was referred to the European Court of Justice and its judgment was delivered in June 2007 supporting the Claverhouse and AIC position.
HMRC announced its decision to withdraw its appeal in November 2007.
Your Board congratulates the AIC and Claverhouse on this outcome.
We are pleased that agreement has already been reached with your Managers that will secure recovery of all the VAT paid by ASCoT since 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2001 subject to the appropriate refund of VAT by HMRC to Aberforth Partners LLP.
In this regard, ASCoTs net assets include 4.7m 4.75p per share, being the estimated repayment of all VAT paid on investment management fees since 1 January 2001 including VAT previously offset by your Managers.
Certain VAT paid in relation to earlier periods may also be recoverable pending the outcome of further legal appeals although the relevant amounts have not been recognised at this stage.
CONTINUATION VOTE ASCoT has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with its Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that ASCoT continues.
If this resolution is not passed, your Board will prepare and submit proposals to reconstruct ASCoT appropriately.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring ASCoT to be wound up.
Such Continuation Votes have been held in 1996, 1999, 2002 and 2005, and all have been passed by overwhelming majorities.
The table on page 20 of these Report and Accounts sets out in detail the performance of ASCoT in each of its 17 years existence.
ASCoTs long term record is outstanding having produced since inception in 1990 a compound annual total return in net asset value of 16.0%, compared with the 11.7% produced by the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
However, since the last Continuation Vote three years ago, ASCoTs net asset value has generated a compound annual total return of 12.2%, compared with 14.5% generated by ASCoTs investment benchmark.
This underperformance has been made worse for Shareholders because the discount at which ASCoTs shares have traded relative to its net asset value has widened.
Your Board recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of ASCoTs continuation and your Directors intend to do so in respect of their beneficial holdings.
In doing so, your Board is mindful of the facts that small companies have recently performed poorly compared with large companies and that your Managers value investment style has been out of favour.
The consistent application of this value investment style by your Managers, the seven partners of Aberforth Partners LLP five of whom are the founding partners, has served your Company very well over the longer term but no single investment style performs well in all economic and stockmarket conditions.
It is clear that the investment styles of growth and momentum have performed better than value over these last three years, and especially so recently.
Your Board therefore concludes that ASCoTs underperformance is more to do with investment style rather than any other factors.
Some Shareholders may recall that ASCoT underperformed in1997,1998, and1999  shunned valueinvestments intothe turn of the Millennium.
In each of the following three years ASCoT produced excellent relative returns so history shows that no style or set of conditions lasts indefinitely.
It matters more to remain consistent so that when the environment changes, as it surely will, the greatest possible investment performance may be obtained.
Your Board believes your Managers will provide that in due course.
SHARE BUY BACK AUTHORITY AND TREASURY SHARES At the Annual General Meeting in February 2007, the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of ASCoTs Ordinary Shares was renewed.
No Ordinary Shares were purchased during the year.
Your Board will be seeking a renewal of this authority at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 March 2008.
Your Board has established, and keeps under careful review, the circumstances under which such authority may be utilised.
Should these arise, ASCoT will seek to purchase Ordinary Shares and it is your Boards current policy to cancel, rather than hold in treasury, any such shares.
As already noted, ASCoTs discount has widened over the last three years.
Your Board has always had as ,  asseems possible.
Constant monitoring of ASCoTs discount relative to other UK Smaller Companies specialist 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT investment trusts has suggested that, even over the periods mentioned, ASCoTs discount has typically been amongst the narrowest of its peer group and that many of these peers who have bought shares in have nevertheless experienced wide discounts and in most cases wider than ASCoTs.
Merely buying in shares therefore has not resulted in sustaining low discounts in what has clearly been an out of favour investment trust sub sector.
Given this, your Board has been reluctant, so far, to buy back Ordinary Shares under current market conditions.
Sufce to say, however, that your Board stands ready to use ASCoTs buy back authority if and when it believes that a sustained and positive effect on the discount would result.
SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK I summarised last year: There will, sooner or later, be more testing stockmarket conditions than those ASCoT has enjoyed these last four years.
I also noted in each of my last two years Statements that cheap and abundant debt was causing asset prices to rise, fuelling M&A activity, and that this could not go on forever.
We now endure tougher times but investment history demonstrates that just as good times end so do tough times.
However, it is impossible to gauge their length and depth.
Your Board believes the vast majority of ASCoTs Shareholders are long term investors, understanding of investment cycles and appreciative of your Managers consistency.
We strongly recommend Shareholders should confirm this belief by supporting the Continuation Vote.
