6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairman's statement A highlight of 2007 was our I ended my statement last year by saying that our strategy remained clear and straightforward to continue to grow our share of the UK direct admission in private motor market, maximising the value derived from each customer relationship, whilst also identifying profitable opportunities, in particular December to the our expansion overseas, to exploit the knowledge, skills and resources attaching to our core business.
As FTSE 100 Henry Engelhardt sets out in detail in his statement, 2007 was a year in which the Group made significant progress in Alastair Lyons CBE that strategic direction.
In the UK, despite market conditions remaining challenging, Admiral increased both underwriting and ancillary profits whilst substantially growing the number of vehicles insured.
At the end of the year our brands covered 1.49 million vehicles, 16% up on December 2006.
The 13% increase achieved in profit derived from ancillary products and services is testament to the success we continue to derive from our focus on maximising the value of each customer relationship.
An upward trend in pricing does now seem to have become established with a general increase of 4% over the year as a whole.
Whilst only sufficient to offset general claims inflation, this breaks a 5 year pattern of flat or even slightly falling rates.
Against this backdrop we were happy to take back 5% of the underwriting risk when it came available at the end of last year, increasing the proportion of gross premiums underwritten by Admiral in 2008 from 22% to 27%.
We have made significant progress during 2007 with our international strategy.
es, the on-line Spanish motor insurer that we launched in October 2006, ended 2007 with 47,000 customers a great achievement in little over a year from a standing start.
We followed this with the launch in October 2007 ADMIRAL GROUP plc 7 of AdmiralDirekt.
fide, our new onretained in 2008, this allows us to As at the end of the year we employed line German motor insurer based in lift our dividends for the year by 22% 2,500 staff, 90% of whom live and work Cologne, and we announced at the to 43.8p per share 23.2p final: 20.6p in South Wales.
This makes Admiral a time of our half-year results that we interim.
significant part of the local community were well advanced with plans to and we encourage our staff to be launch into Italy during 2008.
Our We have maintained our approach of associated with the local projects that teams in each country have built on considering dividends in two parts.
are important to both them and their the learning of their colleagues who The first element, being the normal families.
During 2007 we provided launched before them and I would dividend, is based on a 45% pay-out financial support to 110 such projects.
In take this opportunity to give them ratio.
The second element - the special addition Admiral sponsored a number credit for their enthusiasm, resilience, dividend - derives from our principle of high profile local events within and consequent achievements.
Staying of returning to shareholders available South Wales - the Admiral Cardiff Big with the international theme I should surpluses, calculated as the Groups Weekend and the Swansea Waterfront also mention the establishment of our net assets less its required solvency: Winterland, of both of which Admiral new customer service centre in Halifax, cover against any specific expansion was the main sponsor in 2007, together Canada where we now employ directly plans, being at this year-end 5m in attracted over 365,000 visitors.
More over 100 staff helping to share the load respect of overseas: and a prudent details of which will be found in the of our long opening hours with our margin - currently 25m - against report on corporate responsibility.
Special dividends since This report also describes the steps flotation in September 2004 amount we take to minimise the impact of our During the year we announced that we to 146.6m, this being in addition to operations on the environment.
had entered discussions with potential 149.5m normal dividends over the private equity investors regarding the same period.
May I end by thanking everyone who sale of a minority interest in our price has contributed so much to achieve comparison business, Confused.
A highlight of 2007 was our admission the successes that I have been able to Having, however, understood in detail in December to the FTSE 100, an outline above first and foremost our the implications of such an investment achievement of which the executive staff who make Admiral the Company for the flexibility of Confuseds team can be justifiably proud in slightly it is: our executive management team ongoing management, the Board over three years since flotation.
Over whose quality of leadership justifies determined that taking such a step this period, taking dividends and share our being placed for 8 consecutive would materially constrain our ability appreciation together, we achieved a years amongst The Sunday Times Top to maximise Confuseds contribution 335% total return for shareholders.
100 Companies to Work For in the UK: to the Group in the medium to long and our Non-executive Directors for term.
We, therefore, determined that it Alignment of the interests of our their commitment and wise counsel.
was in our shareholders best interests staff and our shareholders is one of to terminate the discussions and retain our core principles.
Our Free Share a 100% interest in Confused.
We will Schemes are designed to strengthen continue our strategy of maintaining that alignment over time.
We are Confuseds strong market position in delighted that strong out-performance car insurance price comparison and against our plan during 2007 resulted in developing its potential to extend eligible employees once again realising Alastair Lyons into price comparison within other the maximum award of 3,000 free Chairman product areas.
2007 was another very shares under our Approved Scheme.
successful year for Confused, profits The 2007 financial year marked the growing by 59% to 37million.
As we end of the first 3-year period for the have said previously, there is growing Discretionary Free Share Scheme.
A competition in this sector and we 54.8% outperformance of growth in will continue to work hard to defend earnings per share over and above the our leadership position in this rapidly risk-free return qualified the scheme to expanding market.
vest the maximum share entitlement under the individual awards.
Following In a strongly competitive market we the 2007 awards there are now are pleased to be able to announce a 1,645 employees participating in the 24% increase in Group pre-tax profits Discretionary Free Share Scheme, itself to 182million off an 11% growth in consistent with our philosophy of total written premiums.
Taking into achievement through teamwork.
account the increased solvency capital required by the higher underwriting Chairmans Statement 06 - 07
