qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:04 Page 4 Directors Report Business Review 4 Chairmans statement Commitment to profitable growth I am pleased to report that BG Group has achieved another good set of results.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman I am pleased to report that BG Group has on the global climate.
In response, many achieved another good set of results, with governments are now committed to the a 5% increase in total operating profit to reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
3 248 million and an 11% increase in This will require a multi-stranded approach, earnings per share to 52.7 pence.
We are once encompassing fuel choice and efficiency again raising the full year dividend payment, of energy use, as well as alternatives to the with a 30% increase to 9.36 pence per share.
burning of fossil fuels and the deployment Financial results alone can never tell more of technology innovations such as carbon than part of the story in a business such as capture and storage.
I am, therefore, very Natural gas offers plentiful supplies, pleased to report that there were highly proven and cost-effective technology, encouraging developments in the Groups and, importantly as the cleanest of exploration prospects, including one of the the hydrocarbon fuels 40% lower carbon major industry successes of recent years in the content than coal.
As a result, there is Tupi discovery, offshore Brazil.
Production an opportunity for gas to displace more volumes were broadly in line with 2006, even carbon-intensive energy sources.
Gas is though output was affected by a number of also capable of greater generation efficiency factors, notably the disruption to UK than other fossil fuels.
Although natural production caused by third-party damage to gas is not the answer to climate change, the North Sea Central Area Transmission it can make an important contribution System CATS pipeline.
There was further towards a solution.
excellent performance by the Liqueed As a global integrated gas business, Natural Gas LNG business, where profits BG Group is playing a part in helping to increased by 48%.
meet this defining challenge of our age, Business context coupled with a commitment to reduce Natural gas has become one of the worlds carbon emissions from its own operations.
most important commodities, central This subject is addressed later in this to global long-term energy needs.
Access Report and also in more detail in the to secure gas supplies whether imported Groups separate Corporate Responsibility or indigenous is seen as essential in most Report 2007. mature economies, and plays an increasingly Global energy needs grew throughout 2007, important part in the development of many reected in high oil prices and a continued emerging nations.
increase in the demand for gas.
This was For a growing number of countries, the particularly evident in the international importance of gas within the broader energy LNG market, which is becoming a significant mix is magnied further by concern about contributor to energy supply security and climate change.
There is clear evidence that in which BG Group benets strongly from mankinds activities have a direct impact its role as a leading gas company.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p04-06 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:21 Page 5 5 Whilst prices are likely to uctuate, it looks probable that they will remain at levels 2007 highlights signicantly higher than we saw in the earlier part of this decade.
However, for BG Group, as for many international oil and gas companies, gains from commodity prices Revenue and other operating income Earnings per share in 2007 were partly offset by the continued weakness of the US Dollar, the currency 8 330m 52.7p in which a significant proportion of the 2006 7 270m up 15% 2006 47.4p up 11% Groups revenues are denominated, and by an increase in costs, far in excess of the rate Total operating profit Dividend per share of ination, for most of the supplies and services upon which our industry depends.
3 248m 9.36p Strategic framework 2006 3 103m up 5% 2006 7.20p up 30% Whilst BG Group has its roots in the old British Gas monolith, its emergence as an international business is much more recent Progress in 2007 prone to political and social instability, and and is largely a product of the last ten years, There were a number of notable highlights the process by which those reserves are following the demerger of British Gas into in the Groups Exploration and Production found, produced and delivered to markets BG Group and Centrica which owns the E&P activities over the year.
These are is one that presents constant technological British Gas marketing business in the UK.
As BG Group discussed more fully in the Chief Executives BG Groups evolution over the last ten years statement.
The main focal point was the grows and as established hydrocarbon can be viewed as having three broad, provinces in developed nations approach outcome of drilling in the Santos Basin, overlapping phases.
maturity the Groups portfolio will continue offshore Brazil, by the consortium in which to include territories presenting a higher BG Group has a 25% interest.
Results there In the early part of the decade, the focus was degree of risk than that faced within the indicate the prospect of a new world-class on progressing the portfolio of opportunities more stable economies of Organisation for eld, offering the potential for a major new that had been put in place in the late 1990s.
Economic Co-operation and Development source of value for the Group in the longer Important new opportunities were also OECD nations.
The signing of a new agreement on the identied, notably the core of the Global LNG sale of gas from the Karachaganak facility in business, which is now a major contributor to These risks which include the range of Kazakhstan was also an important milestone the Group.
government actions associated with resource for the Group, providing for signicantly nationalism and the threat of disruption from In recent years, as the Group has expanded, increased gas sales once the proposed the actions of non-state groups are faced by it has focused on the timely completion of its Phase III expansion comes onstream.
all large international oil and gas companies.
project portfolio and on the development of a However, in highlighting the risk factors to be new, and much wider, portfolio of exploration The growth of the LNG business has taken into account when assessing the exceeded even the most optimistic and production opportunities.
Groups growth prospects, I should also of expectations just five years ago.
Whilst With this second phase largely completed, be clear on two points.
the global LNG market remains relatively the Groups plans for future growth are immature, accounting for the delivery First, the Group has an effective balance underpinned by the growing strength of the of around 7% of gas volumes worldwide, between its OECD and non-OECD investments, reserves and resources base and the quality it is expanding rapidly and BG Group is one and indeed several of its non-OECD of the opportunity set it has assembled of the leading companies in its development.
investments are in countries that have long in recent years.
The Group has now come Already the largest LNG importer by volume offered an investment environment just as full circle, and its focus is returning to stable as that in Western Europe or North in the USA, the Group has sufficient exibility implementation priorities.
That is not of supply to meet the needs of both contract America.
The strategy and future prospects to say that additional opportunities will section on page 10 provides further detail customers and spot purchasers in European be overlooked.
It does mean, and Asian markets.
of BG Groups global growth opportunities.
however, that the Group has already secured Second, whilst the Groups portfolio has within its portfolio the opportunities and Governance and Corporate Responsibility projects that will meet its ambition to deliver broadened, it has intensified its efforts Some of the worlds most significant another decade of strong growth.
hydrocarbon reserves are located in regions to manage the consequent challenges.
For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p04-06 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 17 3 08 18:28 Page 6 Directors Report Business Review 6 Chairmans statement continued BG Group combines the highest standards any time see page 129 for further details.
of corporate governance with a robust With the benets of online navigation and assessment of operational risk and a rigorous with access to broadband now widespread focus on security, safety and asset integrity.
I hope these changes will enable a better In all aspects, the Group is guided by its understanding of the Groups activities Business Principles, which set out core and ambitions whilst minimising the values and behaviours.
environmental and cost impact associated In the Boards view, a commitment to putting with a high number of printed publications.
the Business Principles into practice is the The Board best foundation for the creation of enduring We welcome Dr John Hood, the shareholder value.
BG Groups long-term Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford, prospects depend on positive and sustainable who joined our Board in April 2007.
The relationships with governments, partners, Groups Deputy Chief Executive, William neighbouring communities and employees.
Friedrich, announced his retirement from Those relationships are underpinned by a the Board in December.
He joined the Group commitment to work responsibly at all times, 12 years ago, and was one of the architects as well as by strategies that seek to align the of the two highly successful demergers that Groups long-term objectives with the followed in 1997 and 2000.
He leaves with aspirations of its key stakeholders.
More our thanks and best wishes for the future.
details on our approach to Corporate Responsibility can be found on page 38.
Finally, I would like to thank the people of BG Group.
As the industry becomes ever I am pleased by the many examples of more complex and the pace of change Business Principles put into practice that are accelerates, the Groups continued success entered for the Groups annual Chairmans is testament to their professionalism, Awards.
The Group is also increasingly dedication and passion.
focused on the contribution its businesses can make to sustainable social, economic and environmental development in the countries in which they operate.
This will be a theme to which I expect to return in future years.
Annual Report and Accounts online Sir Robert Wilson In common with many companies, BG Group is Chairman actively seeking ways to reduce its use of paper in regular communications.
Last year, I wrote to shareholders explaining that the Group intended to take advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, which permits companies to communicate with shareholders electronically via their websites.
Therefore, this year, printed copies of this Report have only been sent to new shareholders and to those shareholders who specically requested a paper copy.
In line with the new electronic communications regime, our Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual General Meeting can now be obtained online by accessing the BG Group website www.
com ara, and these will remain there throughout the year.
Shareholders may request a printed copy of the Report at www.
