2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Chairmans statement This is the first annual report following our merger with the Second Alliance Trust.
The merger was the natural outcome of a working arrangement put in place decades ago by our predecessors.
It took an enormous amount of time and effort during the first half of the year but we are already seeing the benefits of the simpler structure.
Over the past year, on a total return basis, your Companys shares returned 7.5%, the share price increased 4.7% and with the benefit of the merger with the Second Alliance Trust the net asset value increased by 39%.
In March the Directors declared a third interim dividend of 1.95p per share.
This will be the last dividend payable for the financial year ending 31 January 2007 and, taken together with previous interim dividends, makes a total for the year of 7.575p per share, an increase of 0.225p.
This is the 40th consecutive increase in the annual dividend.
Past year and outlook One of the key differences of the Alliance Trust is that we employ our own staff to manage your assets.
We are seeking to make the most of their talents and expertise by creating additional specialist funds and this year we launched two funds managed by our team in Hong Kong.
Developing these funds will benefit shareholders by spreading the costs of management over a wider pool of assets and also by generating additional income in the form of fees which will benefit the Trust.
Another difference is the wide range of asset classes in which we can and do invest.
Having the freedom to move into different investment areas enables us to manage the risks and rewards of our investment in order that we best achieve our objective.
Over the year we have continued to invest in areas outside of listed equity such as private equity, property and our financial services subsidiaries.
Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 3 During the year the Trust has added to its core investment used it.
Our investment in our subsidiary businesses is skills with the acquisition of the private equity firm Albany intended over time to produce a return on the capital Ventures.
Its executive directors have been known to us for invested and also an increasing revenue stream, both of which many years and the Trust was already an investor in one of its will benefit shareholders of the Trust.
We believe that having our own skills in private equity, whether we choose to invest directly, with others or through Board Matters funds, will be an important contributor to performance over Sheila Ruckley retired as a Director following the merger.
She had served on the Board since 2000, and during her We have also increased our direct investment in property with 18 year career with the Alliance held many important the purchase of several commercial properties.
We continue positions including Company Secretary and Corporate to invest with care given current valuations.
Alan Young, who had been Investment Director of the Company since 1992, retired in September.
Despite views that the world was at a dangerous crossroads, I would like to thank them both for their commitment to the from both a political and economic standpoint, markets Company over many years and to record our appreciation for continued to rise.
Several factors are behind this including their significant contribution to its development and success.
the pressure of increased savings in Asian and energy producing countries, strong corporate cash flows driving I am pleased to report that Janet Pope was appointed a market activity, cheap finance, M&A activity by private equity Director in November 2006 and as Chief Executive of Alliance firms and the resilience of the US consumer.
She brings 25 years experience of banking both background, our stance has been more risk averse than that in the United Kingdom and overseas, most recently with of some others and we reduced our exposure to equity Visa.
Katherine Garrett-Cox has been appointed as Chief markets and maintained a cash holding.
This has impacted Investment Officer and will join the Board in May this year.
on our performance relative to our peers who were more Katherine joins us from Morley where she was also Chief positive in their outlook and geared their portfolios thereby Investment Officer and her breadth of investment experience benefiting from the markets continued rise.
Both appointments fall to be approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting and We continue to be cautious about the coming year as the risks fuller biographical details of both directors are set out of higher interest rates, a sharper than expected slowdown in elsewhere in this report at page 33. the US and increased geopolitical instability have not lessened.
In the early months, however, these are likely to be balanced William Jack, who has been a non-executive director since by continued M&A activity.
2000, retires at the close of this years AGM due to the pressure of his other commitments.
We are grateful to William We recognise the importance to shareholders of receiving for his service to the Company during his time in office and a real return on their investment and we are aligning our I would like to express my appreciation of his counsel and investment approach to achieve an increase in the value of our knowledge of the wider financial services industry which he shares in excess of inflation each year.
Going forward we will brought to our debates.
He is also the Senior Independent measure our performance against the UK Retail Prices Index.
Director and the Board has elected Christopher Masters, who We have continued to invest in our staff by broadening our joined the Board in 2002, to fill that role.
skill base over this year but maintain a prudent approach to costs and, as explained, look to find ways of spreading those Annual General Meeting costs to the benefit of our shareholders.
Overall our aim remains to deliver real growth over the longer term coupled with a growing dividend.
In addition to Alliance Trust Savings Group the usual business of the annual meeting, we are proposing In the past 12 months the Alliance Trust Savings Group has changes to the incentive arrangements which are described increased the number of its customers which now stands at in the notice of meeting and which are designed to reinforce over 44,000, has put in place a new IT infrastructure and has this aim.
Fuller details are set out in the notice of meeting.
launched an online dealing service.
The introduction of the This year the AGM is being held at the Hilton Hotel new computer platform in April last year was not seamless overlooking the Tay and, as always, I look forward to seeing and caused us to fall below our normally high standards of many of you at the AGM.
We have made strenuous efforts to remedy this, and it did lay the foundation for the smooth introduction in November of the online dealing service which has been extremely positively received by those who have
