Chairmans Review DON ARGUS, CHAIRMAN It is comforting to see the strategic direction of a company delivering on its objectives.
The current fiscal reporting period With our market capitalisation at has delivered another outstanding result.
US$165 billion at 30 June and a large-scale Our underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were capital return program, total shareholder US$20.1 billion, our net operating cash flows increased to US$15.6 billion and our total dividend payment for the year returns for the year continued to break is 47 US cents a share, reflecting the eleventh consecutive records.
The strength of our strategy increase in our dividend.
We have not moved away from our is in the balance between optimising progressive dividend policy: rather we have rebased the dividend current conditions and progressing to reflect our confidence in the insatiability of the demand for commodities over the medium term.
our pipeline of next generation high With our market capitalisation at US$165 billion at 30 June and growth opportunities.
a large-scale capital return program, total shareholder returns for the year continued to break records.
High prices across our range of commodities once again played a significant role in our financial results.
Like our market valuation, we have little control over commodity prices, which are largely a function of a tight global supply situation.
What we can control is our response to the continually increasing demand for the commodities we produce and the way we plan to meet that demand into the future to enhance the value of the Company for our shareholders.
We have to be careful that we do not have a myopic concentration on the short term.
The strength of our strategy is in the balance between optimising current conditions and progressing our pipeline of next generation high growth opportunities.
Never before has the industry been in a position where planning to ensure we maintain our share of growing markets into the future has been so important.
6 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 While shareholder value is our primary driver, every decision the Board makes takes into account the needs and expectations of all our stakeholders: customers, resource owners, communities and governments, partners, suppliers and our employees.
Essentially, our strategy is to ensure we have a suite of long-life, Corporate Governance low-cost assets, diversified by geography and commodity, that While the board of any company must ensure that a robust can be expanded and that are largely export-oriented.
The growth governance structure is in place, my fellow Directors and opportunities implicit in this strategy mean we can move quickly to I are equally committed to fostering a culture throughout the increase capacity from an existing operation when we determine Company that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, that global demand warrants such an expansion.
personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
Our approach to governance is predicated on the belief that there At the end of the last financial year, we were conducting final is a link between high-quality governance and the creation assessments what we call feasibility stage for 15 major projects of shareholder value.
and, during the year, we approved the development of three major projects.
We have many more high-growth opportunities The Companys culture will always be formed not only by the in the pipeline.
Directors, but more significantly, the Chief Executive Officer.
We have been fortunate in having an outstanding Chief Executive We are a value-driven Company whose Board makes its decisions Officer in Chip Goodyear for the past five years.
Through his for the long term.
leadership, Chip has driven financial and operational success While shareholder value is our primary driver, every decision within a strong culture of teamwork and integrity.
On behalf of the Board makes takes into account the needs and expectations my fellow Directors I want to thank him for a tremendous effort of all our stakeholders: customers, resource owners, communities and wish him and his family well for their future.
and governments, partners, suppliers and our employees.
I also want to welcome Marius Kloppers as our new Chief Executive Corporate Responsibility Officer on 1 October 2007.
The Board conducted an extensive global search to ensure we identified the best possible candidate To ensure we continue to meet growing global demand for to succeed Chip.
It is immensely satisfying that such an exhaustive commodities requires that, as well as progressing our existing process made clear to us that the best person for the role was growth opportunities, we actively compete for access to one of our existing executives, demonstrating the success of undeveloped resources in regions throughout the world.
I am very much looking forward In many cases, the governments and communities of these to working with Marius and watching him make his mark on this regions recognise that the development of their natural resources outstanding Company.
with the right choice of industry partner can dramatically improve their economic and social development.
With changes to our senior management team during the year and Chips retirement at the end of this calendar year, the Boards The best way we can demonstrate why BHP Billiton should be renewal process continues.
This year, Dr David Brink is retiring.
the partner of choice to develop these resources, many of which He brought to the Board deep operating experience in the are in regions such as Africa, Asia and the former Soviet Union, mining sector and an intimate knowledge of the South African is to point to our track record of benefiting the communities and environment, and we will miss his insightful contributions.
environments in which we operate.
We have numerous examples On behalf of the Board I extend our sincere appreciation and wish that demonstrate our absolute commitment to improving the him well in the future.
We continue to assess the performance of quality of life of the communities we work with and to minimising each Board member as well as the collective effort of the Board harm to the environment.
This Review touches on some of that as a whole and we engage external search firms to locate people work but I strongly encourage you to visit the sustainable with specific skills in the areas of finance, mining and project development area of our website at www.
com to management, to ensure that renewal of Board membership is read about some of the programs we run throughout the world.
undertaken in an orderly manner.
I thank all my fellow Directors Our journey in response to the global issue of climate change for their contribution and commitment through the year.
reached a new milestone during this year with our implementation of new aggressive targets to reduce the intensity of gas emissions Outlook and energy usage at our operations.
Most significantly, our revised The global economy remains robust, driven by solid activity in Asia policy recognises that real behavioural change is required by our and Europe.
Growth in Chinas demand for raw materials should employees, our customers and our communities and we have continue and place ongoing pressure on the global supply of pledged to support that process.
Structurally higher cost sources of supply will be As you are aware, we have been active in this space for a number required and this, combined with higher energy prices, is likely to of years and we are proud of what we have achieved to date.
have a flow-on effect to commodity prices.
Over the medium term We have directed and funded projects to identify low emissions we expect commodity prices to move towards long-run marginal technologies for energy generation, participated in the costs of supply but, in the interim, prices are likely to stay high development of national climate change policies, examined relative to historical levels, albeit with increased volatility.
the strategic impacts of climate change on our businesses and exceeded our targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including a 10 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity from 1995 to 2000 and a further five per cent reduction by 2007.
Don Argus BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 7
