Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Underwriting focused on risk and r Chairmans statement eturn Roger Taylor Chairman Additionally the Board has authorised a buy back Board programme for our ordinary shares in order to continue The Board welcomed Mr Marty Feinstein as a new to efficiently manage our equity capital.
This, non-executive Director in December 2007.
Marty, combined with the return of 120.4 million of capital as one of our US directors, brings considerable at the end of the year and the special dividend insurance industry experience to our deliberations, announced this time last year, delivers on our after a distinguished career at Farmers Group Inc. commitment to actively manage our capital.
where he was CEO for 10 years.
Strategic progress Tom Kemp, another of our US directors, retired from The Board has continued to review the Groups Amlin at our AGM in May 2007 after serving as a strategic direction to ensure that Amlin builds upon director since 1998.
We received excellent advice its strengths and long term potential.
We strive to from him throughout this period and thank him for lead change in the London market with a view to his service to the company.
enhancing the service that our clients receive and our appeal to them.
Good progress has been made.
At our AGM in April 2008, Roger Joslin will be A solid foundation has also been built at our new retiring.
Roger, who was previously Vice Chairman The Group has attained a Bermudian operation.
While only modest growth at State Farm, joined the Board in 2001 and has was achieved in the year, in a competitive market, taken a keen interest in the development of Amlin market leadership position and with an expanded team of underwriters, we look to the for which we are very grateful.
strength that is so valuable in future with some confidence.
Tony Holt, Amlins Underwriting Director is currently challenging times.
With Amlins core business in a good position we absent from work undergoing medical treatment.
have examined the changing face of distribution in We wish him a speedy return.
In his absence Simon our markets during the year.
The UK, global Beale and Brian Carpenter have jointly assumed his I am delighted to report another year of excellent specialty and reinsurance markets are all evolving Group Underwriting Director role.
The financial results are rapidly and we intend to be alert to the opportunities exceptional, a product of strong underwriting and that are presented to us.
The Amlin team investment returns.
The last few years have A record breaking profit has been produced in represented a period of sustained delivery, with our During the year we purchased a UK insurance 2007.
The continued effort of Charles Philipps, his weighted average return on equity since 2002 now operation, Allied Cedar, with the intention of management colleagues and all our employees has standing at 32.0%.
strengthening our UK property offering.
We also set allowed the Group to attain a market leadership up Amlin Singapore to bring a local presence to the position and strength that is so valuable in Importantly for our business the senior underwriting thriving Asia-Pacific region with a view to writing challenging times.
I would like to thank them all for team has again remained stable.
Their exceptional energy and property business.
their skill and hard work.
underwriting skills have delivered the performance of recent years and places us in an excellent Outlook position to continue this into a more difficult Undoubtedly, rating conditions became more underwriting climate.
challenging in 2007 and into the start of 2008.
Nevertheless, our Non-marine, Marine and The strength of our business is now recognised by Bermuda businesses continue to enjoy good strong financial ratings from all of the rating market conditions with the potential to deliver agencies that we deal with.
During the year AM Best acceptable returns to shareholders.
However, we upgraded both the Syndicate and Amlin Bermuda have reduced our risk appetite as margins have fallen.
This places the Syndicate Roger Taylor as the only current Lloyds operation with this higher In our other two areas of underwriting we believe Chairman rating and Amlin Bermuda at a level that is ahead of that we are towards the trough of the cycle.
The many of its Class of 2005 Bermudian peers.
aviation market has been disappointing, with competitors seemingly happy to expand their Results and dividend underwriting with little prospect of an adequate Our profit before tax of 445.0 million return for the risk assumed.
The UK commercial 2006: 342.7 million is a record result.
It reflects market has also been highly competitive with only strong underwriting returns, with a remarkable limited signs to date of a return to more rationale combined ratio of 63% 2006: 72% following a behaviour.
However it is increasingly likely that these second year of benign catastrophe events.
The business areas will start to turn to provide a source investment return of 6.6% across our portfolio was of future growth.
equally impressive given the volatile market environment.
Our weighting towards high grade and While conditions may now be more difficult, this is government bonds helped, together with a when we would expect our outperformance against reduction in our equity exposure in the autumn, as our peers to grow.
Our team shares a well the extent of the credit market problems began to understood underwriting philosophy that focuses become apparent.
on profitability, we are well reserved and we are constantly striving to improve our risk management The Board proposes a final dividend of 10.0 pence and management information to enable us to steer per share making total dividends declared for the a steady course.
year of 15.0 pence per share for each share in issue at the time.
This is a 25.0% increase on the 2006 ordinary dividend.
Looking forward we would expect to be able to steadily grow the dividend and deliver healthy income returns for our shareholders.
