Chairmans statement In its first year of trading as a plc the The directors are recommending a final dividend Ashmore Group has delivered strong financial of 6.7p for the year ended 30 June 2007 and, results and has enhanced further the solid subject to shareholder approval, this will be paid foundations on which the Company has been on 7 December to all shareholders who are on built since it was established in 1998. the register on 9 November.
This makes a total dividend of 9.0p for the year.
It is pleasing to be able to report a good set of results for the twelve months ended I would like to take this opportunity of thanking 30 June 2007.
Despite some periods of market Jim Pettigrew, the Groups Chief Operating and volatility which were encountered during the Financial Officer, who will be leaving Ashmore, year, the Group exceeded the financial targets for all the support he has given the Group while set at the beginning of the year and, during that he has been with us.
We wish him every time, continued to develop its brand and success in his new endeavours.
The Group also continued to The ultimate success of any investment invest in the necessary resources to support the company rests with the people who are in it future growth of the business.
and their ability to deliver the highest level of AuM increased from the level of US$20.1 billion investment performance and client service.
at the start of the financial year to stand at The results for the year demonstrate that the US$31.6 billion as at 30 June 2007, an increase team within Ashmore is of an exceptional of 57%.
The Groups net management fees rose calibre and I would like to thank each member from 78.5 million to 126.4 million, an increase of the team personally for their considerable of 61%.
The profit before tax was 131.4 million efforts and dedication.
The global financial against 103.9 million for the previous year, markets are currently experiencing another an increase of 26%.
period of volatility: I am confident that the Group will meet robustly the challenges that These results demonstrate the underlying the markets may produce.
strength of the Group founded on the twin pillars of first-rate investment performance and professional client service.
In his review, on pages 3 to 7 of this report, Mark Coombs, the Groups Chief Executive Officer, sets out the market dynamics and the vision and Michael Benson business strategy of the Group going forward.
Chairman 2 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
