Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 4 Chairmans statement Overview There are still significant long-term growth opportunities Dear Shareholder, in the mature markets of the UK, Europe and the It has been a busy year for Aviva.
I am United States, but there are other big markets emerging.
Not just in Asia, but also in central and eastern Europe.
pleased to report that the group has That, I think, is a very exciting prospect.
It will be good performed well and made great progress in for the insurance industry generally, but for Aviva in pursuit of our ambition to provide prosperity particular, because I think we understand better than and peace of mind for our customers.
most the nature of these tremendous opportunities and how to take advantage of them.
Our new group chief executive, Andrew Moss, leads a management team Dividend based on a global structure of four regions I am pleased to announce that our recommended final the UK, Europe, North America and Asia ordinary dividend is 21.10 pence per share, bringing the Pacific.
We have refocused our strategic total dividend for the year to 33.00 pence, an increase of vision as one Aviva, twice the value.
This increase This expresses our commitment to embark reflects our intention to increase the dividend on a progressive basis, while retaining capital to support upon the next stage of our development future business growth.
As a guide, we use dividend from an international group into a truly cover in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range, based on IFRS integrated, global business.
We aim to operating earnings after tax.
derive the maximum benefit from all parts of the group by sharing our resources Board developments and expertise widely and by operating Richard Harvey stepped down as group chief executive as a single organisation.
I wish him all the best for his retirement and extend the thanks of everyone at Aviva for the substantial At the same time, we achieved a robust part he played in the success of the group over the set of results for 2007 while dealing with past 15 years.
The board is delighted that Andrew Moss the floods in the UK.
We have completed has succeeded Richard, having made an impressive the integration of AmerUs in the United contribution since joining the company as group finance States and Ark Life in Ireland, and undertaken director in 2004.
We are equally pleased that Philip Scott has brought his considerable experience to the role of a cost and efficiency review in the UK.
We have also set new cost saving We welcomed Nikesh Arora to the board as an targets for our UK and European businesses independent non-executive director in July.
Our number one president of Europe, Middle East and Africa operations at Google, with responsibility for the companys business priority is to manage our existing assets in more than 25 countries.
He brings great experience effectively and efficiently, while continuing in managing international businesses, combined with to invest for growth.
cutting-edge understanding of technology, innovation and marketing.
Scott Wheway was appointed to the board as a External view new independent non-executive director with effect from The economic picture during the last months of 2007 was 5 December 2007.
Scott was most recently managing extremely volatile.
Losses on sub-prime lending in the US director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots and sparked a crisis in financial markets and share prices fell prior to that he was CEO of Tesco in Japan where as investors lost confidence.
Although major central banks he established the business and shaped the long-term have cut interest rates, an economic slowdown during strategy for the country.
Im delighted that Scott is the first half of 2008 seems likely before the markets joining us.
He brings a wealth of retail experience to begin to recover.
We are also operating in an increasingly Aviva, and in particular he has championed first rate difficult general insurance environment, with substantial customer service, putting the customer at the heart weather-related losses caused by floods in the UK, of the businesses hes worked for.
I am confident he and markets generally hardening.
will be a real asset to the Aviva board.
However, many countries around the world are During the course of the year group executive becoming richer.
People are living longer, in better health, directors Patrick Snowball and Tidjane Thiam left the and are becoming wealthier.
They want to put aside group.
I would like to thank both of them for their money for their future, and will look for a trustworthy important contribution to our strategic thinking on the provider such as Aviva.
In addition, as people become board and most recently for their leadership of our UK better off, they become more conscious of protecting and European businesses.
I would also like to pay tribute what they have.
They want to insure their motor cars to Richard Whitaker, who has retired after serving the and their homes and their property.
Again, that creates board as company secretary since 1998. business for Aviva.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5 Overview Overview Employees I thank all of our employees for their skill and dedication in helping to deliver a robust set of results.
We recognise that the longer term performance of Aviva depends on the inextricable link between motivated staff and satisfied customers.
Our people are our most important asset.
This is not empty rhetoric.
We strive constantly to make Aviva an employer of choice.
We are determined to be an ethical, civilised organisation that respects the people who work for it.
Inevitably from time to time we have to make difficult decisions affecting jobs.
Our employees have coped well with continuing uncertainty following the introduction of our regional structure and the new targets for reducing costs.
We are introducing a talent management programme across the whole group that will recognise each individuals particular skills and potential, with a view to matching them to the roles and career development opportunities that suit them best.
We have also introduced employee satisfaction measures into the calculation of executive pay and bonuses.
Recognition External recognition provides some reassurance that we continue to perform to high standards.
Indicators of our success include the fact that, in 2007, for the second consecutive year, Aviva was named one of The Times newspapers Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work.
We earned a bronze award for excellence in people management in India, and an international award for our leadership in managing diversity in the workplace.
Besides accolades specifically for employment practices, we continue to win plaudits across our business operations.
These range from awards as best general insurer and best property manager to endorsements for product innovation, e-business, socially responsible investment, online financial education and online communications.
Outlook We look forward to building on Avivas achievements as we work towards our new vision of one Aviva, twice the value.
I know what talented people we have working in the groups businesses around the world.
Thanks to them, we have made great progress.
With their support, Aviva will continue to serve its customers well and flourish into the future.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chairman
