The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 3 Chairmans Statement Richard Brewster I am pleased to report a significant increase in both the net asset value and dividend over the year to 31 October 2007.
The net asset value per share grew by 13% and the total dividend per share has been increased 8% above last years distribution.
This performance reflects another year of surpassing the return on our benchmark and growing the dividend at a rate considerably faster than the rise in the Retail Prices Index.
At one point the dollar hit $2.10 to the pound: sadly Performance this weakness has reduced the return to the Company from our Investment markets, both equities and bonds, have experienced holdings of US equities.
However, it is very pleasing to see a strong one of their most turbulent periods for some years.
In March and performance from our US investments relative to the US stock August share and bond prices fell sharply.
Although the markets market indices.
For three years now we have avoided the very recovered from each of these setbacks confidence has been largest stocks and sought to add value by investing in smaller, fragile and in general central banks have had to intervene to try more nimble companies.
This year we finally captured a strong to maintain order.
The final few months of our year have seen return on these investments.
Our limited exposure to US financials very unusual conditions in credit markets which have spilled over helped to avoid the worst performing sectors of the market, while and impacted equity markets in general and bank shares in solid profits were made in oil and gas related companies.
Against this background it is creditable that the allocated marginally more investment to the region over the year Manager has been to able grow your Companys net asset value but our concern that further depreciation of the US dollar could by 13% which exceeds the benchmark by 2.5%.
Therefore for dilute returns stopped us making a more major commitment.
the second consecutive year a performance fee was awarded.
This is a good example of how the Managers rewards are being European markets shrugged off a dull economic background and directly matched to the best interests of shareholders.
once again posted very good returns.
Underlying the overall performance there was quite a disparity by country and sector.
An investment theme that has developed this year has been a Germany comfortably outperformed all others, as tax reforms and renewed preference among investors for growth stocks, which outsourcing to Eastern Europe had positive effects.
By sector, are perceived to offer a safer passage through the expected financials were the weakest, as they have been globally, but the slowdown in economic activity.
Our value based investment style outstanding sector was telecommunications.
Improving balance should have struggled in this environment but an increased sheets, the take-up of broadband services and the continued degree of pragmatism by our Manager and the avoidance of the growth in mobile data have driven strong upgrades of profits for worst performing sectors have produced a solid performance in integrated telecommunication companies.
Our own performance most regions: most notably in the US and Pacific ex Japan this year in Europe has been relatively disappointing but it comes where stock picking has been well rewarded, delivering returns after exceeding the benchmark consistently in recent years.
of 8.3% and 12.9% above their respective market indices.
Rather than picking bad investments, we have missed out on the Despite our value based investment approach not being the best performing investments such as the telecom companies favoured style in most markets, many of our positions reached a mentioned previously.
level where valuations appeared full and profit upgrades were The UK portfolio remained our largest but over the year we sold unlikely.
As a result, sales exceeded purchases in the portfolio just under 22m of investments there.
The UK stock market is over the year.
Overall the gearing has been reduced to end the one of the most global and it was the international oil and year at 2%.
The strong run in markets to the end of October mining companies listed in London that performed exceptionally prompted us to reduce investments, particularly in the UK and well over the year.
Domestically, the UK consumer has been Europe.
Our outlook has become increasingly cautious, as the struggling with high real interest rates and an increasing tax liquidity crisis crippled financial markets and the risk that it would burden, resulting in consumer spending being dull at best.
Almost spill over into the real economy increased.
all the consumer-facing companies have been poor performers, Given the problems created in the US by very high levels of default especially house builders and high street retailers.
The banking amongst sub-prime borrowers, it is impressive how well the US sector has been equally tough, with the very public troubles at stock market has performed.
Technology and other companies Northern Rock leading to sharp falls of mortgage bank share with considerable overseas sales have been the best performing prices.
Few sectors have performed well in the UK and this investments, being beneficiaries of a continued weakness in the narrow breadth in the market has meant fewer opportunities for 4 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 stock picking.
For these reasons we have favoured redistributing Annual General Meeting assets and increasing our weighting overseas.
The AGM this year will again be held at the Institute of Chartered Accountants Hall on Wednesday 27 February 2008 at 12 noon.
Japan has experienced yet another disappointing year where the This year we have some additional resolutions to bring the early hope of improving economic development fizzled out.
The Companys Articles of Association into line with the requirements domestic economy continues to show areas of strength but the of the Companies Act 2006.
The notice of the meeting and a consumer is still reluctant to borrow and increase spending.
As map showing the location appears on pages 57 to 59.
As usual the country has none of the sub-prime mortgage or financial our manager, Alex Crooke, and his team will be making a liquidity issues affecting western markets, it was very presentation with regard to investment and all shareholders are disappointing to see the Japanese stock market fall in line with most welcome to attend.
others during the autumn setback, and overall it was consistently the poorest performer of the main markets.
VAT on Fund Management Fees In June the European Court of Justice delivered a favourable Revenue and Dividends decision in a long running case on whether management fees paid For the fourth consecutive year the growth in the Companys by Investment Trust companies should be exempt from VAT.
Since revenue return per ordinary share has exceeded 10%.
Dividend then HM Revenue & Customs HMRC has confirmed that it will be growth has again been strong in all our major investment regions.
withdrawing from defending the appeal and that all future fund Profit growth is being translated into higher dividend payments to management fees will be exempt from VAT.
shareholders, as managements recognise a balance in terms of returning excess profits via share buybacks and dividends.
There has As a result, individual Trusts will be able to reclaim some of the also been an increase in special dividends, where companies make VAT paid in previous years.
However, HMRC has indicated that it exceptional payments to shareholders.
As these tend to be one-off may take a year or more before refunds are agreed.
We have by their nature, we do not factor them into the calculations when included in these accounts only the amount which we estimate is setting the Companys level of distributions.
Asian companies have most likely to be recovered.
Further details can be found in note 5 been most notable for their increase in dividends and the greater to the accounts on page 43. investment we have made in this region has benefited the revenue Outlook return this year.
Although the profit outlook is more clouded next Share prices have risen to record levels in many markets this year year, we expect that, with companies distributing on average 40% and in western markets have approached the peaks last seen in of their profit as dividends, there will be scope for this payout ratio 1999.
This resilience of markets in the face of worsening to increase.
We anticipate next years growth in revenue to return economic projections is encouraging but we must be aware that to the 5% 10% range, compared to this years 11.7%.
investor confidence can be brittle.
The credit crunch currently Given the healthy revenue return this year and a positive outlook affecting year end liquidity is requiring unprecedented central for next year, we are recommending a final dividend of 2.60p, bank cooperation to restart the basic function of interbank making a total of 10.24p, an increase of 8% for the year.
The lending and it is not clear when the banking industry might Company has now increased the annual distribution to return to business as usual.
As in recent years the focus remains shareholders for 41 consecutive years and dividends have on the US consumer, as spending and borrowing by Americans comfortably outstripped the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI still accounts for a significant proportion of global trade.
It is over the last ten years.
The impact of the current lower level of inconceivable that the growth in China and emerging markets gearing will mildly reduce the coming years revenue returns but will not be impacted should US demand falter.
we still expect some growth in 2008.
At this early stage, we are We have reduced the Companys gearing to a neutral position forecasting a minimum rise in the total dividend per share of a which provides a good vantage point to access future opportunities.
Our distribution of assets is also fairly conservative though a threat Board Changes but also an opportunity would be a significant weakening in the James Morley will not be seeking re-election at the AGM having exchange rate of sterling.
With half our assets overseas we will joined the Board in 1994 and having served as Chairman of the benefit from a downward move in sterling and we could take Audit Committee for the last three years.
It is always a shame further advantage were we to move more assets abroad.
The when a director, who has been such a contributor over, so many degree of our success would depend very much on our timing.
years, decides to step down.
We will miss James incisive Share valuations, at least outside emerging markets, are not questions and financial wisdom and on behalf of the Board we stretched but investors lack confidence in the forward projections wish him every success in the future.
Lower interest rates and a normalised We are fortunate to have on the Board David Thomas, who has banking environment are minimum requirements in order to huge experience in the financial world as an actuary and restore confidence.
As always in volatile and uncertain times investment professional.
David has served on the Audit investment opportunities will occur and our value based Committee for three years and has agreed to succeed James as investment process is ideally suited to accessing these turning its Chairman following the AGM.
A rigorous investment process combined with a flexible gearing position means your Company is well positioned to It is the Boards intention to commence a search during the year capitalise on any change in market sentiment.
for a new director to maintain a good balance of skills within the Board for the future.
