Chairmans statement The group has had another tremendous year and we are delighted to announce record profits of 138.5m.
Jonathan Agnew Chairman MGA on behalf of both our syndicates at Lloyds and Overall our domestic insurance company, Beazley Insurance The board is delighted to announce record profits before Company, Inc. BICI.
This platform enables us to access tax of 138.5m 2006: 86.8m.
We are confident that business that would not traditionally have come to the our controlled approach to risk-taking leaves us well Lloyds market.
To supplement the existing business, we placed to build on this result going forward.
acquired in February 2007 an MGA in Chicago called Underwriting performance Sapphire Blue, which writes professional and general We continued to grow the business during 2007.
Gross liability insurance for long-term care institutions.
premiums written increased by 5% to 780.5m.
This During 2007 $64.3m was written directly to our Lloyds was achieved in part through increasing the share of syndicates and $110.9m was generated by BICI, the the premiums we write through the combined Lloyds admitted market insurance company.
During the year syndicates from 78% to 81% in 2007.
The US business the US operations extended their product range from also increased its gross premiums contribution professional and management liability insurance to signicantly to $175.2m 2006: $68.9m.
The groups net premiums written rose by 14% to In April 2007 we increased the capital of BICI by a further 652.2m in 2007, mainly as a result of a change in the $45m, bringing the total capital retained to $105m.
In way the group buys reinsurance.
In 2007, we increased November A. M. Best upgraded the companys financial the groups risk appetite to reect the stronger capital strength rating from Ato A.
This rating improvement base by buying less reinsurance.
For example, in the should provide further support for the development of specialty lines business reinsurance spend fell from the underwriting platform in the US.
Combined ratio Market conditions The groups combined ratio remained stable at 88%.
On average, the rate charged for business we renewed The claims ratio fell to 50% 2006: 53%.
Rating levels we released 64.1m 2006: 31.0m of the 2006 year generally still compare favourably to the early 2000s.
These reductions have been from The specialty lines business performed better than reserves in both catastrophe exposed businesses initially expected with decreases in rates of only 5%.
The absence of major Our shorter tail property insurance businesses enjoyed catastrophes enabled us to release 30.7m from our a reasonable start to the year but saw rates come property, reinsurance, and marine accounts, while in under pressure in the second half.
Property reinsurance specialty lines we were able to release 33.4m due to rates eased but not to the same extent as the the continuing positive development of claims experience.
We are hopeful that this positive claims development US business development will continue in 2008.
The US business continued to gather momentum during We continue to invest in our US platform, which was 2007.
Premiums written by US-based underwriters were one of the factors which increased our expenses ratio $175.2m more than two and a half times the $68.9m by 3% to 38%.
During 2007 US employee numbers written in 2006.
The business was established in 2005, rose by 42 to 153. writing business through our managing general agent 6 www.
com Investment performance Dividend Investment markets were particularly difficult in 2007 The board proposes a final dividend of 4.0p per share with the fallout from the global credit crisis beginning bringing the full year dividend to 6.0p per share 2006: in the summer followed by volatile equity markets in the 4.8p.
In addition, the board proposes a special dividend second half of the year.
In spite of this instability, we of 4.0p per share.
The final dividend and the special were able to record increased investment income of dividend will be paid on 9 May 2008 to shareholders 64.9m 2006: 48.3m a return of 4.9% 2006: registered on 18 April 2008.
We were impacted only marginally by the subManagement update prime mortgage bonds mark down holding around Since August 2007, Andrew Beazley has been 1.0% of our investments in these assets none of which undergoing medical treatment.
This is progressing well were collateralised debt obligations CDOs and all are and has only reduced to a limited extent his day to day AAArated.
The portfolio comprises mainly xed income involvement in the business.
As and when required bonds and cash, with less than 10% committed to other during this period, Nicholas Furlonge, co-founder of investments such as equities and hedge funds.
Beazley, has taken on Andrews responsibilities as Chief Capital Executive and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
The groups capital position remains strong.
In the Johnny Rowell has taken over from Andrew as chairman finance directors section of this report, he describes of the groups underwriting committee.
This committee the composition of the capital base a mixture of looks at all underwriting related matters within the group.
shareholders funds, long-term debt and short-term The specialty lines division is undergoing a development banking facilities.
The last of these, a syndicated 50m of management structure that includes the formation of short-term letter of credit facility, was recently renewed.
a new division, the political and contingency group PCG.
The capital is used to support Lloyds underwriting, the Conclusion US insurance company, and to fund acquisitions of We generated record profits in 2007 a testament small insurance companies and MGAs which t to the skill and hard work of our people.
We continue to strategically with the business.
search out opportunities for growth and profit through In November 2007, following a review of the groups carefully targeted initiatives, particularly in relation to the capital position, the board authorised a rolling on-market US operations.
We monitor developments closely in all share buyback programme to return excess capital to our markets and will respond to the market cycle in the shareholders.
We announced that 5% of our shares would same disciplined fashion as we have done in the past.
be bought back and held as treasury shares within the group.
At the end of 2007, 5.1m of shares representing Jonathan Agnew 0.9% of our share capital had been repurchased.
Chairman We were pleased that Standard & Poors S&P upgraded our enterprise risk management ERM rating to strong.
This places us in the top 14% of insurers and reinsurance companies worldwide.
A strong ERM culture throughout the organisation is a key asset to take us through the market cycle.
