BlueBay Asset Management plc 06 Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement Hans-Jrg Rudloff Chairman Prudent risk management combined with robust infrastructure have been essential building blocks of the business.
"A year of sustained growth This is the first Annual Report that BlueBay Asset and stock-picking skills, this was a difficult environment in which to Management plc BlueBay or the ""Company"" has issued generate outstanding performance."
Nevertheless, fund performance since its admission to the Official List of the UK Listing during the year was solid resulting in a blended return on the Authority Listing in November 2006.
Having been the long short products of 10.4% net of fees.
All of the flagship longChairman of the Company since its foundation in 2001, it is only funds continued to outperform their benchmarks.
particularly gratifying to see the achievement of our long-held ambition of a flotation on the London Stock Exchange just From its inception in 2001, prudent risk management combined with five years after the Company was founded.
robust infrastructure have been essential building blocks of the business.
These have continued to evolve as the business has grown It gives me great pleasure to report that this has been another year and a number of new initiatives were undertaken during the year of sustained growth with an increase in Assets under Management to 30 June 2007.
In the early part of 2007, we commissioned KPMG AuM of 89% to $13.1 billion, an increase in total fee revenues to carry out an extensive review of the Companys internal control of 44% to 109.2 million and an increase in after tax profits of 63% environment to ensure that it would be able to meet the demanding to 35.2 million.
Fully diluted earnings per share increased from requirements of the Audit and Assurance Faculty 01 06 AAF 15.8 pence per share in the year to 30 June 2006 to 18.5 pence 01 06 external reporting standards applicable to asset per share in the financial year to 30 June 2007. management businesses in the UK.
We will be proposing a dividend of 6.0 pence per share payable At the time of Listing a number of changes took place on the Board.
to all shareholders on the register at 26 October 2007 to be paid The representatives of our institutional shareholders, Roger Jenkins on 23 November 2007.
Barclays Bank PLC and Mike Militello Shinsei Bank, Limited both resigned.
We would like to thank them both for their continual It is encouraging that the growth has been broadly based across all support of the Company during the early part of its development.
Existing funds continued to grow while new funds were We welcomed two new independent non-executive directors, launched in each of the products: in long short funds, the BlueBay Terence Eccles and Tom Cross Brown as well as Nick Williams and Multi-Strategy Fund and the BlueBay Multi-Strategy PLUS Fund Alex Khein, who joined the Board as executive directors.
James BlueBay Multi-Strategy Funds : in long-only funds, the BlueBay Brace, the Companys General Counsel has been of invaluable Emerging Market Select Bond Fund and in structured products, assistance to the Board in meeting its legal and regulatory the BlueBay Emerging Market Opportunity Fund.
In terms of responsibilities as a public company and, in recognition of his geographical distribution, Europe continues to be the principal contribution, he was appointed Company Secretary from July 2007. source of assets representing just over two thirds of the assets raised.
The share represented by Asia and Australia has increased Since the end of the financial year, financial markets in general to 19% at the end of the year from 13% a year earlier.
and credit markets in particular have been severely affected by the resurfacing of concerns about sub-prime mortgages in the US, Throughout most of the year, credit spreads were at historically low leading to the liquidity crisis which has prompted unprecedented levels with low levels of index volatility and little credit differentiation.
For firms such as BlueBay with its strong credit analysis capabilities BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 07 levels of central bank intervention.
In the short term, this will have an impact on all the participants in the financial markets, BlueBay included.
However, through its prudent risk management, BlueBay has avoided exposing the long side of any of its funds to sub-prime mortgages either directly or through derivative structures which repackage debts backed by sub-prime mortgages.
It should therefore be well placed to weather the current turmoil in the financial markets.
In the longer term, the Board remains optimistic about the two secular opportunities which led to BlueBays foundation, namely the creation of a single unified market for European corporate debt following the introduction of the Euro and the growth and maturing of the markets for global emerging market debt.
The Company would not have been able to achieve its ambitions without the hard work of its employees.
To them we owe our thanks for their enthusiasm, commitment and unswerving dedication to achieving the Companys objectives.
