Chairmans Statement For most of the year, markets were supported by strong corporate earnings and dividend growth, together with ongoing mergers and acquisitions activity.
Markets also benefited from signs that there was unlikely to be a severe economic slowdown in the US.
However, in the summer months, increasing concerns over the US sub-prime mortgage debt market caused panic in credit markets and a sharp increase in market volatility, particularly amongst financial stocks.
It is already clear that the liquidity crisis which followed is likely to have an adverse effect on growth forecasts, as well as hampering activity by hedge fund and private equity investors who typically rely on borrowings to fund investments.
The best returns within the portfolio came from the Pacific ex Japan and Europe ex UK regions which have both benefited from strong economic growth W RE Thomson Chairman and good corporate earnings.
Led by China, the Pacific region is becoming a key contributor to global growth.
Global stockmarkets made good progress during As previously announced, a new manager of the UK the year ended 30 September 2007 with the result portfolio was appointed from within the F&C UK that the Company and its composite benchmark equities team during the year, and this was followed index have both delivered five consecutive years of by a period of improved performance.
towards the end of the year, performance suffered in The Companys net asset value total return for the the wake of the liquidity crisis as the Company has year was 9.7 per cent.
The share price total return significant exposure to financial stocks, including was 10.5 per cent and the Company is again in a Northern Rock, which are an important contributor position of being able to increase its dividend, with to the revenue account.
Notwithstanding the the Board recommending an increase of 4.0 per underperformance for the year, the Board believes cent for the year.
that the change in UK manager will result in improved performance in this important part of the The net asset value total return of 9.7 per cent overall portfolio.
compares with a total return of 12.5 per cent from the Companys composite benchmark index of Although outperforming its composite benchmark 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per cent index, returns from the corporate bond portfolio FTSE World ex UK Index.
Overseas stock selection, were less than equities during the year, principally as asset allocation, gearing and share buy backs all a result of fears of defaults caused by the liquidity made positive contributions during the year.
One of the main and continuing reasons for However, these gains were more than offset by the having an exposure to corporate bonds is the performance in the UK and the returns from the benefit this provides to the Companys revenue corporate bond portfolio.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 Chairmans Statement continued The following table provides a breakdown of the 2007, the yield of 4.1 per cent was some 41 per estimated contributions to the net asset value total cent higher than the FTSE All-Share Index yield of return for the year.
Gearing Attribution of Return At the end of the year the Companys gearing, net Market benchmark return 12.5% of cash, was 15.0 per cent, which compares with 20.3 per cent as at 30 September 2006.
The level of Stock selection gearing was represented by 8.4 per cent in equities UK equities 2.1 and 6.6 per cent in corporate bonds.
As a reflection UK equities cost of portfolio of their cautious view on markets, the Managers re-alignment 0.4 reduced the level of net gearing during the year by Overseas equities 0.1 raising cash from the UK and Japanese portfolios.
Regional asset allocation 0.4 The Companys borrowings are represented by two Corporate bonds 0.7 60 million bonds, one of which is due for Gearing cash 0.4 repayment in March 2008 and the other in 2031.
It Share buy backs 0.2 is the Boards current intention to replace in full, or Expenses 0.7 in part, the 6.625 per cent 2008 bond.
The Board has considered a number of options and currently British Assets Trust net asset value favours replacing the 2008 bond with a more flexible total return 9.7% form of borrowing.
More detailed information about the Companys Earnings and Dividends borrowings can be found in notes 11 and 12 to the The Companys revenue earnings per share for the accounts.
First, second and third interim dividends, each of 1.356p per Ordinary Share Buy Backs Share, were paid on 10 April, 6 July and 5 October During the year the Company purchased 7,500,000 2007 respectively.
shares for cancellation, equivalent to 2.4 per cent of During the year the Company continued to benefit the shares in issue as at 30 September 2006, for an from strong dividend growth from its investee aggregate consideration of 11.2 million.
These buy companies, in particular within the UK, as well as backs enhanced the net asset value by 0.5p per from the receipt of a number of special dividends.
Having reviewed the revenue outcome for the year The Company will seek to renew its share buy back and considered carefully the Companys revenue authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
forecast for the forthcoming year, the Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 1.638p Board Composition per Ordinary Share in respect of the year ended During the year, the Board conducted a detailed 30 September 2007, payable on 11 January 2008 to review of its composition.
Of the five Directors shareholders on the register at close of business on excluding the Chairman, three will have served for 14 December 2007.
This brings the total dividend in more than nine years at the time of the forthcoming respect of the year to 5.706p per Ordinary Share, an Annual General Meeting.
increase of 4.0 per cent from the previous year.
The Board considers the Companys dividend yield The Combined Code on Corporate Governance to be one of its key attractions.
As at 30 September encourages boards to have at least half of their 4 British Assets Trust plc number, excluding the chairman, with service of less VAT on Management Fees than nine years.
The Board has therefore embarked The European Court of Justice ruling in June 2007, on a process to appoint a new non-executive that investment trusts should be regarded as special Director within the next few months.
investment funds, has recently been accepted in principle by HM Revenue & Customs, although a In addition, I will retire at the Annual General number of legal and procedural matters remain to Meeting in 2009.
Plans are in hand as regards my be resolved.
As a result of this decision, succession.
management fees paid by the Company will not be subject to VAT in future.
In addition, the Company will be able to recover some of the VAT suffered in Annual General Meeting the past on management fees although at this stage The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon the amount is uncertain.
on Tuesday 18 December 2007, at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, 80 George Street, Outlook Edinburgh, and will be followed by a presentation Following the events of recent months the from the Managers.
This is a good opportunity for immediate outlook for global growth and financial shareholders to meet the Directors and Managers markets remains uncertain.
Until the full impact of and we therefore encourage you to attend.
The the liquidity crisis is clearer, market volatility is likely Notice of Annual General Meeting can be found on to continue, particularly amongst financial stocks.
However, prospects for corporate profits remain reasonable and equity valuations are at fair levels by Shareholders will find a proxy form at the back of historic standards.
The Board is therefore hopeful the Annual Report, and a form of direction is that further gains can be made in the year ahead.
enclosed for those who hold shares through the F&C savings plans.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting are encouraged to complete and return their forms to the WREThomson Companys registrars to ensure that their votes are Chairman 16November2007 represented at the Meeting.
