Fil edit BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 07 08:53 Page 4 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Chairmans Statement Your Company has continued to perform well over the past year.
Our Net Asset Value NAV per share increased by 17.5% compared with an increase of 15.9% in our benchmark, the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index, 11.6% in the MSCI World Index and 12.2% in the FTSE All Share Index, all on a total return basis.
Over five years the NAV total return per share has grown by 197%, making your Company the best performer in our peer group in the period.
The past year has been challenging in terms of both volatility of markets and the pricing of risk.
We have taken advantage of this volatility to bank profits on Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman investments on which we felt that discounts had narrowed and value had been recognised in the markets.
We have been willing to hold cash until markets weakened allowing us to buy back into situations we have identified as offering long term value Over five years for Shareholders and indeed on occasion back into investments previously held in our portfolio.
As a result we believe that the underlying discount on our portfolio has the NAV total widened to around 18% storing up future value for our Shareholders.
return per share Our income levels have remained strong, reflecting long term growth in dividends has grown by from our invested companies and income from our liquid holdings.
Consequently we are recommending an increase in the final dividend to 3.6p per share 2006: 3.2p 197%, making which, together with the interim dividend of 1.4p per share 2006: 0.8p, brings the total ordinary dividends for the year to 5.0p against 4.0p last year, more than fulfilling your Company our obligation to distribute at least 85% of our net income to Shareholders by way of dividend.
With income from our liquid holdings still higher than if we were fully the best invested, we are also recommending a special dividend of 0.5p per share 2006: 1.0p.
performer in It has been a feature of the past year that investment trust discounts as a class have our peer group widened.
We have not been immune to this market move and our shares are at a discount of 6.5% at the year end compared with a premium of 3.5% last year.
result for our Shareholders is that all the good NAV growth reported here did not work its way through to the share price.
The Board does consider regularly the premium or discount on the shares.
We have powers to buy in up to 15% of our shares although we have not deemed it appropriate to do so this year.
The increased flexibility which this brings has persuaded us to ask Shareholders to renew this authority and to allow us to hold up to 10% of our outstanding share capital in the form of Treasury shares rather than cancel them on a buy back.
As with our current buy back authority we would only buy in or issue shares if such action enhanced value for all our Shareholders.
I hope you will feel able to support this resolution at the AGM.
Your Boards primary focus has remained on your Companys investments and investment performance in a period when risks have increased.
We have stuck to our Source: JP Morgan Cazenove BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 13 11 07 11:25 Page 5 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 investment philosophy even through periods when value investing has been less favoured in the markets which has to some extent been the case during the past year.
Your Board also regularly reviews wider areas of risk and our policies on areas such as gearing, hedging, geographical and sectoral distribution of assets.
We also seek to ensure that there are proper control systems in place to safeguard your funds and that the performance of our service providers meets the necessary standards.
There is further detail on both these areas later in this Report.
John Pennink and the team at Asset Value Investors have had responsibility for managing your Company during my period as Chairman over the past five years.
The record speaks for itself.
1,000 invested then would now be worth 2,969 while your dividends have increased from 1.9p per share to 5.5p.
In John we have a consistently strong performer with great market focus and understanding and a long term commitment to our investment philosophy.
Consequently we had no hesitation in renewing our management contract with Asset Value Investors.
In June 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled that investment management fees charged to Investment Trusts should be exempt from VAT.
HM Revenue and Customs accepted this verdict in early November.
Your Company has taken appropriate steps with regard to claiming Back VAT and is in the process of quantifying these claims and the impact they may have on the management contract between your Company and Asset Value Investors.
As of the date of these Accounts we have not recognised any asset in respect of such claims which we consider are unlikely to have a material impact on our NAV.
We shall update Shareholders when the outcome is clearer.
As Chairman, I believe we have a strong, well diversified Board and that all of its members contribute to the tone and balance of our meetings incisively and thoughtfully.
I have decided to stand down this year after 12 years on the Board, the last five as Chairman.
My fellow directors were unanimous in identifying Strone Macpherson as the best candidate to take over as Chairman.
I am delighted he has accepted the Boards invitation to become Chairman following completion of the AGM.
Given his wealth of international experience in industry and the City I believe he will do an outstanding job for your Company.
John May is up for re-election this year and I strongly support his re-election.
My thanks to all Board members for their efforts and indeed friendship.
It has all passed too quickly.
For the future we remain cautious.
The drying up of liquidity in the financial markets, as assets are re-priced to reflect more accurately underlying risk, continues to pose a real threat to our financial system and from there into the world economy more widely.
However, opportunities arise from such dislocations and I am confident British Empire will continue to recognise such opportunities for you, our investors.
As this will be my last chance to host you at a buffet lunch after our AGM I hope as many as possible will be able to join us after the AGM.
If you would like to attend please reply on the enclosed card.
Finally may I wish British Empire and all its Shareholders continuing prosperity and success.
Iain Samuel Robertson CBE Chairman 12 November 2007 5
