Chairmans statement 11% Net asset value per share increase over the year, compared with an 8% increase in the FTSE All-Share 124% Share price total return outperformance against the FTSE All-Share Total Return over five years Results Elective special dividend Our fourth year as an investment trust has again seen the growth in In our interim statement I reported that in June 2006 we offered our net asset value per share outpace that of the FTSE All-Share shareholders the option of participating in a return of funds of up to index, although the 11% uplift and 3% outperformance were lower 128m by way of an elective special dividend on a broadly one for than the 34% and 10% achieved respectively last year.
Nonetheless ten basis, with the shares so elected being cancelled for nil our long established strategy of acquiring significant, but usually consideration through a Court approved reduction of capital.
The minority, stakes in promising listed and unlisted companies and dividend was struck at a 3% discount to the underlying NAV per working with proven managements to add shareholder value over share on the designated date and the resultant dividend of the longer term has enabled us to continue to record 1902.17 pence per share was taken up on 84.4% of the outperformance against our benchmark FTSE All-Share Total Return 6,410,579 shares eligible, resulting in a payout of 102.9m.
index over five and ten years of 124% and 194% respectively.
Portfolio Share price and discount Details of the changes in our portfolio are provided in the Chief Our share price rose by 4% over the year from 1980 pence to Executives statement and the further pages which follow.
With 2066 pence with the increase muted by a widening of the share prices generally high, we remain selective in our investment activity price discount from less than 4% to just over 9% notwithstanding but have continued to invest where we see good opportunities at the 11% increase in underlying net asset value per share.
During the year we invested 290m in new and cautioned in past years that it would prove challenging to continue follow-on opportunities and realised 317m, the main element of to reduce the share price discount and that our share price is not which was the 131m divestment of our remaining and long ultimately within our control.
The year just past has borne this out.
standing investment in Kerzner International in September last year However we are mindful that a wider share price discount affects to a management buyout led by the Kerzner family.
This has proved shareholder value and we have used our authority to buy in our an excellent investment since we took our initial stake in 1994, own shares when it was in the interest of our shareholders for us giving a compound annual return of 15% over the period, but we to do so, as detailed in the Chief Executives statement.
were all much saddened by the death of Butch Kerzner, the chief executive and architect of the buyout, who died in a helicopter Forty year dividend record accident just after the transaction.
We are pleased to propose an increase of 5.4% in the final dividend We have continued to increase our investment activity in Asia, to 21.6 pence per share from 20.5 pence last time, making a total and predominantly in India, where we believe that there are dividend for the full year of 31.1 pence representing a 5.1% increase substantial opportunities for the longer term investor prepared to over last year and costing 18m.
This marks a forty year record of develop relationships with management teams, often founding successive annual dividend increases over which period we calculate families, who are familiar with the local business environment.
that our annual dividends per share have increased by a factor of over 45 times as against a factor of 12 times for inflation.
Such dividends will have aggregated to an equivalent of 5.36 per share and have been augmented by special dividends paid in 1997 and 2000 totalling 1 per share.
There have also been opportunities for shareholders to opt for two elective special dividends.
It is also of interest that forty years ago our equivalent share price was 15p.
02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 Peter Buckley We have continued to increase our Chairman investment activity in Asia.
Liquidity Staff Notwithstanding the 103m return of funds to shareholders We rely on a relatively small but dedicated management team who described above, we still held net liquid funds of 109m at the make judgements on and process our various investments.
They do year end compared with 180m last year.
This is a function of the this against the rising tide of rules and regulations to which I have underlying dynamic of our investment activity and, given our already referred and which increasingly burden the corporate concern about the high prices of businesses, is a sensible position sector.
I would like to thank them all on behalf of shareholders for when seeking to achieve an absolute return for shareholders over their diligent and unstinting efforts.
Outlook Economic and political background After a strong run in the market place, particularly in the mid-cap I have habitually made reference to the current economic and sector, there are signs of more volatility.
This affects the pricing political background as it can have a substantive effect on our of new opportunities, but our refusal to join auction processes, business.
Inflation is rising faster than officially acknowledged and coupled with our longer term approach and access to liquidity, higher interest rates have consequently been introduced.
should enable us to take advantage of corrections in the market Government spending has increased sharply for little identifiable for the longer term benefit of shareholders.
benefit, and has been accompanied by an unwelcome requirement for higher taxes.
It surprises us, therefore, that our economy has remained stable.
Many in the business community are aghast at the relentless increase in new and costly legislation but seem impotent to stem the flow.
The Burdens Barometer for the increase in costs for business from new legislation since 1998, independently Peter Buckley calculated for the British Chambers of Commerce, has now risen Chairman to over 55bn, the majority of which is to comply with the whim of the unaccountable bureaucracy in Brussels.
Our retiring Prime Minister had promised a referendum if the powers of Brussels were to be extended through a revised constitution and whilst a disguised version of this seems an imminent prospect, the promised referendum is being brushed aside.
However this is entirely consistent with the lack of integrity and growing incompetence of the present Government and it is difficult to believe that the forthcoming change of prime minister will herald the changes which are so urgently needed.
It is therefore important to encourage a credible opposition.
It is for this reason that we have decided to ask our shareholders for permission to enable us to make a contribution of up to 60,000 to the Conservative Party so that it can be better equipped to form an alternative government.
To this end it is important to build its resource especially in marginal seats if a change from this high spend and low delivery Government is to become a reality.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 03
