CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our performance Details of the year are set out in the operational and financial reviews which follow, but I am pleased to report that our net assets per share NAV increased by 37.4% to 2065p, compared to a 2.0% increase in the FTSE All-Share Index over the same period.
Profits before tax increased to 21.0 million compared to 20.6 million last year.
We invested 90.5 million in the year of which 73.5 million was invested alongside the Candover 2005 Fund in four new investments, namely the buyouts of the luxury yacht manufacturer Ferretti: the theme park operator Parques Reunidos: the manufacturer of fall protection equipment, Capital Safety Group: and the French tax advisory and cost reduction business, Alma Consulting Group.
Since the year-end an investment has been made in Stork, a Dutch engineering conglomerate.
Realisations and refinancings generated 162.4 million of proceeds during the year.
We sold our investments in Vetco, Thule, Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad Corporation, Bureau van Dijk and Get.
In addition, Wellstream was listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Our year-end cash balance net of borrowings was 114.2 million as against 29.7 million at the end of the previous year, driven by our strong realisations.
Candover is making more active use of its balance sheet and consequently, as previously reported, we have raised 150.0 million in debt finance from a US private placement bond issue as part of our preparations for the Candover 2008 Fund.
Of this finance, 120.0 million was received in 2007, with the remainder received after the year-end.
Gerry Grimstone Chairman The strength of the euro against the pound in the second half of the year In what has been a turbulent time for financial markets, benefited the valuation of our portfolio and, combined with movements on our cash Candover has continued to perform strongly throughout portfolio net of debt, added about 78.0p the year.
We have enjoyed record returns from realisations to our NAV.
As a matter of policy, we see and good investment opportunities have continued to be no need to hedge our currency exposures, but 120.0 million of our debt financing has sourced across our European network.
been swapped into floating rate euros to match our euro-denominated commitment alongside the funds.
Our environment Although 2007 was another record year for European buyouts, deal volumes in the second half of 2007 were significantly affected by the credit slowdown resulting from the US sub-prime mortgage crisis.
The impact was felt most strongly at the largest end of the buyout market, as the lack of availability of debt finance considerably lowered levels of activity.
Our part of the market has not been as badly affected and we are still able to do deals.
08 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Realistically, however, 2008 is likely to be a thank Stephen very much for his great Dividends quieter year than 2007. contribution to the Company for over The Board is recommending a final 25 years.
dividend of 40.0p per share 36.0p in Private equity remained in the public 2006, making a dividend payable for the spotlight during 2007, with intense Lord Jay of Ewelme was appointed as a year of 60.0p per share 54.0p in 2006, an media scrutiny focusing on taxation and non-executive director with effect from increase of 11.1%.
We expect to maintain transparency issues.
During the year, the 1st January, 2008 and we are delighted a progressive dividend policy but this will British Venture Capital Association BVCA to welcome him on to the Board.
Lord Jay depend, of course, on the underlying asked Sir David Walker to undertake an is a former Permanent Under-Secretary revenue that is generated by our independent review of the adequacy of at the Foreign Office and Head of the investments.
disclosure and transparency in the private Diplomatic Service, having previously equity industry.
The Guidelines resulting served as British Ambassador to France.
Outlook from that review were published in His distinguished civil service career and 2008 will be a challenging environment in November.
The Guidelines, which are his subsequent commercial experience which to operate.
The tight credit market a voluntary set of rules intended to be give him unrivalled insight and expertise in conditions show no sign of slackening, implemented on a comply or explain international affairs which will be invaluable and this will inevitably have an impact on basis, require greater disclosure by large to Candover as we develop our business both the pricing of transactions and the private equity firms and their portfolio further.
overall level of activity in the buyout companies, and industry-wide data market.
As I indicated at the half year, collection and dissemination.
In short, I am pleased to say that Nicholas Jones will lower debt multiples may result in lower we welcome these initiatives and we will be joining the Board as from 14th April, prices and this may cause vendors, comply in full.
Nicholas is Vice Chairman of Lazard including Candover, to delay selling in London and one of the most experienced businesses until a recovery is seen in Candover, because of its listed status, bankers in the City.
His skills, knowledge the market.
This is likely to mean that already makes much greater public and experience will add great value to the record levels of realisations enjoyed disclosure regarding its investments the Board.
in 2007 will not be a feature of 2008. than most private equity firms.
We will be placing greater emphasis on corporate Jimmy West, who has been on the Board However, history has shown that a responsibility going forward and we for over 20 years, will be stepping down at downturn in the markets can prove to discuss this, and our obligations under the AGM and will be succeeded as Senior be a good time for investing.
Candover the Guidelines, more fully in our Corporate Independent Director by Antony Hichens.
has a long track record of investing Responsibility report on page 10. through market cycles and over the We have recently announced that we have past 28 years our returns have been The Candover 2008 Fund recruited Jamie Paton to open our first remarkably consistent.
We enjoy an The Candover 2005 Fund is now 72% office in Asia.
Jamie, who previously spent excellent reputation within the banking committed and Candover Partners more than seven years in Hong Kong community in terms of returning debt Limited has therefore commenced establishing 3is North Asian business, will capital, and this should ensure we are marketing the Candover 2008 Fund with a initially be based in Hong Kong while we well positioned to obtain financing when target of 5.0 billion.
The objectives, scope evaluate options in the region.
We already we find suitable transactions.
and principal terms of this new Fund are have extensive contacts and links in Asia expected to be essentially the same through our European portfolio and by Candover has always put a strong focus as those of the Candover 2005 Fund.
working with someone as experienced in on helping management improve the the region as Jamie, we are confident that operational performance of our portfolio Under the terms of a coinvestment we can properly investigate the market companies and this is one of the ways agreement, Candover Investments plc potential.
Its a toe in the water for us, in a in which we make our money.
So even will be committing 1.0 billion to the part of the world which we believe has the though deal activity may be less, I have Fund, and dependent on the overall potential to develop excellent returns for no doubt that the development of the performance of the Fund, will be entitled us in the years ahead.
portfolio will continue to create value to between 2% and 5% of any profit during 2008. made by that Fund, depending on the We have spent some considerable time investment multiple achieved by the Fund.
reviewing how our business could develop The winners in these markets will be These are the same terms as applied for using the private equity skills that we those players that continue to focus the Candover 2005 Fund.
have, and Candover Asia is the first on the fundamentals, as we do at initiative to be pursued.
Finding and backing high Our people and operations continue to review other initiatives during quality management teams using an We have previously reported that Nico the forthcoming year and if we think they investment discipline we have refined Lethbridge, who had been on the Board of can enhance shareholder value, we wont over the years has allowed us to deliver Candover since January 2003, died on hesitate to pursue them.
I emphasise, satisfactory returns to shareholders.
16th August, 2007 following an accidental however, that our European buyout We confidently expect this to continue.
Nico was a tremendous asset to us business will remain our core focus.
During the year, we strengthened our During the year, Stephen Curran, who pan-European buyout team, hiring retired as Chairman of Candover in 2006, two new directors and six investment stepped down from his position as a managers.
We now have 39 professionals Gerry Grimstone non-executive director.
Stephen was based in our four European offices, and Chairman one of the original architects of Candover, in addition to our investment team, 31st March, 2008 and together with Roger Brooke, our Life have specialists focusing on origination, President, established the foundations portfolio management and debt financing.
upon which our success has been built.
I believe that we have one of the strongest On behalf of Candover, I would like to teams in the private equity industry.
