20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 3 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 3 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that our net asset value total return for the year to 30 June 2007 was 21.0%, an outperformance of our benchmark, which itself was materially ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index.
We have increased our dividend by 10.0% and Simon fide Zoete have forecast a further increase of 10.3% for the current year.
Directors Review 6-7 Chairmans Statement The companies in which we are invested have delivered, on average, earnings and 2-3 Objectives and Performance 8 Highlights of the Year dividends that have come in above market expectations.
4-5 Directors and Management 9 Growth in Net Asset Value and Share Price Performance Savings Over the course of the twelve months, City of London City of London sets out to be an attractive and straightforward outperformed its benchmark by 0.7%, which in turn long-term savings vehicle for private investors.
As well as outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 1.9%.
Both gearing investing directly, shares can be purchased through the and stock selection were positive contributors.
The overweight Itshenderson products the Share Plan and ISA or the Alliance position relative to the benchmark in real estate stocks, which Trust Savings including for pensions.
was a significant contributor to outperformance in the first half of Outlook the period under review, was a negative in the second half.
Since the year end, markets have become more volatile and have Despite exposure being reduced to real estate stocks with some fallen back.
This change of sentiment stems from concerns about large profits realised, the above average position relative to the the mortgage market in the United States, the level of risk benchmark was the most important cause of the second half adopted by the banks by lending on historically tight terms and giving back some of the gains relative to the benchmark.
the opaque nature of hedge funds.
Credit may be scarcer in the City of Londons share price discount to net asset value with debt future and a reduced appetite for risk could result.
There is much at market value increased from 6.9% to 10.9% over the year, talk of the contagion effect of this global credit crunch and it will which was similar to the trend experienced by many other probably take time for the wider ramifications and effect on the investment trusts.
At the time of writing, the discount has consumer to become clear.
Having said all of this, I am confident narrowed to 6.6%.
that City of Londons relatively defensive portfolio is well positioned and, with a low level of gearing, we are well placed to Earnings and Dividends take advantage of the opportunities that often arise from volatility Revenue return per share was 11.59p, an increase of 13.9% in markets and sectors.
We are focused on companies that have reflecting another strong year for UK dividend growth.
A fourth good cash flow from high quality businesses that can deliver the interim dividend of 2.62p will be paid on 31 August 2007, dividend growth that is so important to our shareholders.
making a total for the year of 10.30p, an increase of 10.0% over Although there may be volatility, this brings with it opportunities the previous year.
This is the forty-first consecutive year that City for our investment management team to perform.
Now that the of London has increased its dividend, the longest record of any market has pulled back, the downside risk has been reduced.
The Board The minimum quarterly dividend for the year ahead will be After serving ten years as a director, Mark Nicholls has decided 2.84p, a further minimum increase of 10.3% on an annual not to stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The quarterly rate will next be considered when the third would like to thank Mark for his wise counsel and most valuable interim dividend is declared in March 2008, by which time the contribution to the Company.
Board will be able to assess better the trend in income performance of the portfolio.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting on Expenses Wednesday 10 October 2007 at 4 Broadgate, London EC2M The investment management fee and other non interest expenses 2DA.
The meeting will start at 3.00pm and will include a were around 0.42% of the Companys average assets for the year presentation from the Portfolio Manager.
Tea and light which is a slight decline from 0.44% last year.
No performance refreshments will be provided.
fee was paid to our Investment Manager, Henderson Global Investors, because the periods outperformance did not exceed Simon fide Zoete the previous years underperformance.
