Chairmans Statement I am pleased to present Shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts of Dexion Absolute Limited for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Company recently reached its fifth anniversary since its launch in December 2002.
Looking back to that time, a total of 34 million was raised in extremely difficult market conditions and the London listed fund of hedge funds sector represented approximately 480 million in aggregate assets.
As at the date of this report, the Companys assets have risen to approximately 1.45 billion with a global investor base across four different share classes, which is a remarkable achievement.
The Company is now the largest listed closed-ended hedge fund product globally, notwithstanding that the sector has seen considerable development in recent years, with net assets attributable to London listed fund of hedge funds growing to approximately 5.2 billion as at the date of this statement.
The Companys shares have achieved an annualised NAV return of 10.29% from inception to 31 December 2007, with volatility of just 3.29%.
Investors in the shares at inception have seen a 68.25% rise in the market value of their investment over the Companys initial five year period.
The Company has achieved its returns with significantly lower volatility than broad equity indices and correspondingly smaller drawdowns.
The Companys investment approach and focus on absolute returns with low volatility and independent of equity market direction appears to be increasingly attractive to investors.
In November 2007, in response to continued existing and new investor demand, the Company completed its largest capital raising to date, raising 463.0 million of new monies before expenses through a multicurrency issue of C shares, the net proceeds of which were substantially invested, or committed to be invested, on 1 January 2008.
The issue, which was oversubscribed, was well supported by a substantial number of existing shareholders but, in addition, attracted a broad range of new institutional and private wealth management clients from an increasingly wide range of jurisdictions globally.
Over 2007, the net asset value of the Companys shares appreciated from 141.57p to 160.30p, a rise of 13.23% while the assets attributable to the US dollar, Euro, and A$ shares appreciated by 12.99%, 11.38% and 13.59% respectively.
The market price of the Companys shares rose by 14.07% over the period and the Companys US$, Euro, and A$ shares rose by 14.20%, 12.18% and 18.65% respectively.
Strong net asset value performance and ongoing secondary market demand saw all four share classes trade at a premium to net asset value for almost all of the period under review.
Coming into 2008, the Companys shares continued to perform strongly with the shares of each class trading at a significant premium to NAV, notwithstanding prevailing volatile market conditions.
In response to significant interest in the Companys shares from a range of investors, the Company placed 9.99% of each class of its ordinary shares by way of an institutional book-building process completed in February 2008.
This placing, which was also oversubscribed, raised 134.2 million of new monies before expenses which was invested, or committed to be invested, on 3 March 2008.
Global financial markets began 2007 on strong footing supported by record corporate earnings reports, moderate inflation, ample liquidity, and vigorous corporate activity in the U. S. and in Europe.
As the year progressed, however, cracks soon appeared as several mortgage companies in the U. S. were forced to repurchase non-performing mortgages that had been sold to securitisation firms, crippling balance sheets in that industry and compelling major players to seek bankruptcy protection or strategic partners.
These events unfolded in February and marked the start of a year-long deterioration of the global financials sector.
Although financial markets were initially resilient to these events, pressures mounted throughout the second and third quarters as financial institutions tightened credit standards and housing fundamentals deteriorated, first in the U. S. and later in Europe, while rising energy costs placed additional stress on global consumers and producers.
Meanwhile, some investors turned their attention to the commodity markets, particularly energy, agricultural, and precious metals, fueling large rallies as investors aggressively pursued returns.
In August, fresh doubts over the solvency of structured investment vehicles froze the commercial paper market, prompting investors to reduce leverage and exposure to risky assets.
Monetary policymakers responded decisively, injecting considerable liquidity into the banking system.
Despite mounting stresses, equities in developing markets outperformed developed markets as a result of investors' expectations that nascent domestic demand would insulate those economies from events in developed markets.
As the year came to a close, major write-downs by financial institutions, mounting inflationary pressures, and concerns over a slowdown in the U. S. economy contributed to heightened 2 Chairmans Statement continued volatility levels and placed downward pressure on financial markets worldwide.
As detailed on pages 4 to 9 in the Managers Report, all of the hedge fund strategies in which the Company invests were profitable over the period with a significant contribution coming from the Companys long short equities and macro managers.
Notwithstanding the difficult start to trading in 2008, the Companys Investment Adviser believes that the increased levels of volatility now present in markets should offer opportunities for many of the Companys underlying managers to generate attractive returns.
In response to feedback from investors, the Company is proposing that a number of amendments should be made to its articles of association at its Annual General Meeting to, amongst other things, vary the method of calculation of the Companys discount floor provision from a calendar year basis to a rolling 12 month basis, to increase the frequency of conversions between classes from semi-annually to quarterly and, in order to continue to remain eligible for inclusion in certain financial market indices, to include preemptive rights for Shareholders in respect of all issues of new Shares for cash in respect of which Shareholder consent will further be sought to disapply such pre-emption rights.
A circular setting out details of those changes and which contains the notice of Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
I look forward to welcoming Shareholders to the Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be held at the Companys registered office at 1, Le Truchot, St. Peter Port, Guernsey at 9.30 am on Monday, 16 June 2008.
